ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9671	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 111 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Gašo Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic, Velimir Stanojevic and (before noon)Slavoljub Matic and Brance Stojanović. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE COUNTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (addition) The Word has a National MP, Bozidar Koprivica, and let the MP Velimir Simonović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9672	Dear People's MPs, today there is a law on citizenship, one of the basic system laws, and citizenship, by its legal nature, is a status that allows every citizen to enjoy civil rights as a citizen, but on the other hand, and obliges the country to provide the individual – a citizen with full protection. The organisation of citizenship should be the most important task, given the achievement of the fundamental rights that belong to the citizen of a country. So citizenship is one of the basic human and civil rights, so I thought this matter could be arranged far better. Despite the speakers' praises that the law is good, certain provisions of the law should be amended through amendments submitted by the SRS, because there are certain ambiguities in the regulation, acquisition and termination of citizenship. Also, certain provisions of foreign citizenship are not clear enough, nor precise, so they should be improved in the end line through the proposed amendments submitted by the SRS. Citizens of another member of the state community, thought to be Montenegro, should arrive, according to automation, citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, provided they have residence in Serbia. I don't see why we should apply. A member of the Serb people, wherever he is, should, by automated means, gain the right to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of his residence, wherever he was and whose citizenship he had. The important thing is that he is a member of the Serbian people. Article 29 doesn't specify exactly what security reasons these are, Mr. Minister. Therefore, they should be taxed, if any, in order to allow discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The article 41st is completely unclear, confusing, and talks about refusing to claim citizenship, although the conditions laid down by this law are met, "if the body assesses that there are reasons of interest for the Republic of Serbia" for which it refuses citizenship, and does not state what reasons and interests are. Also, in Article 44, which provides for a solution to determine nationality, it is necessary to set a deadline, given that the procedure under this law is urgent. I also believe that the books of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which are being led, should not be lifted so quickly. They should exclusively serve to enroll in the book of citizens, while the solution to do so in the parent books is not an adequate or appropriate solution. The SRS has submitted more amendments, with the intention of improving the text of the law, to make its norms more comprehensive and clearer. Finally, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say, once the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is acquired, then the state of Serbia is obliged to provide its citizens with full protection. Is she doing it and is she doing it now? It doesn't and it doesn't work. If there were countries, it would protect basic civil rights and protect its citizens, so our citizens and the greatest sons of Serb gender, heroes and heroes of Serbia, such as Prof. Vojislav Seselj and our generals, would not be darkened in The Hague, but would be protected by the state and in their country they would be exercising their basic human and civil rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9673	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, and let the MP Milan Veselinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9674	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make two or three comments on this bill and start with Article 5. I think that's a good solution, because it says: "Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have foreign citizenship, are considered citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia." I know cases where our citizens who have dual citizenship, say, when they travel, so at the airport, they take our passport, if it suits them because of customs, police, etc., and class is passed on by another passport, if that suits them. That's why I think this is a good solution: when it is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then the citizenship of our country is exclusive. It says here, after all, that we as a state recognize dual citizenship, but here I am a little confused by Article 14. Does this mean that someone would become a citizen if they had to meet all four conditions or one of them, any of them. If it had stood up at the end of the first position – on its request it gets citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if it meets one of the conditions, then it would be quite clear, because if it meets all four conditions, then point 2 follows that we do not recognise dual citizenship. A citizen should give up foreign citizenship if he has it to gain our citizenship. I think we need to discuss this. Whether we are a state that recognises dual citizenship or a state that does not recognise dual citizenship. That's my comment. Another comment concerns article 45, and he's already been spoken of here. Ladies and gentlemen, I've had the opportunity to hear from very respected lawyers many times that there is no right to wrong. Therefore, if someone has acquired citizenship through counterfeiting or fraud, it must be taken away when it is known. The belief that his citizenship will not be taken away from him is not acceptable. I don't think that's allowed in any country, nor are the EU recommendations spoken of by counterpart Nestorovic the other day. It's impossible for someone to get the right to fake data, forgeries, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9675	The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9676	I'd only ask one more sentence to say, if you'll excuse me. So, I have a desire to always speak briefly, so I left that sentence out. You should know, because when someone acquires the citizenship of a country, they gain not only the rights, but also the obligations that arise from that. We have cases of our citizens living abroad in the diaspora that they want to avoid some obligations. They want to be citizens, but they want to avoid military service, etc. It should be clearly indicated: citizenship is obtained by law and also by obligations towards the state. Thank you, Chairman, and thank you to the Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an important legal project ahead of us. In fact, the law on citizenship is one law that should have every state, including the state of Serbia. It is true that this law is based on the very reputation of the state, and there is also a solution to the status of citizens, but it is true that this law is greatly praised yesterday and today. We Serbian radicals believe that this law has a lot of its shortcomings, shortcomings and indeterminateness. The previous speaker said before me, I think of the comment of one member, that there is a lot of inadequacy and uncertainty, which means that amendments of the SRS should be adopted, because they thus improve both the text of this law and the accuracy of the law on citizenship. We know that we also had this law during the SFRJ and the SRJ, we know that these laws resolved the citizenship of Serbs, citizens of Serbia, SRJ. This law resolves the citizenship of the Serbian state, which is inevitable in this case, when the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. the former SFRY, ceased to fall apart, and then the SRJ. So, the inevitable is that Serbs have their citizenship. We know that previous laws have created great problems for citizens, especially our fellow citizens and refugees from the territory of the former republics of the former Yugoslavia, and that these citizens have been treated as second-class citizens. Then, the law was passed in 1994, and he predicted that refugees could acquire SRJ citizenship at the time, yet it was done selectively, partyically, because then the government was afraid that refugees would vote perhaps for that political option or another, which is why it was not done or selectively done. It's good that we heard yesterday that our amendment will be adopted, where a citizen will not have to have his place for 10 years to gain citizenship, and that's a good move to be equal to all citizens who want to have the citizenship of the Serbian state. Here, as I said, there are a lot of ambiguities, inconclusiveness, but it's normal, we've made amendments, and I just want to point out some of these ambiguities. For example, it is said here that the competent ministry will oversee the registration of citizens in the home books, and we know that the parent books are kept at local self-government. Normally local self-government is controlled by other ministries, not the MUP. So, there will be problems immediately when this law is implemented and there will be great confusion again regarding the registrations itself in the citizens' home book. Then, Article 5 is not clear to the end, simply, it is not clear whether this law regulates the status of citizens or gives rise to the right. I think that Article 5 needs to be clarified, i.e. to clarify that it is being completed. Then, in Article 9, it is not well explained what is the application and what is the request. That's one misunderstanding that would have to be corrected. Then, in Article 17, they regulate the right of foreigners to citizenship. There he says that two or three years must be a foreign citizen married to a Serbian citizen, a state of Serbia that has citizenship, in order to gain that citizenship. We know that we have a lot of public figures here, artists who are important to this state of Serbia, and I think this should have been seen differently, not this way, because that's what we're going to be without these respectable and important people for our country. In Article 27, you state there that other Member States, and why they are not specifically said here, a member of Montenegro, means that another country is canceling something, is already a question of what the future predicts and what can happen under this provision. There's been a lot of talk here about article 45 about the annulment of citizenship, and it's pretty vague, and I think this article 45 needs to be deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I would like to say that it would be good for this high house to adopt amendments to the SRS so that this law can make sense and be clear and applicable to every citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9678	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. He's not here. The word has the People's Messenger Lazar Cavic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Donka Banovic has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9679	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honored Ministers, are ahead of us with a bill on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solutions to the new law, which we will declare, not only provide for the facilitated acquisition of citizenship for certain categories of persons, but also enable those who have not been able to resolve this issue at all. This regulation incorporates the solutions of most developed countries, and more importantly abandoned is the principle, one state - one citizenship, which is of particular importance when it comes to people of our origin in the world. The most important newspaper is that it stopped the absoluteism of the residence criteria, which left many citizens of Serbian origin without the possibility of being a formal part of their country. Now a member of the Serb people or of another nation or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who has no residence in its territory, can be admitted to citizenship if it signs a statement. Similarly, emigrants, i.e. those who have moved out of Serbia, intending to live abroad all the time. For them, their descendants and spouses are predicted to become Serbian citizens, if they are 18 years old, if they are not deprived of their ability to work and if they submit and sign a declaration that they consider Serbia as their country. At the same time, Serbia is bringing together members of the Serb people from the former Yugoslavia with this law, regardless of where life's fate took them. Nationality can also be born in another republic of the former SFRY who had citizenship and republic and who, as a fugitive, were exiled and displaced today either abroad or in the Serbian area. The question arises, if the bill is adopted, and it is certain that it will be accepted, how much would Serbia's state get new citizens. Given that the latest census showed that Serbia is facing population depletion, that we are getting smaller, which is due to low birth, which is due to emigration, which due to the denationalisation process, every new citizen should be welcome. It is estimated that after the adoption of this legislative proposal, our country should receive several hundred thousand new citizens. I will set an example of neighbouring Croatia, which gave citizenship to all Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Romania, Vojvodina, as well as to all Croatians in the overseas countries. In this way, about 300,000 people received Croatian citizenship according to a very simple procedure. What is especially to rejoice is the fact that Serbs, who have never had Yugoslav citizenship, want to have it. For example, Serbs in Albania, Hungary, Romania sees Serbia as their country of origin and want to have our citizenship. For example, about 40,000 Serbs live in Macedonia, and last year, despite several thousand applications submitted, only five received our citizenship. There is also an example from Romania that is particularly concerned. Romania's last census said it was Serbs, and only 20,000 on the last census. However, Croatia received 10,000 new members of its nation because Serbian Catholics from Romania, who have felt for centuries for Serbs, since they could not get our Serbian citizenship, received Croatian. So it is not good that the number of Serbs in the countries around them is constantly decreasing. With 600,000 Serbs in Croatia, they fell to 200,000. In Romania, from 30,000 to 20,000, and in Hungary, just over 5,000 Serbs. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of Serbs in Western Europe, but not as a consequence of the birthright but of the emigration from Serbia, thus reducing the number of people in Serbia. Again, the problem is that some 15,000 of our people gave up the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia last year and took the citizenship of the Republic of Austria. So last year we lost an entire city. In order for this to never happen to us again, I suggest we all vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9680	The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milivoje Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9681	Ladies and gentlemen, several times the chairman of the debate was not only during this debate, but before that he warned speakers to stick to the subject, or to talk about the law. I'm going to start a little unusually on the law, not just on this one, but on the law at all. It is known that in all segments of social life, even in nature, there are laws and there are rules. If the law on him is no discussion, it must be respected, and the rules are what can be done anyway. Since I'm an expert in language, I can tell you that in language you have examples that you can do this one way or the other, but there are legally certain examples that need to be implemented. For example, the use of capital letters in personal names, their own names, although I would very much like to write to some peoples in the smallest letters that exist, especially those who have committed aggression on our country, but unfortunately by law I have to write them in a capital letter. I'd like to speak to Mr. Secretary, see if he's busy with something else, there are some possibilities in this law for both. It can't stand in the law - it can stand, it can stop, it can be, it can get, etc. It's got to stand, it's got to stand, it's got to stop, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to be, it's got to Secondly, you're going to allow me another depression, in fact it's not a depression, but it's about this law, to say something about the language-style writing of these laws. With some of my colleagues here, I was talking about how often there are mistakes that can be brought into the law, that is to say, to be interpreted two times or three times, and that is exactly what they say are the gaps in the law, which we Serbs use very skillfully. It's about the use of certain superfluous and unnecessary words, then the interpretation schedule, so I'd like to ask if this assembly has any expert lecturers to correct it in time, that we don't come to the dilemma of what the writer was about to say. That's what we'll talk about later, when there's talk about the amendments we've made to those very mistakes, and there's plenty of them. Since I'm running out of time, I need to refer to the law specifically, and only to some members. I've particularly noticed a confusion, an indiscretion, and I'd like it to be corrected in Article 30. It is said of the termination of citizenship by firing, and that is what we have in gaining citizenship in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Here we have -- if the parents are divorced, then I'm going to quote it, I'm just warning you that it's the most sensitive part of our lives, that's children, especially the children of divorced parents, and it's not legally settled here. You know well that no one chose when, how, where and from whom they would be born. That's what he best said in his song "The Cry of the Mother of Man", Dusan Vasiliev, when he said, "Son, you are the fruit of two silent desires and one unconscious minute." We are all, in fact, the fruit of these two silent desires and one unconscious minute. We have not come to the world in a plan, and if we have already come, we should pay equal attention to everyone, especially to these children, or legally, the opportunity to solve some of their problems in all respects, especially here when it comes to this law. This requires consent in Articles 30 and 2 of the parents, as well as in other members, such as. The 20th and the others, that the second parent gives consent. Well, please, if they could get along, it wouldn't have come to divorce. So their antagonism, or impatience, builds the fate of their offspring. That's why it should legally be decided that a child, here in this article, who belongs to one parent by law, that he decides, because if you look for this one, as he says here, is either an unknown residence, or is deprived of business ability, which is also the wrong structure. No one can be deprived of their business incompetence, but can be commercially capable or incapacitated. Nobody deprives him of that, so he physically incapacitates him. And so on, it says - or parental rights, and still - a request for the release of a child from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will be accepted if it is in the opinion of the competent body of custody in the interests of the child. Now, that's what it stands for. It's okay. But get rid of this -- that another parent gives consent in case of that, at least that's how I think it is. He'll never give it up. I'm telling you that there are examples, since I've worked long hours at school, that after the second class, one parent comes and kidnaps a child, and after the fifth hour, the other one returns it. It's a mess, and all that kid's paying for. So pay special attention here. I'd have a lot to talk about, but the weather won't let me. This law... The minister should listen to this (Minister - I listen very well), well, I'll give you some examples later. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. So, you're going to adopt this law maybe exactly the way it is or with some little corrections. At least make sure you respect the later practice of Articles 38 and 39, where it says - the procedure on requests for the acquisition and termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which is run by the interior ministry, is urgent. Now, this -- it's urgent, to be taken into processing immediately because so far it's been, I know cases, I'm complaining people, they waited a few years for citizenship, so they didn't do anything and they didn't solve it day and day. For what reason, you probably know, that was yesterday spoken of by Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Then there's something similar in the next article, but there's one danger. If you adopt this law, the article 41 has two words - the ministry competent, etc. if it considers that there are reasons in the interest of the Republic, for which a request for the acquisition or termination of citizenship should be refused... Well, what's this -- if you estimate it. Free judgment again. It's not the law again. You know exactly what he can and can't do. What he can't - he can't. So, we're not leaving an appraisal. Now I have to stop, and I was going to talk about the language, and there was a debate on Serbian language yesterday, so I'm going to talk about it more when it comes to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9682	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Milivoje Vukovic, and let Nemanja Sarovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizenship is one of the basic human and civil rights. It is a status that enables an individual to enjoy civil rights and state protection, but is also an element that determines the personal validity of the sovereign state authority and its legal order. So the state has a sovereign right to determine the conditions under which certain persons acquire or lose the right to citizenship. As I said, citizenship is a status that enables an individual to be protected by the state. Is this our country in any condition? I'd say he didn't. For many years now, our country has been unable to provide basic protection to its citizens. These days we saw it in the case of basketball player Milan Gurovic. This is where all state institutions, started by the foreign minister, who, by the way, knows how to invite recruits not to respond to military service, and does not know how to protest the Croatian government, which does not allow our top athlete and representative to perform for his team because of a tattoo on the body. There he also scheduled Partizan as a sports society, which he did not take to protect his player, but embarrassingly agreed to play a game without the best player, only to enlist the leaders of this Gudier League, or perhaps the Croats. That's where we all failed the exam. Because if we don't appreciate ourselves, then what do we expect from others, who would in all ways underestimate us and disrespect us. As Zarko Paspalj said - the Croatian attitude is so untasteful and rude that it doesn't deserve a comment, but we here in Serbia understand everything lightly. This procedure speaks much more of them than of us. Milan's mother Mara said the most painful thing is that Croats can be patriots and love their country, and we whisper that we are Serbs. So I'm asking you if in future, when we cross the border, we're going to be stripped naked to find out that we don't have a tattoo on our body that someone doesn't like, and then by doing that, we're going to have more of our citizens demoted. Can our country protect its citizen, as all serious states in the world do? He would still remain on Article 52, which says, among other things, that citizenship can also be acquired if the citizen had a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for at least ten years. I think this deadline is long and should be shortened. In that case, what about our citizens from Republika Srpska, who were expelled from their hearth during the 1995 Storm. After all, I think this member is too much. It's unnecessary. All this is well regulated by Article 23, with little correction, which we in the SRS have done with the amendment submitted by my colleague, Milovan Radovanovic. Finally, to say about Article 34, one who gives up citizenship should be explicitly forbidden to be able to regain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9684	National MP Nemanja Sarovic is not present, Aleksandar Vukic is not present. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9685	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday when we spoke in the principle debate, we drew attention to this term that exists in Article 4, and even more members of this law. In Article 4, the proposer says that a citizen of another Serbia-Montenegro Member State has equal rights and obligations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as its citizen, except for the electoral right. We, i.e. our colleague Vuceta Toskovic of the SRS, submitted an amendment and suggested that in Article 4, "other countries of Serbia-Montenegro" be replaced by "the Republic of Montenegro". The argument given by the government, which is why it did not accept this amendment, is indeed unconvinced. The government says it does not accept the amendment since the bill used a term taken over from the Constitutional Charter and it is clear which citizen it is. Moreover, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Montenegro, the citizens of that Member State have Montenegrin citizenship, not the citizenship of the Republic of Montenegro. This can formally look like a satisfactory explanation, but the essence of our amendment is something else entirely. The creation of a quasi-state community called Serbia-Montenegro is something that goes to the soul and the current assembly majority, and we want, we from the SRS, even though it is what this community is, that at least the terminology should not be erased from the laws passed in this National Assembly. That's why we think it's completely justified, completely relevant and should be a citizen of the Republic of Montenegro, not a citizen of the other republic. It really does seem to be even more far-fetched, simply raving sound, and that's why we thought, not only in this article, but also in several other members where this term is used, that it would really be appropriate for these amendments of the SRS to be accepted and thus to improve the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9686	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9687	In addition to the amendment that we wanted to correct what Mrs Radeta was talking about, we also wanted to draw attention to the government as a legislator of this law that it's not good that something that stands in the Constitution, or let's say that this Constitutional Charter is some higher legal act than the law, it's not good to prescribe norms. This is the prescribed constitutional code. It has its shape and shape in the Constitutional Charter and that's the same thing, but when it is translated into the laws of the Republic, then it must have another form. The basic objection concerning Article 4 is that you are, in fact, showing that you are going beyond the scope of the matter that needs to be regulated by the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This now belongs to something that is the right that springs from the right of citizenship. This article is not a place of at least two basics in this law. First, you prescribe the Constitutional Charter, then you devalue the constitutional norm and, secondly, which is essentially not supposed to be in this law, because in this way you've practically opened one topic where we can ask you with a lot of rights what's wrong with other rights. You just copied here because of this supplement probably election law, which, in the end, might not be bad. Generally observed, all freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are not related to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are called citizens in the Constitution, but are related to all human beings who live here, even foreigners, etc. This is the basic observation, which you did not draw a clear line in terms of the essence and content of this bill. You put something in here where it doesn't belong. If this were to be accepted, then we could throw into this law some other rights that come from the right of citizenship. To return essentially to this amendment. When the Constitution of the SRJ was also adopted was a fence, so the Republic of the Member was spoken there, so the computer came for a while when it would be under that generic notion covered everything and everything, here you also used a syntagma from the Constitutional Charter, completely unnecessary and incorrectly. The other Member State is the Republic of Montenegro and there is no need to camouflage something that could be synonym. We have submitted several amendments, probably in five-six places this same appears, there is no need for each member to explain it, but here you should make it clear that it is the Republic of Montenegro, precisely because of that provision that practically indicates that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia could not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and the state union and at the same time the citizenship of the Republic of Montenegro and the state union. We have indicated in the principle debate, not so much a problem in understanding the promoters. I know you share this opinion, too, but the problem is that on the other hand, I have to say, there is DPS, their authority and their willingness and their willingness that what they consider to represent some citizens, to protect their rights, they are protected as intercessors in the entire territory of the state community. You will see when the tax policy issue is raised and there is an analogy and comparison between the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia regarding the rights that some citizens have. I hope no one misunderstood what I'm saying. What I'm saying is not in the function of separation, but in the function of seeing, to focus and to make it impossible for someone to be more equal. Equality means equality in rights. Try to find a way to prevent some abuses that can come. It's very bad when these abuses occur on the issue of citizenship. That is why it is better to accept this amendment, because then there are no syntagmas, there are no other entanglements, there are no other words to be used, but clearly said - another Member State is the Republic of Montenegro. We shouldn't be ashamed, it's written in the Constitutional Charter. Those who created the Constitutional Charter, that's how they imagined the state union. That's our reality you put us in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9688	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you are, People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9689	Dear Members of the People, my esteemed colleague from the SRS Srdjo Komazec has submitted an amendment to Article 7(1) of point 3), 4) and 5 of the citizenship law, which suggests that "other Member States" be replaced by the words "Republic of Montenegro". Here my esteemed colleagues Krasic and Verica Radeta have said the essence, that is, of what has led the SRS MPs to propose such a proposal. I guess you all know that this other state union is Montenegro. Why do you use it in an ugly, even persuasive sense? The way you put it, it's not clear which state community it's about. I think the amendment was founded and that it should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9690	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9691	The previous speaker said that maybe even the dirty thing we did, I'm just going to answer one question, that's the wording of the Montenegrin law. The other thing, it seems to me that this fully uses the term of the Constitutional Charter, no matter who thinks of it, but the Constitutional Charter is one of the attempts to preserve one people in two territories. If, completely politically, outside of this law, I am saying, I think the term "Member State" is much better and in a broader political sense means community, rather than using what you said, although it is quite true what you said, but in any case this gives one atmosphere, if not, then future growing relations and future closer integration between Serbia and Montenegro, or, if you will, between Member States.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9692	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mit Avramov. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you were here all day in the hall with us and I had the impression that you were closely following what the MPs were saying about the bill's proposal, and since we got the government's opinion on our amendments this morning, and the government, I see by date, had a session yesterday, I guess you weren't at that session, because I didn't hear that some government session was held late last night, because you only do that when you influence the Securities Committee. If you had been to that session, I am convinced that you would accept this amendment submitted by Natasa Jovanovic to the 11th law. I will read the 3rd position to which the amendment applies: "The request under Article 2. (and Article 2 is a request for the entry of adopters under Article 1 into the register of nationals by the adoption - citizen of the Republic of Serbia) of this member may be submitted by the adoption of more than 18 years of age until the 23rd year of life. "Dear Jocic, from the scene: We accept. Do you accept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9694	The amendment has been accepted. Since the Justice Committee has not accepted this amendment, it is not an integral part of the law, but will vote on it in the voting day. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9695	Come on, Mr. Minister, to convince you to accept this amendment and then you'll have a solid law. I have made an amendment to Article 13 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Article 13 speaks of the acquisition of citizenship by birth in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In point 1, he says: "The child was born or found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia (it means) that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is achieved by birth if both parents are unknown or unknown, or without citizenship, or if the child is without citizenship. "The proposal is to say "or if the child is without citizenship" is deleted, because the previous text of attitude 1 applies to a child without citizenship and it is unnecessary to stress this in particular, because nothing new is said with these few words, and the objective of the amendment is to regulate the law, to be legally-technically arranged, clear, understandable, concise and law should not contain excess words because of simpler and easier interpretation of the law. The government has explained why it refuses the amendment - the amendment is not accepted because it is a commitment arising from the European Convention on Citizenship. In fact, there are various systems in the world for the acquisition of citizenship from the moment of birth, origin or birth on the territory of a country, so it can happen that they find what was born or found on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, none of these grounds acquire citizenship from birth and thus become a stateless person. This argument of yours is precisely in favor of our amendment, because a child born or found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is born if both parents are unknown or unknown. He's an automatic child without citizenship, and there's no need to add these words. For purely legal and technical reasons, I suggest that this amendment be adopted as well. The essence of the law doesn't touch.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9696	Thank you. Minister Dragan Jocic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9697	Dear Radeta, you have well-analyzed this member, but there is one possibility that a child born in our territory will be left without citizenship. What if the child who was born here and both his parents were familiar and both parents were American citizens? It couldn't possibly get American citizenship, because the principle in America is yus salt, meaning not the principle of birth on the territory of yus sanguinis the new type, but yus salt, which means that the child actually gets citizenship if it's born on the territory of a particular country. This solution also covered this situation, and that is why we are calling for the Convention on Citizenship, so that everyone can have citizenship. That's the only reason we're covering all the cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9698	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9699	It's very simple and simple: the idea that was born here, his parents are unknown or his parents are without citizenship, is a stateless person, so in the first place you repeat the same thing twice. Okay, you've made your point about that. As for the amendment submitted by Mr Petar Jojic, I will explain that amendment to you in a concrete example. You stated here: a child born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a situation of the first attitude, without citizenship are parents, or unknown parents, or foreign citizenship, etc. Now he says "the child can stop the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if by the age of 18 it is determined that both parents are nationals of another Member State (we say the Republic of Montenegro) or foreign nationals". This is where you tie it to your parent's request. So, at the time the baby was born, you didn't know the citizenship of your parents. In the meantime, that question has been resolved. Whether they have received citizenship or have subsequently torn their citizenship, which is not the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, from the perspective of this member does not matter. We ask by amendment that, by automation, and a child who has underage stopped our citizenship. For what? We will have an abnormal situation: the child was born here, the parents deliberately hid their citizenship so that the child would not get that second citizenship, and when they achieved the right of citizenship of the child to Serbian citizenship, what as a Serbian citizen uses those rights, and after a few years the parents are foreigners, that child respects and benefits complete rights, and his parents are not our citizens and do not want to be our citizens. We just want to prevent abuse by this amendment, because as far as we can estimate, our country is not in any ordinary procedure, so to speak, nor is it possible for regular citizens to achieve all the rights that are prescribed. So, the question of citizenship, in this case, don't just view it as a right, but look at it a little wider and what rights stem from the right of citizenship: education, free treatment, etc. And if I don't talk about obligations, so we don't get into a situation where rights are used, and we're rich in that experience, based on what's going on and what's going on in Kosovo and Metohija, it means when it's supposed to be used, then I'm a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and when there's a commitment, I'm not, I'm a stranger. So, you take this amendment to Mr. Peter Jojic as an amendment that helps the state prevents the abuse of the right to citizenship. I fully understand the government, which in the second sentence of Section 3 wrote – "from the day of delivery of the solution". What do we do if someone avoids, goes abroad and won't take the decision for three years that his citizenship has stopped? Of course, we're talking about a child's situation up to the age of 18. Practically, it prevents the solution from taking effect, and during that time in the diplomatic and consular representations of Serbia-Montenegro abroad, it uses all the rights that exist, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. That is the only reason why we have submitted this amendment, to draw your attention that this solution that you have stated in Article 13(3) enables the abuse of the right of citizenship, and this is how we want to introduce order. I have to tell you that this is not contrary to any of these three conventions that regulate the right of citizenship, because the state is authorized to protect its interests in the event of the abuse of this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9700	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9701	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment to Article 14(1) of the Law on Citizenship by saying that it is "not deprived of its business capacity" by replacing it with the words "business capable". Therefore, in citing the conditions that a stranger needs to meet in order to be admitted to citizenship, it should not go away and should not be based on conditions to be met, not on those that do not need to be met. The government's reasoning cannot be accepted and legally does not stand so. In fact, a full - time person is a business capable, so it is business-worthy until he is deprived of his ability to do business. So, this amendment improves the legal norm, the solution is rational and acceptable. Paragraph 1 (1) would read: “If he had turned 18 and had been able to do business. ” So clear and precise. This amendment would improve the legal norm. The solution is rational and acceptable, clearly, and I ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9702	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9703	Minister, in Article 14 paragraph 1(2), where he is to submit proof that he will receive his discharge, this is already contained. You do not need to rewrite what is in point 2 of point 2. You just turned from positive to negative, from negative to positive. It's exactly the same. You say here now – what is proven. That's the same thing. In some of your instructions, you can say - as proof that someone will be granted a discharge from foreign citizenship, if this is a prior condition that needs to be met in the reception of our citizenship, use the German certificate, where it is said - if Serbia wants to accept it into citizenship, we will priorly fire it, etc. This is not a matter that should stand in law, so before this is a point 2), you repeat. Secondly, I hope you understand Mr. Koprivic, it refers to the previous amendment, but it is the same member. You see, everything is presummated that they're commercially capable. The loss of business capacity shall be demonstrated by an appropriate act. Is it our interest to liberalize the reception of our citizenship so much that, God forbid, we get business incompetent persons? We have to protect our interests. We cannot prove our openness to Europe and the world by receiving everyone into citizenship. Second of all, he says, "He's not been deprived of his ability to do business." Who takes away his business ability, is our authority or other people's power? We're here on the matter of admission, admission to citizenship, he needs to bring some evidence to get into citizenship. What do we accept as evidence? Foreign document or our document? Maybe he's out of business, and he can provide us with some kind of document that he's healthy, that he has health skills and that he can drive a vehicle. In that sense, Mr. Koprivica has submitted an amendment, to draw your attention to the fact that in this excessive openness, liberalization of conditions does not fall into another extreme. There are possible abuses here. I'm just gonna remind you, you do, by duty, you know, sometimes citizenship passports sold for two, three, four, five or six thousand marks, as proof that someone was a fan of a team and so fled abroad. It is funny, and besides, you're having this affair in Germany with this consul.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9704	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9705	In the first position of Article 18, the proposer says: "The emigrant and his progeny can be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if they have turned 18 and have not been deprived of their business ability and if they submit a written statement that the Republic of Serbia considers their country. "The amendment of Vojislav Milajic predicts that the words "have not been taken away from their business ability" are replaced by the words "business are capable". So – the emigrant and his progeny can be admitted to the citizenship of the Republic if they are 18 and are able to do business. We don't think it's right that the law puts the negatives. The government's explanation of why it does not accept the amendment; it says, the amendment is not accepted, since in our right full business capacity they have full-time persons, so that as a condition for obtaining citizenship, they can only be assumed that this capacity has not been taken away from them, and not as, as suggested in the amendment, that it is incapacitated. Of course, adult healthy faces are commercially capable. We can't talk about the procedure in this law if it's been taken away from him, if a full-time person, if he's able to do business by some point, for some reason by other laws provided for, the person can be taken away from his business ability. It's another procedure and it's not disputed. When you take away a person's business ability, then it's no longer businessable. It's not said to be a person who's not deprived of his business ability, it's a person who's capable of business. So we think that this amendment is really relevant and the government's only argument is too pale, and it probably seemed to the government that it would be too much to adopt many amendments to the SRS parliamentary groups, and I'm telling you that this amendment doesn't change the essence of the member, but simply, it just sounds better, in the spirit of our legal system, it's a term that's usually used, a person that's either businessable or not, and here we're not talking about how you predicted in this article, and who hasn't been taken away from business ability, you're talking about some procedure to make it known that someone is taking away their business ability. What we've suggested is one de facto and de jure state, face or has no business ability. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you adopt this amendment for one better legal text because it is in the spirit of our legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9706	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9707	According to the argument given by the government not to accept this amendment, you believe that article 19 refers to citizenship as an honorary one. However, I don't know if you may have noticed, we're asking by amendment, it can't happen, that they are received in honor of our citizenship by a minor or a commercially incompetent person, and that's why we've asked that in this numbering attitude one be redecorated, to erase point 1) from Article 14, to which you are calling. If it's a child, Minister, you've already regulated it to the members of the 20th, etc. So there is no need, practically, you would receive into Serbian citizenship a child who is a miracle and a minor child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9708	The government accepts the amendment, but since the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the amendment or has not spoken, in the day of the vote, we will declare the amendment. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9709	I will continue what was just started, but now really holding only the amendments, the amendment refers to Article 22, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 and reads "other Member States" are replaced by the words "the Republic of Montenegro". That's what we've been talking about so many times. I honestly believe that this should be adopted for one reason that some secretly wish to have a third member, fourth, fifth, and already knows what it refers to, so, when specifically said, the Republic of Montenegro or the Republic of Serbia, for example, can Kosovo. Second, to make a joke, the Montenegrins will be mad at this. They never like to be second. Those who declare themselves Montenegrins here in Serbia, and not those who are Serbs from Montenegro, will be angry, so I fear if these get angry, half of Dedinj will remain empty and half of Serbia without a director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9710	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Milivoje Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9711	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, my colleague from the Serbian Radical Party, Milovan Radovanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 23, which changes and reads: "A member of the Serb or any other people or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who does not have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia if he has turned 18 years of life and is able to make a written statement that the Republic of Serbia considers his country." Mr. Minister, if a right is obtained by applying, with certain conditions, as regulated by Article 21(1), then the word "can" is unnecessary. That's why I think you should accept this amendment by my colleague from the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9712	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9713	As for this amendment and others, and I was saying at the very beginning, that there are a lot of linguistic concerns, mistakes, I'm going to give you something here in particular, and I think you're going to be a consensual, unnecessary use of the same words, piling up. Be patient and listen. The position of the 2nd member states: "Under the conditions laid down in Article 1, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia may also be admitted to a person born in the second republic of the former SFRY who had the nationality of the Republic or a national of another country formed in the territory of the SFRY, who as a fugitive, exiled or displaced person... "You wrote your face again, and you don't need it. It's like a task-- my father, he went. So it's a couple of subjects. You delete this "face" and then it goes -- "which as a refugee, exiled or displaced resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or has fled abroad. "It's purely technical and you can accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9714	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9715	Ladies and gentlemen, to article 23. The proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia has been amended in front of the SRS parliamentary group. It's done to replace words by "can be accepted" replacing them with the words "accepted". It looks like a grammatical change, but it has more meaning when it's said it can be. It is one slightly broader term, so it would be much more precise and much better to accept this amendment, and it refers to displaced, avoided and exiled persons who have been evicted by mass wars in the former Yugoslavia, so as to avoid a long procedure of giving citizenship, where from six months, a year, even two are waiting for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. We will put our people into normal citizens of the Republic of Serbia and they will not be citizens of the second order, as it has been so far. In this case, it wasn't the administration's fault until now, which the people were most complaining about. In fact, it's the law he was. By accepting most of the amendments to the SRS, this law will indeed be the right one. In addition to this amendment, I would say a few more words, that we are under great pressure in public, this Parliament. I have already turned my attention to the President of Parliament several times and to take advantage of Mr. Minister's presence to say that it would be convenient in some reasonable agenda to put on the agenda a point where we will discuss, just us who decide on all important issues in the state, to protect this Parliament, protect the military and the police, where we have really great pressures from the centres of power that want to devalue this parliament and the largest legislative body of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9716	The word is made by Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9717	Just a brief explanation. In this article, it is simply not the acquisition of citizenship by force of the law, but rather a procedure that is extremely uncertain. It depends on whether someone gets citizenship or not. If they accepted this, then they would prejudge the solution to the procedure. We are removing this word because there is a procedure and it is only at the end of the procedure that it is known whether someone has obtained the right or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9718	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9719	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment refers to the day of citizenship and the government's proposal states: "The citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is achieved on the day of the delivery of a solution to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment to the SRS is that instead of the word "delivery" the word "indication" and that the whole text of this attitude reads: "Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is achieved on the day of the adoption of a solution on the admission of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia". The government's argument, why the amendment was not accepted, is truly inconclusive to me. The government says, "The amendment is not accepted because the process of acquisition and termination of citizenship is guided by general rules (I don't know what the general rules are, I guess there are rules under which a certain procedure is conducted) under which the right to apply the legal means runs from the date of delivery of the solution and therefore cannot be taken as the day of obtaining citizenship on which the solution is made but the day of delivery of the solution." I think all the lawyers in this room will agree with the fact that the right to citizenship is one of the personal rights of citizens, and when it comes to the personal rights of citizens then the act on personal rights produces a legal fact on the day of adoption. This is one specific instrument that you really need to accept. A citizen of the Republic of Serbia becomes a person on the day when it comes to gaining citizenship with the reception, on the day when a solution is made on admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This is an amendment that would really be necessary for this legal text to be really valid, because this argument that this procedure is governed by the general rules is completely unfounded, and I repeat once again, the act on the personal rights of citizens produces a legal fact by its adoption. Nationality is a personal right of citizens. The decision is an act establishing that right and therefore it is necessary to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9720	The word is made by Minister Dragan Jocic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9721	To find out about the fate of his claim and his right, he must be aware of it. If this amendment were to be adopted, it is possible that whoever submitted the request would never know that he had been resolved on the request. Normally, then he couldn't even handle certain legal remedies. So, delivery, dating, official introduction to a solution or other written to which a legal remedy can be applied, in any case, requires a moment of delivery. For example, Article 220. The general administrative procedure law states on the legal remedy - the appeal is filed within 15 days of the date of delivery of the solution. So that was the intensity of this proposal, so that whoever submitted and sought his right would be familiar, personally familiar with the outcome of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9722	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9723	I'd like to support Mr. SRS' amendment. There's one thing that needs to be clarified. Legal terms - delivery and decision-making, these are two completely different legal concepts. So, in the legal dictionary, what you've suggested is an absolute legal failure, or a folkly word "do not hold water". He who makes the decision establishes and decides on the right day of the solution, not on the day of delivery to the opposing party. Please, don't resort to this kind of legal violence. This would be legal violence, what you read, because it has nothing to do with this. Nothing to do with this, simply, that all the lawyers here know, all the lawyers who deal with these affairs, know that the day of adoption has nothing to do with the day of delivery. Delivery can be later, and even never. Therefore, because delivery has not been carried out, a citizen must not suffer and basic law as a personal right must be recognised - only on the day of the decision. If I've convinced you a little bit, I'd like you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9724	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, Ambassador Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9725	You see, as I was saying in principle, it is now shown, according to the amendments to the SRS, that this law has its shortcomings, shortcomings, failures and indeterminateness. Namely, our amendments that are directly related aim at correcting not only the wording of this law but also to contribute to its clarity, precision and all that is necessary for the law to be clear for the citizens of Serbia, as well as applicable in practice. In my amendment to Article 27, as well as this matter is spoken of in previous amendments that have been made by the SRS. Namely, Article 27 was regulated when the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia ceases - by dismissal, denial, citizenship of another Member State, according to international contracts. I have submitted an amendment to Article 27(3) with a proposal to say "Republic of Montenegro" instead of "other Member States". Why is that? For the sake of clarity, and also because we do not undermine our brotherly Republic of Montenegro, but to be clear and precise about which state community it is. The explanation given said it was taken over from the Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Well, if that charter says it's the state union of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, I don't understand why it doesn't say here and according to the Constitutional Charter and under the Belgrade Agreement - the Republic of Montenegro. This amendment would change the context of this article, as well as the previous members to the end. So it would be much more precise and clear, as agreed under the Constitutional Charter and under the Belgrade Agreement, and would be given what it says there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9726	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9727	In addition to what Mr. Veselinović explained, I would like to ask you (to see the Minister) just to look at Article 27, point 3) and look at the title above Article 35. You see, it means - the termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and then it says - the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia ceases by gaining citizenship of another Member State. To neglect that appointment, so here you have stated that our citizenship ends when citizenship is acquired in Montenegro, and here you have said as a title - the termination of citizenship for acquisition. So, the first stop, that's where the citizenship would be. I don't know if you noticed. You have to agree to that somehow. That'll be a problem in practice. You see, it means that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia ends the citizen of the Republic of Serbia if, on the basis of his request, he acquires the citizenship of another state. So he's got it. And, at one point, he had two republican citizenships in one minute. Yes, it is, look. And you're saying up there, for the sake of acquisition. So he lost something, lost his citizenship to get there. It's a logical problem. You just didn't solve that institute. You can only solve it by saying, in the title, above, stopping citizenship by obtaining another state's citizenship, or erasing this "work". Unfortunately, this is not covered by the amendment. But it doesn't bother the government that she submits the amendment. Well, since I'm already taking this opportunity, Minister, I would recommend that in Article 6, the last position, this in the end, where it's said -- after the procedure, is always -- after the procedure, you know. There's no need to explain the Ministry's conduct. When it's based on the law, I guess it's legal. It's a repetition. And secondly, Minister, you didn't understand Mr. Koprivic, you know, in the previous article of 25. You see, the law is a general act and it defines when it comes. the day of citizenship, but it defines it with one general standard -- as a rule, and then it's said, and you said, on the day of delivery. Not on the day of delivery, but on the day that was determined in the solution of admission to citizenship. It's probably the day of the application. And when it comes to legal action, it's only when it's received by the party. Well, that's where you didn't get along. And you read well - delivery, but it's the wrong topic. It's a personal delivery. If he's not there, he can answer on the board, but it's another dimension entirely. So, the solution comes into legal power when it's received by the party, when it finds out, and this is something that needs to mean to you what should be at point 1 of the dissent of the adoption of citizenship. That's what this is about. So when the state recognizes his use of rights. In that sense, you should observe. One thing's been objective ever since the law was admitted, and the other one's personal when it's delivered to a man. There's a problem, there may be a delivery problem. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9728	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9729	You know, when an act is received, it doesn't mean it's entered into the full closure of the legal system. There are some other procedures that can and do not have to be done, such as administrative dispute. As far as this goes, I have to say you're right. In order to gain citizenship, but I still have to point out that this is not a norm, this is just a rubrum that is probably not well formulated, but it doesn't affect the validity of all normics below it. I don't know if there's some kind of editorial that can be done outside the Legislative Committee, but basically, it's to keep an eye on it at first sight, but it's not a norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9730	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9731	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. It's a bill of law. The member reads: "The discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will not be granted if it is necessary for reasons of security or defence of the country, for reasons of reciprocity or if it is required by the economic and other interests of Serbia-Montenegro." I've made the amendment for the following reasons. Article 28 preceding Article 29 lists the conditions necessary for a person to receive a request for discharge from our nationality. Therefore, in order to get a discharge solution, the person must meet the following conditions: that he has turned 18 years of life, that there is no interference with the military obligation, that he has settled taxes and other legal obligations in Serbia-Montenegro, that he has regulated property obligations from marital relations, that no criminal proceedings are conducted against him and that he has foreign citizenship or evidence that he will be admitted into foreign citizenship. In Article 42. The bill is very precisely prescribed that the discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia will not be granted, i.e. it will not be accepted to give up the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia during the duration of the war, the state of immediate war danger or emergency. What I'm saying is that in Article 29, criteria are completely inaccurate, wide, and that by calling this member, the MUP can practically act as it pleases. In fact, the law must be clear and precise, and this member is not and he is unnecessary, since there are members of 28 and 42 who are very precise. Let's say, what does that mean, the economic interest of the country, who evaluates and based on which criteria precisely defined that this is the case. I also read in the light of the law that this member will only apply to individual cases, when deciding on the demands of our citizens on temporary work abroad, because it is known that our citizens would get a work permit in Germany and that they must have a solution to refuse the dismissal of our citizenship. However, I believe that it stands only in the light of the law, and if it is not read, and after the adoption and publication of this law, this argument has no legal fact, nor is it binding on anyone. So, what is the guarantee that some MP officer will apply this law only when it comes to the demands of our citizens on temporary work abroad. I believe that this article should not be accepted because it allows, on the one hand, the red tape of the clerk himself and the kind of abuse, and all that it wanted to achieve was defined by these other two members that I cited.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9732	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9733	We are simply asking by amendment to delete these words "or others", because this "or other" in practice can mean the great discretionary right of the one who decides on it. We think you've covered everything with this. You've already listed security reasons. You accept. So it's all covered.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9734	The government has accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9735	Mr. Becic asked to change attitude 3. You accept. You can see it's already covered up there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9736	The government has accepted this amendment. (Dragan Jocic, from the post: Article 32(1) Amendment of MP Branislav Rankic was accepted. ) The previous amendment by Branislav Rankic was accepted by the government, as did this amendment by Igor Becic, with the fact that because of the Committee on Justice who did not accept the amendment in the voting day, we will declare the amendment. A member of the 34th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34, which reads: "can win again" is replaced by the words "gets back" and the words "not taken from his business ability" by the words "business is capable". We also had a similar situation in the amendment to Article 14(1), which was submitted by the MP of the SRS, Mr Bozidar Koprivica. When citing conditions that must be met by a person in order to gain our citizenship, it should start with the conditions that must be met, not by those that can be guessed at whether they are met. In particular, in the case of this Article 34, the difference between the solution in the proposed member of the law and the solution in the tabled amendment can be seen. What does the term "no take-off" mean? This may mean that the person who acquires citizenship is not even established business ability, so it cannot be abolished. The amendment provides that the person must be able to do business, but not as it says in the bill. Maybe the face is incompetent, and that incompetence isn't legally registered and regulated anywhere, so it's like it's not there. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment in order to avoid ambiguity in interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9738	National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 35 and 35. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9739	I have submitted an amendment to Article 41 in the sense that this member is completely deleted. A member of the 41st proposed law on citizenship reads: "The Ministry of Home Affairs may refuse a request to obtain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia through the reception or termination of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, although the conditions laid down by this law are met, if it considers that there are reasons for interest in the Republic of Serbia which require that the requirement for the acquisition or termination of citizenship be rejected. "I believe that this article 41 is suspended all the good that is defined, otherwise, in my opinion, by a very correct and good proposal for this law. This violates all the rules laid down in the draft law on acquisition, i.e. for the termination of citizenship. The said member is given the right to the ministry that the person who meets exactly all the conditions laid down in the law for the reception or termination of citizenship rejects the request if it is assessed, as it is said - that there are reasons for the interest of the Republic of Serbia that require the acquisition or termination of citizenship should be refused. So, the whole law which is precise and good is dissuaded, and I believe that the conditions for admission, as well as the conditions for termination of citizenship in the law, must be very explicitly stated, and the arbitrary assessments of the state authorities that decide on the request, regardless of what the first-degree procedure is, must be reduced to a minimum, i.e., it is best that there are none at all. There are such provisions in some laws, they are still found, but they need to be avoided in new laws because they are outdated and counterproductive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9740	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9741	I am truly sorry, but in this matter I do not agree with Mrs Nestorovic, because I believe there must be discretionary law, as it is commonly called, that the minister or ministry can do as it says in Article 41. I'm going one step further, so he doesn't have to explain at all why he denied any rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9742	Thank you. Here, replica, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9743	Once again, I must repeat my belief that one such member, very generally written, no matter how much I agree that some kind of discretionary right should be granted to the minister, without further precision, absolutely disabling everything that was in the previous members. Which means - discretionary law and whether it's the right minister, it doesn't stand here. So, what it means is that even though you're meeting all the conditions, someone can, for some reason that they're in no way precise, take away all those rights from you. I suppose you had other reasons not to agree with me, but I'd like to hear them more specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9744	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9745	A fake is a crime, and a lie under certain conditions also requires criminal responsibility. The General Administrative Procedure Act has provisions on extraordinary remedies, other than the repetition of the procedure, that is to say, the annulment under the law of supervision. There are instruments that can be remedied as a result of a falsification of a false statement based on which someone acquired or lost their citizenship. I know you accept this professionally, but there's a problem with attitude 2 that calls for attitude 1. This situation has been defined as regards the General Administrative Procedure Act, there is no need to embody this exception, so before you have limited this exception by no time, you did not say - within five years, two years, 10 years, etc. So, if you delete Section 1, the law is not ruined, because there are provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act where there is a possibility under the right of supervision to amend the final administrative act, to be repealed, to be abolished. There is a possibility of repeating the procedure and removing that failure, and if, after 15 years, someone has concluded that someone has cheated on the state in the acquisition of citizenship, the expiry of the deadline alone is a reasonable reason for that man to continue to be our citizen. This is also true in the event of a loss of citizenship, i.e. the termination of citizenship. As you've given no legal certainty, and rightly someone can point to great discretion from one who decides on the acquisition and termination of citizenship. If you'd listed here at least a deadline, five, ten years, it would have been as acceptable. That's why we asked the amendment to delete this because it's already covered. In any case, you apply the General Administrative Procedure Act in this procedure. There are provisions that regulate this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9746	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9747	I am talking about Article 45, by proposing that my amendment delete the position of Article 2 45, because as it is said to this member - if the Ministry of Home Affairs in the process determines that a person has acquired citizenship of the Republic of Serbia or that his nationality of the Republic of Serbia has ceased to be contrary to the rules on citizenship that were in force at the time of acquisition or termination of citizenship, especially on the basis of false or falsified documents or statements, based on incorrect facts, abuses and irregularities in the procedure carried out, will bring a solution to the annulment. In Article 2, which I propose to delete, it is said that the solution to obtaining and ending the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia cannot be annulled if the person in Article 1 of this article is left without citizenship, i.e. become an apatrid. Namely, gentlemen of fellow Members of the People, especially those who are lawyers, nothing based on counterfeiting and a false statement can be legally acceptable. No exceptions should be made in that sense. All such solutions are annulled, and he who does so commits a crime. No matter what I know, and I read in your explanation that you follow that intensity that all the international charters have, that the number of apatrides decrease, that they are not being created at all, that is absolutely clear, but nowhere in that charter stands such a thing. It is that there is an intensity, but not at all, that there are none at all, because in my hand I am holding in my hand the Charter which was fundamental to you, it is the European Convention on Citizenship of 1997. Therefore, Article 7 bearing the title - Loss of nationality of the Eh lega means, by virtue of the law or by the initiative of the State of the Contracting Party, that the Contracting State must not provide for its internal right to lose its nationality, or to the initiative of that State of the Contracting Party, except in the following cases - which are the cases. Among other things, under (b) that the acquisition of state citizenship in fraud by using false information or by hiding any relevant fact which may be prescribed by the applicant, and even at point 3) says that the State Party cannot provide for its internal right to lose its nationality on the basis of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, other than the cases mentioned in the position I have read, which is that citizenship has taken place on fraud, using false information or hiding any relevant facts. Even this 1997 convention, which you are referring to, says: "Make an apatride if it applies." I've read this and other charters, and it clearly states that even when apartrid occurs, you have to abide primarily by criminal law and this other one, about administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9748	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9749	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already come to terms with this in the principle debate and I fully agree with my colleague Nestorovic in this matter. I would even go one step further than what I said in the principle debate. Imagine a person who wants to become our citizen, and that's what he wants to do on the basis of a prank. When would he ever become an honorary citizen of our country? Not only would you not support him to remain here this second position, but I would not give him citizenship ever again, or at least in the next five or more years, until he is fixed, to gain the right and to ask us to be our citizen. You can't turn into a citizen on pranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9750	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. (Dear Jocic, from place: accepted. ) The amendment was accepted, and since the Committee on Justice did not accept it, in the day for the vote we will declare the amendment. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a final word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9751	I would like to thank all those who have tried to fix this law with amendments, that is to say, to make it better. I have to say, no law can be perfect. There's never a law to be written not to be seen from both this and that angle. But what really encourages is that most MPs have estimated that this law was necessary and that it is essentially good. The essence of this law is, in fact, taking care of its own, caring for all those who have lost their citizenship, who have no citizenship and who want to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As interior minister, for the past eight months, I have seen many people living far from the country of Serbia, crying for a ID card, to get confirmation that it is their country of origin. In fact, this is one law that we complete or begin to complete our statehood. We simply want to get together with this law. No matter what the outcome of the vote in the voting day will be, I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9752	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Life-Medjudgment (Common principled search with 6, 7 and 8) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint search on the draft laws proposed by Parliament of the People's Parliament, Milojub Albianić, and before opening a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Notice that representatives are authorised for this item of the agenda: for SRS MP Branislav Blazic, for DSS MP Jovan Palalic, for DS MP Gordana Komic, for G17 plus MP Ivan Zivadinović, with SP-NS MP Dr Dusan Mrvos and for the SPS MP Miloje Savic. I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Proposal for a Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the Proposal for a Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment. Does the promoter's representative, Mr. Aleksandar Popovic, the minister of science and environmental protection, want a word? Yes, go ahead. Before I give you my word, just one more announcement. The Environment Protection Committee will be held at 1400 hours on the fifth floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9753	Dear Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed MPs, in the area of protection of natural values and environments in the Republic of Serbia, exist, on constitutional and legal grounds, a system of legal norms, which makes up more than 100 regulations. This system is specifically made up of rules on the planning and arrangement of space and settlements, the construction of buildings, mining, geological research, water protection, land, plants, animals, forests, national parks, waste management, the transport of poisons, transport and transport of explosive and dangerous substances, etc. The 1991 Law on the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Serbia and the regulations adopted under this law regulates air protection, noise protection, nature protection and goods from special values, institutionalised assessment of the impact of objects, i.e. environmental works and other criteria and conditions of protection and improvement of the environment. Such a system, regulated by a large number of regulations and sectorally divided powers in different state bodies, public services or public enterprises, could not consistently and consistently achieve environmental protection. Economic and non-economic interests and reasons dictated the conditions and methods of exploitation of natural resources and goods, without including direct or indirect environmental impacts. The approach so far had, at the republic and other levels, uncoordinated plans and decisions, the absence of coordination and operation of all entities in the protection and conservation of natural resources, goods and the environment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A large number of laws and regulations do not have uniformly set objectives and does not provide satisfactory effects on the responsible and solidarity of the relationship with the use of natural wealth and the protection of the environment. The seemingly regulated environmental protection system lacks a consistent approach to decision-making and implementation, as well as a harmonised system of conditions and measures of prevention and control of the use of natural resources and goods, i.e. environmental protection. The environmental law, together with the environmental impact assessment law, the law on strategic environmental impact assessment and the law on integrated prevention and control of pollution, is a step forward and a de facto new concept in the legislative and legal regulation of the environment in the Republic of Serbia, in line with the requirements of the European Union and our specificities and specificities. A report from Serbia-Montenegro's fifth advanced dialogue with the European Union, held in Podgorica on 16 July 2004, and dedicated to political reforms, regional co-operation and international obligations between Serbia-Montenegro, co-operation in the field of justice, internal affairs and environmental protection, and the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, since 20 August 2004, suggested that a priority in the area of environmental protection is the adoption of environmental law and a set of special laws. The proposal for a law on environmental protection has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the European Union, which, in a modern way, will establish an integrated system of environmental protection and an institutional solution for effective environmental management in this area. The importance and complexity of this area, which takes place in the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, as is the case in all developed countries and Central and Eastern European countries, means adequate evaluation and provision of conditions for policy implementation, which will contribute to the understanding and effective functioning of the country in this area. The proposal for a law on environmental protection is a model of framework law which, together with specific laws, regulates a system of environmental protection that makes measures, conditions and instruments for sustainable management of natural values, as well as prevention, control, reduction and resolution of all forms of pollution. The 2002 draft law on the environmental protection system served as the basis for the new text of the law, given that it passed a public presentation and debate in more than 30 Serbian cities. These texts remove key objections, review of concepts and improved solutions. Important changes are in the concept of the law, given the results of the "JUGOLEX" project, the development of environmental regulations, and these include the creation of specific laws, the law on strategic environmental impact assessment, the environmental impact assessment law and the law on integrated prevention of environmental control and pollution. This text of the environmental law is a step towards Serbia's legislation to EU legislation. It is characterized by a strategic preventive, integrated approach to managing economic resources of environmental protection. It is based on special express co-operation between competent authorities, the role and responsibility of the government have been strengthened, not by one of the environmental protection ministers. The jurisdiction between the Republic, AP and local self-government has been extended. It is characterized by consistency and consistency, clearly established principles of environmental protection. It provides a framework for the management of natural values that are governed by specific laws, water, land, forests, mineral raw materials, etc. The biggest complaint relating to the previous version of the law concerning the issue of licences for the use of natural values has been removed. The measures and conditions of environmental protection constitute the core of the law and the essential concept paper. We have described and preventive measures, as well as environmental protection conditions, i.e. environmental quality standards and emission standards, environmental management system and standards of processes, products and services. The responsibility of the Environmental Protection Agency as an information centre for the collection, processing and exchange of environmental data with other international information systems is clearly defined. Significant changes have been introduced by proposing the establishment of a environmental fund and in particular in the chapter "Responsibility for pollution". The law provides for a stricter responsibility for environmental pollution with 23 economic offenses and 13 violations. The concept of environmental law is based on: 1) making and implementing decisions to ensure the balance between environmental protection and economic development through the integration of environmental protection in all policy sectors, on the planning and sustainable use of natural resources, goods and energy, monitors, control and improvement of environmental quality, monitoring, prevention, mitigation, mitigation of adverse environmental impacts and human health, the introduction of more energy-efficient technologies and the use of restored natural resources, integration of economic analyses and conditions of environmental protection on a proportionate basis, the establishment of an information system for environmental protection and natural values, promotion and use of products of process, technology and practices that compromise the environment, security and implementation of economic instruments for financing all environmental protection, the environment and the environment. The aim is to create conditions for adapting the structure and dynamics of the economy and other activities of nature and the dynamics of conditions, i.e. the process in the environment, so that by meeting the needs of the present generations, the right of future generations to a healthy environment, on the same or higher level, is not threatened. The draft law respects the extent of technical and technological development, diversity and specificity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in a unique way to regulate the basic principles and institutes based on the achievement of human and citizen freedoms in the field of environmental protection, which provides one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, equality before the law. Disrespect for these facts would have a devastating effect on long-term development and would have an even greater lagging behind the developed world. Definitions embedded in the draft law are a prerequisite for the concept of development to comply with environmental protection requirements in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Realising this development requires a change in the behaviour of all entities and operators responsible for protecting the environment and development, i.e. bringing economic policy into line in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, it must be borne in mind that environmental protection is provided only after the adoption of specific laws and compliance of existing laws and other regulations with the provisions of this law. One way to achieve environmental protection policy is to prevent the creation of pollution and significant changes that can occur in environmental factors as a result of taking certain activities. In order to prevent, reduce or mitigate these significant changes or pollution, it is necessary to implement a change of environmental impact at the initial stage of all technical planning, as well as in the decision-making process. The environmental impact assessment law regulates the impact assessment process for projects that can have a significant impact on the environment, the content of an environmental impact assessment study, the participation of interested authorities and organisations and the public, cross-border information on projects that can have significant environmental impacts on another country, supervision and other issues of importance for environmental impact assessment. The subject of impact assessments are projects planned and implemented, changes in technology, reconstruction, expansion of capacity, termination of work and removal of projects that can have a significant impact on the environment. The subject of impact assessments are projects that have been implemented without a study on impact assessment and do not have the approval to build or use. The impact assessment is carried out for projects in the fields of industry and mining, energy, transport, tourism, agriculture, forestry, water, waste management and municipal activities, as well as for all projects planned for natural good value and in the protected environment of cultural goods. The provisions of this law do not apply to projects designed to defend the country. A strategic environmental impact assessment law regulates the conditions, manner and procedure of assessing the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment. There is a principle of sustainable development, integration, precautionaryness, the principle of hierarchy and coordination, to the public to ensure environmental protection and to improve sustainable development through integration of the basic principles of environmental protection in the process of preparing the adoption of plans and programmes. The strategic assessment is carried out for plans, programmes and bases in the field of spatial and urban planning or land use, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, fisheries, energy, industry, transport, waste management, water management, telecommunications, tourism, conservation of natural habitats, which establish a framework for the approval of future development projects by certain regulations governing environmental impact assessment. Finally, the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution regulates the principle of precautionaryness, integration and coordination, the principle of sustainable development, the hierarchy of waste management. Also on the principle – the pay polluter achieves prevention and control of environmental pollution through the process of issuing integrated plant permits and activities that can have a negative impact on human health and the environment or material goods. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this set of laws, Serbia will draw one step closer to EU standards. Of course, another additional large set of special laws is needed to bring our situation into line with EU standards in different areas, but also with our specialities. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9754	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS parliamentary group has very carefully read and discussed the proposal for a law on environmental protection, which the government has done and referred to in the procedure of the Serbian Parliament, with a very rich experience of similar work on the previous proposal for a system of environmental protection, which is also mentioned by the minister in its presentation, and from which about 80% is included in this law that is before us. Why did we carefully and carefully consider the Law on the Protection of the Environment? Because we consider it one of the key, if not the key law on what is root change in Serbia, which is changing the system of values in Serbia, and in line with EU norms and in line with what we are all defined in this assembly by adopting a resolution on European integration. My exposure will be divided into four parts. The first is, differences in views of the DS concept and the proposed law. The second is, a comment on the proposed amendments that have been divided into four groups. It's the third one, the Minister's recommendation during this debate. The fourth is the projection or scenario of events that will follow in Serbia through the adoption of such a bill or by accepting our amendments and by improving it and then by adopting such a bill. So, the environment or even the environmental protection system can be divided by decades if you had only the concept of environmental pollution control in Europe in the 1970s. So, he ruled the principle -- relaxation is not a solution. Let's see what we're gonna do, because by the '70s, you've had -- I don't know what to do with the pollution, let's loosen it up. It was water, air, land. In the 1970s, it proved that relaxation was not a solution, but rather that it produced a much larger set of problems than economic development brought good things, and that it produced pollution. In the 1980s, the concept of integration of the process was introduced. So, life in general was monitored through environmental factors, air, water, land, plant and animal life. Whoever is monitoring this area or who is in the area knows about major European projects and projects in Western-American countries that concerned the integration of the process and a comprehensive approach to what is the environment. Right away, the law that is before you is by concept, by spirit, by solutions and by what will produce the concept of the 1980s from the developed world. In the 1990s, in developed countries, the concept of planning the entire facility was made. So, apart from accepting that relaxation is not a solution, except that you have an integrated view -- I produce beer, rubber, bread, anything I do, hunt, hunt, cramp the forest, so whatever I do in the country, which is not borrowed from my own grandchildren, I approach it integrally, and I see where everything is going to be produced because a man intervenes in the environment. That was the first time energy and waste balances were introduced. So, in 1990, it practically starts to introduce clean technologies into production, everywhere with a comprehensive approach and a search for what's been compromised in the balance sheet. In here, skeptics often make remarks about the type -- it's me, it's started to develop technologies, it's not about the environment, but it's about selling some new product, some new technology, so you're setting up some conditions for sustainable use of the environment. You have a famous story about an ozone hole that's only been invented because new sprayers have come along. So it's all the kind of person who deals with the environment that has data. I see some MPs are surprised. You have several times repeated in the cycles of the story that all the environmental work is merely a masked service to what is called the large capital of a multinational company and so on. It's not true, and it's not true you see by monitoring for all the parameters that you determine the quality of some environment. That's 1990 balance, energy and waste. When the environment was at risk, there was always a mechanism for the input size of the energy required or whatever, a ton of coal, a ton of oil, a kilo of bread, a ton of mineral fertilizer, or anything that man used, to put in place control, so that the balance between energy and waste would not be disrupted. Since 2000, apart from the concept of industrial ecology, today valid everywhere in the world, balances have been observed – material, raw materials, resources. Pretty quickly from the attitude that mitigation is not a solution, through an integrated approach that damages everything while I produce profit benefits, through the balance of energy and waste, very quickly it has reached energy, material, raw materials and resources, for the simple reason that the resources are exhausting category. If you really want to have only respect in a country you borrowed from your grandchildren then you have to take care of the resources so you can know what to do with the amount of raw materials you want to invest in your economic development, what to do with the waste that you get. In the end, you have a concept of sustainable development that makes all the countries of developed Europe more difficult after 2010, meaning the concept of industrial ecology and flow of capital, labour force and social components. If you want some comparison, then we could go back and say that today in the world, the concept of sustainable development implies that you have a chair on four legs. On that chair sits the future of your nation, the future of the space your nation lives on and the future of your country. These four legs, one environment, and that's why a law on the environmental protection system is needed, the second is the economy, the third is the social situation in the country where you observe and the fourth is the policy, the policy profile you accept as valid in that country. What did that look like ten years ago? You lacked a social policy leg and you lacked an economy. So, all you had was the environment and some kind of policy that wasn't arranged sectorally through all the areas of society. If you go back to the '70s, where you only have one leg from that chair and that's the pollution control situation. What does this legal act propose? It suggests that Serbia be satisfied in 2004 with a concept of environmental protection from the 1980s. I don't dispute the right of the promoter to say that it's the measure of things, we can't sustain development, we can't do this, but I'm looking for arguments for it. I didn't hear the arguments on the board. I didn't hear them talking to the minister. So our proposal to put a chapter into the law right now -- conditions for sustainable resource use, is contained in what is now cheaper and is one of the most important arguments in the balance sheet. This approach will certainly produce more expensive. So, in his opening statement, the minister said quite correctly that you now have a sectoral approach, but also after this adoption of the law, you will have a sectoral approach. For example, the water industry will determine who uses, who collects, who controls the pollution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9756	Excuse me, are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9757	Yeah, I'm using for the next ten minutes. Foresting and water industry will say who benefits, who charges and who pollutes and so sectoral, without the influence of the Law on a system of environmental protection, as it should be called, and without the influence of the practical Assembly, you will not have a policy. So you're starting to miss that fourth leg. Of course, you will lack social policy as a consequence. In his opening statement, the minister said there was no consequential approach. You haven't removed such a proposal by law-consequence. So the three following laws, which are essentially rules, and not laws, do not remove the consistency of approach. The rules were at a time when the law was proposed in 2002 and 2003, and the rules remained in their contents. It's been amended to regulate it by law, and it shows that you lack a second leg on this chair, because you've already thrown one out, and that's that you don't have a policy where your waist is the main because you want something that's the rule to be called the law, it's about the definition that in the field of environment focus is on administrative procedure, which I have nothing against. So, to focus on the right, to focus on the papers, on the regulations followed by the user, the polluter, the charger, whatever. But it's not a system of environmental protection in 2000. You will have the dissatisfaction with the will of the majority to adopt such a bill and that, in another term, you yourself, if you are once again a minister and protection of the environment or someone else says - missing this law, which was meant to be a roof law, lacks an integrated approach. So this is something that the previous and this government left behind -- not sectoral application of the principles of environmental protection, but has left sectoral political will for individual segments in the government to adopt regulations in the way that suits them. What's that about being the main objector? The main objection is that the law is at the level of exploitation. The law in its approach, according to the provisions you do, has essentially the idea of exploiting natural resources, not the sustainable use of natural resources. Your answer in the debate so far has been - it is resolved through these three accompanying laws. He's not getting rid of it. The evidence for that is groundwater. I also submitted an amendment on groundwater. They're nowhere to be found. The proof that it is not being solved is an accident, if it happens, and that's what we said in the debate, if there's an open affair about the sale of "Knjiza Miloša" and ends well by country, because I think it's the main idea - to end well by country, there's nowhere in this law, and neither in the accompanying rules you call laws, provisions to which a concession contract can be called to alter the exhaustion or tolerability of a source of medicinal or mineral water. There may also be a situation where the state, I repeat, if it gets rid of the "Knjiz Milos" affair that has spread from the government and other competent authorities for the process, can come to the state to say - I apologize, but you have nothing to do with the mineral water source, you bought what you bought. It's the same thing with the clay, with the laser, with anything. You have that problem right now when it comes to cementers. So, that problem exists now. By this law, even by following the rules you call the laws, that problem is not solved. If it's about monopolies that every environment system wants to eliminate, because when someone has a monopoly, it usually lacks conscience, it's the nature of monopoly and human nature. If you have a monopoly and you have no one to distract you in that monopoly, thank God you won't resist temptation. So, all sectoral approaches, you're talking about applying sectoral policy, but you expect water law, forest law, chemical law, etc. And you say - they will in these future laws regulate the issues of the environmental protection system. What makes you say that? Now that we have a problem with the water industry, which won't give up the monopoly to use, to charge and to pollute. If that's the rule why the water industry doesn't say right now - let's see what water can do to clean up in the country. What is the lateral reason for the revision of this law is two, one management and one financial. The head of the agency in your bill is practically a minister. So, in our opinion, the agency was supposed to be a public agency. We've submitted the amendment to that. I know all constitutional limitations. So whenever you propose to the public agency as a completely independent body, which is also a problem with the telecommunications agency, even with the broadcasting board, you'll always have a legitimate remark -- but that's not in line with our Constitution. It's not particularly against it. It means that it's a matter of political will, together to assess whether there is a social consensus to introduce public agencies as independent control bodies. This agency won't be. It's perfectly clear from the law and I don't mind that it's a commitment, but we claim that agencies are needed as public agencies that are completely independent. Of course that doesn't save you. You are an example of the Securities Commission. But it provides a public service. If you didn't have that record commission of value, then somewhere, "Prince Milos" would spill through the sand, and no one would ever see it. Well, since you have, then it just means that the independent body has become clear that we have a problem, so we're going to see how to solve it. The environmental fund is like a good idea. It has local environments, some local self-government, and it works, but here with the future fund manager, this looks like the third or fourth most powerful financial position, in the financial vertical of public income. Since I'm not worried about which parties the Fund's director is going to be someone who misses it to be financial verticals, then I'm leaving it on discussion during the principle debate, because the Environment Fund is a great idea. A dedicated fund -- a great idea, but this is how it's supposed to be, you have a fund manager who has a practically good untouchability for the governor of the NBS. So I'm not qualified, I'm just pointing out that that's the thing that can make a problem. Our amendments are divided into three groups. The first most important group we want to debate in this assembly is the establishment of conditions for sustainable use of resources, because the minister is right when he said there was no systemic approach so far. With this chapter alone, you are allowed a system-based approach to sustainable resource use, because natural resources and environments and capital and economic categories. So it doesn't occur to anyone that, being a systemic protection of the environment, it says that we shouldn't live in conditions of civilized, comfortable, comfortable, modern life, but that it's done in a sustainable way. Now if we solve this, it'll be cheaper than in 2008. Then we'll already have to look for investments for black spots and pollution that this law will make possible. The other two groups of amendments are less important. It's just a matter of principle. Each of us has a view of how something should be called, or how the European Union directives are interpreted, but this one is the first. We have received a report on the amendments from both the Committee and the Government, and except that this report says that Gordana Komic has submitted an amendment, as regards the Assembly's Office, then I expect Minister Aleksandar Popovic has refused or has not accepted the amendment, which was agreed by Vojislav Kostunica. So it's something that's a simple example when you don't think it's easy to make completely unnecessary and stupid mistakes. I didn't-- I didn't take anything, but-- I did, and it's... Can I help you? - What's the word for it, MP? [[You can't hear a comment.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9758	Please continue and you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9759	Here, I'm done, I overstepped one minute. So, the fact that Minister Aleksandar Popovic refused and did not accept amendments concerning the terms of resource use does not benefit me either as someone who has submitted the amendment to you, and this is not about different concepts. This is about fighting between vanity and a single real concept, which is a system of environmental protection. With the desire to really come together, by accepting these amendments, to take a huge step in this assembly with a unanimous statement on amendments and on the whole of the law, I must express on behalf of the Democratic Party my satisfaction that such a bill has finally arrived on the agenda. He came in twice, twice for unwarranted reasons, because it's a sign to me that we're really going to do what we voted on here, and that's the European Union's accession resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9760	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9761	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the afternoon work of the session. Before we move to work, please determine the quorum. I find that the electronic system shows that we have enough MPs present. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go. Authorised representative of the SP-New Serbia Parliamentary Group Mr Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9762	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, is finally before us this set of laws, we are talking about the Law on the Protection of the Environment. In environmental problems, all countries, including our country, face the same needs. On the one hand, there is one inherited pollution, water pollution, soil and air, and on the other hand there is control and prevention of both existing and future pollution control. The development of all countries has gone to the same principle in some past. Among other natural goods, and when we talk about the environment, we're not just talking about air, just water or just land, we're talking about flora, we're talking about fauna, we're talking about waste, we're talking about transporting chemicals or dangerous materials, so, in some time, natural resources were being used to the maximum, environmental protection, or the story of ecology was purely declarative, even though there were some positive legal regulations, it was definitely in the seal. Some future development of Serbia and environmental protection in Serbia must simultaneously include two factors either to find the right or the right measure between some two factors. On the one hand, it's economic development, and on the other hand it's all factors that make up a healthy environment. The new Serbia-SPO, thinking about it, is governed by certain principles, and some of these principles are the first adoption of a national strategy on environmental protection, then the principle of prevention, the principle of conservation of natural values, the principle of accountability. There is the principle of payment, there is the principle of education and the principle of information and public participation in making some decisions that may have consequences for the environment. Then, there is the principle of decentralisation and the descent of certain responsibilities at local level, including that local environmental inspectors have far greater powers than they have now and, finally, it may be the last in this order of listing, but perhaps most importantly, the right of each individual to a healthy environment and the possibility of achieving that right and law, or through courts. All or most of these principles of environmental protection New Serbia and the SPO have been recognised in this set of laws, beginning with the Law on the Protection of the Environment, and therefore this set of laws has unreserved support for both New Serbia and the SPO. I'm going to take just a little bit more time away from you with this environmental law, or this set of laws, I just want to tell you that I'm coming from Panchev, and when I started here, I wanted to bring a so-called M1 protection mask or a simple world known as gas. To hold one short course, one education to put on and use a mask. After yesterday's stories about Juicy, etc., I thought it was a little declassified because some of you and some of you know what it looks like to be gassed, some of you have had a chance to use it. Most I hope she didn't have that chance, but believe me, all 150,000 residents of the Pancheva municipality know what it looks like and what it's like and how it's being used. They know for one simple reason, and before 1999, before the bombing of Yugoslavia, especially the bombing of Panchev, and I will remind you that never and anywhere in the world, in all wars that have been fought in mankind's history, no petrochemicals has ever been bombed anywhere. We have a bombed Petrochemy in Pancheva. Starting in 1999 and that bombing through the daily inhaling of various toxic substances such as gasoline, such as metal, mercantan, non-methane-type hydrocarbons, such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, such as total reduced sulfurs, the citizens of the Pancevo municipality need to use this protective mask. Believe me, after all this, death became a friend of most households, houses in Pancheva, and the New Cemetery in Pancheva is already popularly referred to as the "Home of Youth". The people of Panchev want only one thing. They do not want the protection of the environment to be a means of day-to-day policy, nor do they want the hypocrisy of individual parties, or individual bosses, of individual parties coming to Panchevo to talk about environmental protection and polluted air in Pancheva, and, as has happened relatively recently, in these local elections, support a particular candidate for the municipality president of a particular political group. The citizens of Pancheva do not want Panchevo to be in the paper only when the wind changes direction, so it smells Belgrade or in certain parts of Belgrade. The citizens of Pancheva want both the citizens of Bora, Obrenovac, the citizens of individual towns in Serbia to be systematically resolved, to get all these problems into the system's institutions. People of Panchev want, I urge you, Ministers, I urge you, I urge the government to, as one of the members of this, I am sure of the passed law, that the government declares Panchevo a environment particularly threatened and thus local self-government along with industry, with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, begins to solve the part by part of the problem of Panchev. It's possible it's not. It is possible that Panchevo, for my unknown reason, was a sacrificed city, which is not unusual, and during World War II, Churchill sacrificed Coventry, so the Germans wouldn't know that the English ciphers knew the German code, but if that's the case, then please one thing. Let me tell that to the citizens of Panchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9763	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Here you go. An authorised representative of the SRS, Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have four laws before us on environmental protection, laws we've been waiting for for a long time. It is logical that they come as a consequence and a requirement, normally in one country's development and the EU's proposals and principles, and the need for us as an orderly society to get an orderly system in protecting the environment. These were our expectations and it was some kind of support that every lawmaker should have, in any case, which they defined to engage in such a serious enterprise, but in any case our expectations were far higher. Therefore, we cannot argue that we are criticising something that in itself should make a new contribution to the development of society at all, but we must point to all the problems that have been missed, trying to do so through amendments and through this principle debate. After all, we should contribute that this first step in some new concept of environmental protection is only the first step, but that it follows a whole series of steps that should be complete and give new quality to the overall development and protection of the environment in Serbia. What is it that we can begin to resent and say what we expected, and how should we put ourselves towards solving such a vital and significant problem in Serbia? MPs had to get information and an analysis of the state of the environment today in Serbia for 2003 and 2004 and see what the air condition is, when it comes to air pollution and emissions in certain areas and how we will address the problem. Here is a concept – a pay contaminant. We're starting to analyze the essence. The concept – wage polluter is something that is certainly trend, demand and need and way to solve such a problem. However, the instruments used here are, above all, administrative. The criteria and the introduction of a concept – the wage polluter should have all the elements of economic instruments, to be stimulating for contaminants, that it can also know by reducing pollution as to how it will affect its profit, its production. This administratively, with some established norms, through the principle – the polluter pays, we will essentially get nothing. Taxes and duties that could be used as a tool to improve air pollution, above all, must be slippery. The state must be involved in a sliding taxi system, in the sense that the polluter that reduces pollution also has a reduced fee, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that by cutting state taxes, it will be the one that stimulates every polluter to find his economic interest and that, on the basis of his economic interest, he does the story that is called – environmental protection. Thus, by collecting fees, by stimulating economic effects, polluters everywhere in the world have significantly changed their attitude to environmental pollution, which is also the goal of this proposal. Therefore, in this concept, if we want to catch up with the world, we will also have to reanalyze the part that is envisaged, which is something new in the law, the system – the polluter pays. The second point, which we should have received in the information, is the state of our water streams, the pollution of rivers, is immediately the fundamental question – whether we are solving it with this law, which is a united protection of all our resources, because the Ministry of Science and Environment under its authority must have protection, sooner or later, in this country, both air, water streams and land. Such a problem cannot be solved separately, because it is inconclusive for the protection of water to be in the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs, because we have a conflict of interest on the one hand, an environmentalist or a security guard with its own special way of thinking and concept, and on the other hand we have the understanding and experience of water as some economic resource from which some economic gain should be exhausted. So until we solve this problem of united protection, water, air, land and everything else in the system, we will still have an unspeakable story and an unspeakable law, so that we can definitely solve everything. Land pollution, too, in terms of uncontrollable use of herbicides, pesticides and everything else, has led to serious problems that this law must also point to and give an advanced perspective and strategy, how to solve this, because this is a serious issue which, due to the increase in cancer and everything else, has a significant share. The state of the dump, the waste, the transport of waste, all of this here had to be given through information that we know what kind of land we are in and how to even think about this law to support or not to support it, to see it as something declarative, in terms of different definitions, suggestions, explaining what certain concepts mean, or to view it as a first step in solving and creating a serious strategy, a national strategy in solving environmental protection. We also had to get many answers about the state of nature, protected natural resources. Protected natural goods today are in a very difficult state. They are threatened with destruction, the state has no money to revitalise, both significant bars and other protected areas that can fail during a period of time, if not significantly intervened. A concession that we believe is justified and that we think might contribute to improving quality, it is a concession to certain protected natural goods. Certain protected natural resources that represent spaces of particular national interest are today brought into a position of endangered survival due to a difficult economic situation. Such spaces that represent habitats of extremely rare plant and animal species are very important from the aspect of scientific, ecological and tourist potential. These spaces could represent places to bring in a large number of experts, nature lovers and tourist visitors. Because of the economic situation, we cannot do this, we think it is necessary to launch a significant international concession on such protected natural resources, according to all our plans and programmes for the given area. By giving concessions to the numbered and similar protected natural goods, we would preserve them and improve them, provide financial resources to invest in Serbia's environment, move life over those areas, and all of this easier and better present all of Serbia's beauty. So this concept, when it comes to nature, is something that we think right now, because of overcoming our economic opportunities and the inability to solve it, would be something that we need to put into one significant strategy, a national development strategy. Therefore, a report must also be given here when it comes to information by health care, health care, in terms of how environmental pollution affects the health of the population and where the most vital problems, especially NATO bombings and genetic malformations that have recently occurred as a result of permanent environmental damage. We had to get information about how inspection services work, what problems they are going through, whether it's feasible or not in the field, what it is that they need to be given as an increased authority so that they can repressively edit that space in Serbia. Finally, education, the development of consciousness, etc., is all a complex report that was to be given to MPs and build their views on it, how they will decide and what conclusions they will draw. The other thing that matters here is what kind of law we had, what was quality in the 1991 law, what was it that time in some distance did, what was supposed to change, whether he was like being enforceable or not, what in that lifetime was missing so that we could figure out whether this law was ever going to be able to implement and whether he's carrying some kind of life or he's just something that's going to be on paper, and because of some other objective, subjective or other reasons, it's not going to be what we expect of him. As part of this, it was certainly necessary to analyse the state of our economy, the possibilities of how all of this is reflected in the privatisation process and everything else that is important to think about whether there are any problems that prevent us from achieving what we all want in this congregation, which is to improve the environment. We have this significant problem that, in terms of the functioning of this system, we have installed ourselves, the omnibus by law on AP Vojvodina, the environmental protection system has divided into three parts. You're not going to find that anywhere in the world because you have a system of one global thinking and you have a local function in terms of solving the problem at the bar, practically local self-government units. We have now set up something that is completely illogical, which is some third story, an autonomous province that is now taking over some responsibilities. We have a completely divided situation and it's very difficult to function in it, it's now a classic example to see how unnecessary that law was and that it bothers him more. We have the awakening of democracy, we have the duplication of plans, we have the duplication of programmes, we have everything that is unnecessary, which citizens now pay, and we wouldn't have to pay for, because nothing quality in the environment in Vojvodina is happening, except that the citizens of Vojvodina are taking additional funds to satisfy, above all the red tape that's multiplied, which does nothing but invent what they're going to do to prove their need for existence. (President: Mr. Blazic, will you use the other ten minutes? Yes. What's important in this whole story is an analysis of how strangers behave with us. In the EU, laws are rigorous when it comes to environmental protection. It would be necessary, through the privatisation process, to emphasize exactly what it is that those who buy some of our factories in such a way, to do that space would be improved and it could not be said that it is still under the same story as it was before privatisation. The question of eco-signs, that's a very serious question. I think Article 53 of the Law emphasizes his introduction. That's not how an introduction can be done. Before introducing an eco-label, a serious study should be carried out that implies what this eco-label and how its application will reflect, first of all, on the market, when it comes to favouring some producers, some products, how it will affect imports, according to exports, and what we are actually getting, what we are losing. The eco-label is one marketing category and may have elements of a very significant impact on the customer, in terms of definition or non-determination. It's something that's a pretty big bite. It's nice that he's being embezzled, which is predicted, which is what he thinks, but before that means a serious analysis, because that eco-labelling, again, I'm undersinuating, can be for some favoring, especially not giving instruments to give someone confirmation that he's getting some kind of sign that it's ecological. What are our habits in Serbia, it is often given according to various criteria that are certainly not ecological, or political, or other things. I'm afraid we're still immature for that. In any case, let it be a way of saying that we're getting into that story and that one day maybe we'll get to it in quality. We come in a position where the law corresponds to local self-government, something that is most important, in terms of trying to decentralisation Serbia, and now on this case how ready we are or how not ready to do what is called decentralisation. There's always talk of decentralisation, until we're in a position to apply, but then the administration or any ministry, the government in particular, is always looking to preserve both the funds and some of its competences, counting and justifying that it's cheaper, more quality, etc. The fact is that environmental damage, first of all, occurs in local self-government. The system of local self-government is something that leads to a global analysis of the situation throughout Serbia. Therefore, resolution should happen in local self-government. In the system, I can't remember exactly which member, where the funds are projected, though, for the first time any more significant funds for local self-government, I think again we have a system of centralised stories, that 40% of what the polluter pays to the state, and 60% to local self-government. That's where the government showed one correct and tolerated story. The proposal even included 60% going to the state and 40% to local self-government. Since it's about Panchev, I'm going to talk about Kikinda, what's the situation, first of all, with regard to Naftagas or NIS towards the environment in Kikinda, that oil production is 55% on the territory of Kikinda, that the environment of decades is being exploited, that so much production is being put out in relation to all others, that there are, that I'm not saying what amount of flushing, that there are 30 wells in the construction zone in Kikinda. The attitude towards local self-government is catastrophic. What happens then is a disaster, that a municipality that has been so isolated for this country and for years gives it, suddenly it happens to shut down the gas for three days for citizens who are neither guilty nor obliged, because some social enterprise is liable to the supplier – NIS gas. In relation to citizens, it is evident that monopolies or people who, using the state monopoly, can be treated in such a way as to treat local self-government or citizens in that territory. I think this law is fixing something, but not enough, so there's still going to be a lot of work on it and it's going to be realized that all those who use someone's environment have to pay for it or at least have to deal with it correctly without allowing such a thing to happen. The question here now is how to provide funding for this law and how we could still provide resources to protect the environment and the environment in general. That's a significant question, in terms of two basic pillars that need to work. On one side of the economy, on the other side of the economy. Everything else is less significant. The synchronization of this story is something that is, in fact, the right way to solve many problems. Our ecology should, in turn, give some of its contribution to what I've just recorded here, which is that we haven't organised enough as a state to use protected plant and animal species, which is a huge export potential. In order to reduce pressure on the economy, we could through the lending of farm, plantation of medicinal plants and others, for which Serbia has an extraordinary climate and an extraordinary country, to achieve revenues that could then be used purposely in solving significant problems in the environment. The second thing is our relationship for profit, our relationship to the bio mass that can and must be better exploited, both in terms of briquettes and in terms of composting and creating hummus to provide additional resources so that we can finance these problems that we have pointed out and which are visible. The third thing nobody mentions, which should be the source of the biggest income in the environment, is compensation for the consequences of NATO bombing. The consequences of NATO bombings are terrible and no one has the right to explain and that justice that there was any international right to do so. They can say – we bombed, you deserved, you didn't deserve, we shouldn't have, but no one in the world has the right to say that weapons or ammunition could have been used with poor uranium, that, in practice, nuclear war against Yugoslavia. I'll read you how much damage there is in the environment from the bombing, based on the analysis and assessment report in war damage, which the United Nations has accepted through its expert team, which it has watched, because their methodology and their prices have been applied. The total damage to the environment by NATO's aggressor is 4.258,237,000 dollars. It's a shame, and everything else that can't be expressed materially stays and can never be charged. Insisting on the compensation of the actions of this damage, insisting on a lawsuit, insisting on something called our moral right to say as people that all international conventions have been violated, that NATO's aggressor should not have used it, that a terrible aggression against people and against our environment has been committed, is something that we must all constantly seek together and condition that much of what has been done in the environment is being remedied by these means. I'm afraid in the last two or three years, we haven't worked on it at all, and we should keep working on it, because it's a significant asset that we can make up for a lot of things. So to sum up what I consider to be the most important -- how do you do it, what are the procedures and what are the steps? I think this is just the first step. We have to move on. Bringing a national environmental strategy, number one -- unifying the protection of all natural resources, number two -- using what is called economic possibilities, number three -- if we go on an ecological sign, then we have to do it somehow united with the European Union, because without them, it's not worth doing. The other thing that matters, it's education, something that's slow, permanent, but only high-quality, insisting that ecology enters education, the first grade of primary school, that this environmental consciousness develops, and even in preschool institutions, to create generations that will far more responsible, far more honest, more humane, ultimately civilised towards their environment. These are some of the possible directions. Anyway, I don't mean to say it, but I feel like there's still a conflict of administration and profession in this law. He's feeling a little bit. He tried to avoid it, he was partially avoided, but she still sort of bred the story and tried the administration to dominate it, and that the waist was always put into another plan. I remember in 2000, the Ministry then had 64 employees, and today the Ministry has 300 employees. I think it takes 300 people to find a job and look for a job then the waist is always pushed aside, and it's just trying to be dominant. Maybe that's not the reason, maybe it's just someone, maybe it's just my thinking, but in any case, our position is that this law represents a step forward, but still an insufficient step. We think that in the next period, based on our suggestions and suggestions, by adopting a framework for a national strategy, we will be able to take a bigger step, so one day we, as other developed countries, will be in a position to protect our environment in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9765	Do any of the other representatives want a word? The word is from Mr Ivan Zivadinović, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9766	Gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the right to a healthy environment is a constitutionally guaranteed right of every citizen of Serbia, but it is probably one of the most frequently violated rights and almost always without sanctions. I will remind you that the environmental protection programme is in the programmes of all political parties, but always regularly on the last pages of these programmes. The previous 1991 Environmental Protection Act was followed by hundreds of regulations governing specific areas, but such a massive system could not bring environmental protection into line. The existing environmental protection system has uncoordinated plans and decisions and has almost no coordination among levels of responsibility. By passing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, which are fully in line with the UN declaration on the environment and development and the 21st-century programme known as Agenda 21, Serbia will be one step closer to EU membership. There are different ways of organising environmental resolution ministries in most countries, but the problems of solving inherited pollution and controlling new pollution are the same for all. The aim is to integrate economic and environmental objectives and favour preventive action. That is why Serbia needs to get an efficient environmental protection system, because we need it for new investment projects and foreign capital entry into our country. These laws should not stop Serbia's development, but rather stimulate it with the planned use of natural resources, goods and energy. The environmental law is based on 11 principles. This is the principle of integrity, predicting mutually agreed plans and environmental protection programmes at all levels, the principle of prevention and precautionaryness that planned activities must be such as to cause the least possible change in the environment. Then comes the principle of preserving natural values, the principle of sustainable development, which provides for harmonised interests in environmental protection and economic development interests, the principle of responsibility of polluters and their legal follower, and this will be particularly interesting in the privatisations that follow, because when the change of ownership is required to assess the situation in the environment, so that we do not have a situation that was in the Czech Republic that due to unregulated relations in this area, the state has to allocate $4.5 billion to solve these problems, which is the one-year budget of the Republic of Serbia. The principle – the polluter pays environmental pollution compensation – the consumer pays the principle, where everyone who uses natural goods is obliged to pay a real price for using space, the principle of subsidiarity responsibility in the case of an unknown polluter and cross-border pollution, the consequences are removed by state authorities. The principle of applying incentive measures where the government at all levels uses its capacities to improve the state of the environment itself, the principle of information and public participation, each has the right to be informed of the state of the environment and the principle of protection of the right to a healthy environment and access to justice. Of course, respect for these principles, the making of these laws is not only a good will and a reflection of the expertise and the security of the environment, but our obligation to the international community, because Serbia can and must respect its obligations on this subject. The largest number of laws to be passed in the coming period in order to look like Europe is precisely from this area. In order for Serbia to join the EU, about 80,000 regulations need to be adopted and 30% of them are from environmental protection. It is important to note that these laws will also be accompanied by a national strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods, and brought to a period of 10 years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A significant difference from the current arrangement of this area is that responsibility for environmental protection will be borne by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the future, not by the ministry. The environmental law provides for the protection of natural resources, therefore, land, water, but also strictly controlled imports and exports and protected species of fauna, so as not to re-emerge affairs over the export of birds. No noise protection, vibrations and ionic radiation and waste has been ignored, but all these problems will soon be subject to special laws that will process both areas in detail. The laws foresee rigorous control of existing technologies, but also high criteria for the use of new technologies, so that we do not see Serbia becoming an industrial cemetery of Europe in the future. The paper is also the introduction of an ecological sign that will be able to carry products of general consumption, other than food, drink and pharmaceutical products that are less polluting the environment in the production, placement and consumption or are obtained by recycling of waste. Of course, those who abuse this sign will have to pay a fine of up to a million dinars or serve in prison for 30 days. For the implementation of these standards to be monitored, a monitoring system has been planned on the whole country's territory, which will be parallel to the state through an authorised organisation, but also polluters will be required to provide financial resources for these plans. For the sake of more efficient data processing, an information system will be established that will be run by the Environment Protection Agency and an integrated polluter cadastre. The government will be obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once a year, and the law provides for the provision of information on request, with the applicant carrying out the information delivery costs. This excludes only information of interest for the defence of the country and security, which is also the case with EU countries. The adoption of these laws will not cause honey and milk in Serbia. The irresponsibility of individuals and businesses, according to the environment, will continue to exist, but we hope that the fines of three million dinars for legal persons, for economic crimes and up to a million dinars for violations, as well as fines of up to 200,000 dinars or 30 days prisons for entrepreneurs and natural persons, for perpetrators of crime against nature, will bring many senses. The environmental law will not only be a foundation, but a walled house, and the laws that follow it will be windows, doors and missing furniture. From a building to a comfortable home, the distance is great, but the longest journey begins with a step. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the G17 Plus Group will support this law, and not only this law, but all future members of the Ministry of Environment Protection, because we care about Serbia joining the EU as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9767	The word is by MP Miloje Savic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9768	Ladies and gentlemen, I am hereby authorised to present on behalf of the SPS Group a position on this set of laws which is very important to our country. I would like first to point out the need to take an immediate step forward in Serbia in terms of environmental protection in relation to the current situation, and especially in relation to practice, to ensure consistency for the sake of man and his needs and nature and its capacities. We think that these laws are a good basis for the need for a healthy environment, that both the current and future generations, reconcile their right to the environment, as well as a good basis for creating an integrated system that will valorise Serbia's natural values, change their relationship with them and establish sustainable management without monopoly, either in use or in decision-making. It is therefore impossible not to point out responsibility because of unnecessary time and the consequences of this failure resulting from the existing situation and practice. The laws are particularly acceptable if they are compared to earlier attempts and intentions to edit this matter. The proposed system is based on a balanced division of competences between the government, the autonomous province authorities and local self-government contrary to the concentration of power at the ministry or even in the hands of the minister. Administrative and professional affairs are distinguished and it is ensured that professional institutions are truly involved in the system of environmental protection, that volunteering and arbitration of the administration are disabled, so recognizable in the earlier period. A special quality compared to earlier attempts is to ensure public participation, and that is to say to the general public, in all stages of planning and decision-making through appropriate legislation, not the act of the minister, built-in mechanisms. For us, it is an acceptable and proposed legal and technical approach that has resulted in the proposal of four laws. First, because in this way a consistent and comparative implementation of the relevant European Union directives is carried out in national legislation, and because we are fully aware that the law on the protection of the environment is systematic. The other three laws are not considered technical, nor should we believe that their matter should have been left to make the minister by its act. We do not consider it because of the need to build a coherent and consistent system, nor because of the possibility of frequent and unnecessary needs, nor because of the need for legal certainty, nor because of the duty to ensure the proper insight and impact of the highest public in the process of adopting these three types of acts, and especially because of the extremely significant acts that allow and provide for ecological prevention, i.e. the identification and detection of the causes that threaten the environment at the source itself, and the consensual importance of acts on the rights and obligations of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not of the minister to regulate this matter. That is why we believe that such a perceived system of protection constitutes a significant deviation from the previously proposed and eliminates the possibility that, in view of the need for efficiency or for sustainable development, management of natural goods and values in an overall commitment to transparency, it is actually out of the public eye and that it concentrates in the hands of an individual or group, even if it is the minister or ministry and ensuring that citizens and institutions of the Republic of Serbia take care of their environment. The proposed concept of course has its own shortcomings, and we see them primarily in the segment of economic instruments, i.e. in the part of the projection of the source and the amount of funds that are the revenue of the local self-government budget, and we estimate that the proposal unwarrantedly and needlessly carries out the concentration of funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The environmental protection system cannot be built if citizens, either as individuals or through the institutions of local self-government, cannot actively and effectively take care of their own environment, if the citizen and local environment are not a true subject to the protection of their environment. Therefore, the failure to provide adequate economic instruments at local level can become a serious lack of the overall concept, the citizen to distance himself from his rights and needs, and the rights and obligations of local self-government in this area make it practically impregnable. The understanding of the promoters and the willingness to accept certain amendments encourages and assures that in the further process of adopting individual laws, new stable sources and the necessary amount of resources will be provided, in order to ensure that care and care for the healthy environment are effective administrations where problems arise. Here I especially mean further operationalization of the principle - the pay user. Finally, after this we expect and seek new steps, quick and determined, brave to break up with bankruptcy positions and established ways of thinking, motivated by the need to protect and improve Serbia's environment, and based on the nobility of the mission entrusted to both us and the promoter. In line with the above, I am informing the Assembly and the promoter that the SPS parliamentary group will accept the proposals of these four laws in principle by making its contribution through the amendments to their drafting.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9769	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Does the minister want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of Members of Parliament have submitted all parliamentary groups. The word has a People's MP, Miroljub Maric, and let MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9770	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of environmental laws ahead of us, and I, as a man who has been dealing with medicine for years, a specialist in pulmonary diseases, and who is extremely concerned with the healthiest environment, want to express one of my personal optimism that after the adoption of this law, we will have a much better quality and healthier environment. In its pre-election promises, the G17 plus party advocated a hard regulation on the environment. I can see that all the other political parties in their pre-election programmes had a mouthful of environmentalism. Maybe it's kind of the hottest topic to score political points. But the problem arises when it is located, so when a resolution program is created and nothing is done. Unfortunately, here's the place. So far, local authorities have always talked a lot and promised a lot in the bar, and nothing more significant has happened in terms of handling the environmental situation. We are witnessing many dumps totally unregulated. Unfortunately, from our forests, our words, we make a stream of mini-deposits, and it's already intruding into one of our people's moral traits. Most of us were thrilled to travel across Europe, watch the landscapes, admire it, and when we returned to our country, we all wanted our Serbia to look the same. In earlier times, we compared ourselves to the environment, compared ourselves to our neighbours, so we knew to be arrogant and to say that we were better than the Bulgarians, better than the Romanians, so we pretended to be better than the Albanians from Kosovo. I am a participant in the war in Kosovo and believe that our environment reminds us very much of Kosovo that during the war and before the war was a big waste dump precisely because of the non-civilization behaviour of the population. I apologize if anyone gets hurt. I would like to move specifically on to the laws that are in the procedure and again to say that I am expressing my personal optimism that these laws will contribute, as well as the laws of the Ministry of Health, and we are witnessing that we have recently adopted the Law on Sanitary Control, we have passed the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, so that in one set with environmental laws we have a chance to not only on words but on one action we act preventively to preserve health and the environment. There are four laws ahead of us, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and the Environmental Protection Act. These laws complement each other. I would like to appeal to the MPs to be unique and to support this law, no matter what tones we hear, critical tones. Every honor to people who are much more intense and more detailed in this problem, but we must all go together to simply correct what is not good and not to be too strict in assessing the bill, but simply to be on one front, to be together, through the law, to go into the realisation of what the law provides. The complexity, complexity and interdependence of phenomena and processes in the environment requires an integrated approach for the normative editing of this area. The adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Environment imposes a need to adopt uniform regulations at the level of all Serbia, as well as compliance with international legislation and institutional organisation. The aim of the law is, normally, to bring the criteria of environmental protection into line with the European Union. Environmental protection is planned without delaying the development of our country, but rather by encouraging and stimulating development in new conditions of rejuvenation. That's where I'd like to be easily criticized. We don't want to go back and we don't want to dig into our history, we want to talk about what's wrong, we want to just go into trouble. However, I would like to stress that some of our planned agreed economies have looked very broadly through the fingers of certain environmental pollutants, and then it went by logic - come on, let's not punish it and that it polluted the environment, but we'll simply let it survive, and this, as Col. Comic said, we'll get a little divorce, to loosen it up and we'll push further. But we can't do that anymore. We're going to need new businessmen, new entrepreneurs and this privatisation process to make people who generate profits that necessarily certain funds have to plan to protect the environment and make sure that what they're ruining, and what they're corrupting, they have to fix. The environmental law determines the subjects of the environmental protection system and their obligations. It is good that the law also provides for certain obligations of local self-government, and normal and means for the work of those authorities of local self-government. The law lays down the precise principles of environmental protection, which all entities should adhere to. The specific chapter regulates the management of natural values, planning and protection of natural values. The law then provides for measures and conditions for environmental protection, preventive action, standards and systems to manage environmental protection. As part of all the actions foreseen by the Environmental Protection Act, it is very important to monitor the state of the environment through monitoring, informing and public participation. We're also witnessing that. The negative trends from earlier, from our past, that certain dangerous incidents and contaminants were hidden at times. In order to ensure the implementation of this law, economic instruments are also envisaged. It's funding environmental protection. It's not meaningless at all. On the contrary, this funding will also take place through the various fees the law provides for to be prescribed by environmental protection entities, then the funds from the government of Serbia's budget, normally through the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. Further, international financial assistance is foreseen, and funding of the Environment Fund is ultimately foreseen. The environmental law provides for responsibility for environmental pollution, then inspection through inspectors and determines the authority of inspectors to offenders. Penalties are also provided for in the form of commercial offences and violations for non-compliance with the provisions of this law. By satisfying the needs of the present generation, we must not endanger the right of future generations to protect the environment, on the same level, and we all hope on a higher level. The G17 Group of MPs plus will vote in favour of this law, and again I reiterate one optimism that this government and our ministries think and want to deal seriously with population problems and normally think about Serbia's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9771	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9772	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, fear of environmental pollution, which is second on the list of fears among Serbian citizens, following the existential fear of job loss, and therefore the country's ecological policy must be directed and formulated through the choice of Serbian citizens to draw closer to better life and to the positive results of highly developed countries in this area. The man uses all the resources he can get his hands on, not taking into account the capacity of the environment. The man first uses resources and only when they begin to disappear starts to think about what he does when he loses them. A natural balance disorder influenced by technical and technological development began in the 17th century by the industrial revolution. From that time on, industrial development, agriculture and urbanisation are emerging rapidly. The pollution of the environment has, by its size, species and consequences, been such a situation that it has become a preoccupation of all mankind. The development of awareness of the degree of environmental degradation, which is one factor in the development of humanity, also included the first organisations to combat environmental degradation. The first international UN conference on the human environment was held in 1972 in Stockholm and brought to it a declaration on the human environment. The principle of the 2nd declaration is: the country's natural resources, including air, water, land, flora and fauna, particularly representative natural ecosystems, must be preserved for the sake of current and future generations by carefully planning and managing." So that was 1972. We skip an entire period and 20 years later, a UN conference on the environment and development took place in Rio De Janeiro in 1992, where a declaration on the environment and development was made. The declaration constitutes 27 principles that are the starting point for establishing a new, global partnership system between countries with regard to the protection and management of natural resources for the development and conservation of biodiversity, as well as the ecological management of biotechnology. Environmental protection, operational knowledge, is a set of measures and procedures used to implement and protect the environment, in a state that ensures the survival and normal functioning of the eco-system and bio-sphere. Where is Serbia today? Mrs Gordana Comic, authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, has already said about this development and relation to environmental protection globally, taking into account the entire planet. We're somewhere in Europe in the '70s. So it's at the level of the 1970s in developed countries, and our laws are written in the early 1990s. What this legal set suggests today is in front of the MPs of the Republika Srpska parliament. He proposes the Law on the Protection of the Environment. These are three regulations that have been converted into laws, in co-operation with the ministry of foreign affairs of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro. It is a project to develop rules on environmental protection and three regulations, rules on environmental impact assessment, rules on strategic environmental impact assessment and rules on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, have been converted into laws. We believe that they could have stayed at the level of the regulations, precisely because life imposes certain solutions and which will be much more difficult to change the laws in some way than it would have been in the rule-law situation. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is basically a law on a system of environmental protection that was prepared in the previous assembly, prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources in 2003 and which was made under the project "Development, legislation in the field of the environment", which was also implemented with the help of the Finnish government. These three laws were fully prepared by the previous government, these three regulations, which I was talking about, and the government made laws about them. The law is the basic and indicative text of an 80% prescribed bill on the environmental protection system that has been done and handed over to the current government by the previous government. In addition to what these three texts of these regulations have been prescribed, we think that some changes have been made. Let me just say around these regulations are left out some tables, organic license forms, etc. which were part of these regulations. What the previous government has well prepared, and also because of Serbia's future and the interests of Serbian citizens, must indicate what is left out and what are directly negative consequences for Serbian citizens. The DS, arguing that Serbian citizens have better living conditions and the environment as it is in European countries, must show, and it is before the MPs the responsibility to hear us, that the country's natural resources and resources must be given honestly for use, so that they remain both for our children and for future generations. Without our amendments, this basic law remains at the level of exploitation of natural resources, and in this part to the harm of Serbian citizens. So, above all, it refers to the sustainable use of resources and those concerns that are in one hand and knife and cakes, that someone prescribes both the terms of use and who uses, who collects and who pollutes. So, the monopoly is being realized and potentially this could be the cause of corruption. We will support these laws in the situation if the DS amendments are accepted, and these amendments can be classified as three groups of amendments. We are looking for amendments to establish conditions for sustainable use of resources. So far, it's a case to case, no systematic access. Resources are water, mineral raw materials, forests, game hunting, fish etc. And we meet the requirement of citizens who were clear when the previous government, with the help of the OSCE, included citizens in writing the law that what I just said was done separate the knife from the cake. The second group of amendments is that we are establishing a more efficient approach to the way of life that citizens in EU countries have, a cleaner and healthier environment, a greater step, a bigger vision, a greater improvement for citizens of Serbia. Among other things, by establishing the right Environment Agency, because the Environment Protection Agency is part of the Ministry of Science and Environment Protection and is controlled by the minister, and should represent an independent expert control body for the ministry's work. Third group of amendments, we want to contribute to the amendments to make this law realistic. So, the transitional deadlines, the sudden imposition of industry, because it's supposed to have no period in which industry needs to adapt, because it's only a year old. I come from Vrbaba City, which is literally marked as one black dot ecological on a map. The verbas is a food center, it was a kitchen where 50 years of food was prepared. Vital, Carnex Sugar, and that kitchen hasn't been cleaned for 50 years. It was poured into a large bacca canal and industrial waste from a willow factory, but also from a nearby tower. Directly polluting not only four municipalities, such as Kula, Vrbas, Srbobran, Vienna, but also the entire Podunavski plum. In that channel that runs through the Vrbas, there's literally no water. There are heavy metals, lead, etc. It has just made a 300,000-euro donation to the Czech deconta an analysis of this mud, where it was found alongside waste of organic origin, and heavy metals, which directly threaten the health of the population and have been observed that the population living in an area near the canal suffers from disease primarily from cancer. We have launched something from a dead end despite the fact that in some way this legislation has not been passed, but with the help of Europe we have run some things off a dead end. More specifically, the local self-government in the previous term established co-operation with the Norwegian government, with the Norwegian Water Institute "Niva", received 1.3m euros in donations and the project to address the pollution of the Great Bac Channel is due to be completed in January of next year. So we can actually look for an opportunity to solve this huge ecological problem. By passing the law, we participate actively in the strategy of drawing up a national ecological plan from top to bottom, from international regulations, conditions and requirements. But it is equally important to develop an active environment policy, committed to the summit, by drawing up local ecological action plans. I must say that the Vrbska Municipality has entered into the construction of a local ecological action plan along with the municipalities of Valjevo, Čačak, Bujanovac and the Borska district in which Bor, Kladovo, Majdanpek and Negotin are located. That we are in co-operation with the European Agency for Reconstruction of Competitiveisation of Collector Resolution. An investment worth close to 2m euros and the project has been assessed by high estimates. However, we hear that for some reasons it is not signed, because there are partners from the European Agency for Reconstruction, Local Self-Government and Environmental Protection, i.e. the Ministry of Science and Technology and Environmental Protection.' I think it should have ended with Mr. Peterson, because it's the key to having an ecological problem concrete, because we're going to be able to not only waste water, the sewerage to attach to that big collector, and that collector is so dimensioned that one day it's connected to the neighboring municipality of the Tower, but we're also going to be able to get a piece of waste water from the industry into that collector to let go and then solve the secondary purifier and solve the problem the way it was solved in highly developed countries. I expect from the Environmental Protection Administration and this Ministry an active relationship in solving and specific problems, such as this problem, especially because we had very good co-operation with the Norwegian government, the Norwegian Water Institute Niva. We expect the completion of this major project in January 2005, and we expect concrete results from the development of a local ecological action plan involving citizens of the Vrbas municipality, so that this large food factory cleans up the largest open-air septic cave in Europe called the Great Back Channel. I hope that the amendments proposed by DS-Boris Tadic will be accepted and that by passing the law we will participate actively in the strategy of drawing up a national ecological plan for the benefit of all citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9773	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirovic. The People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic has the word, so let the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have today a set of environmental laws in front of us. Of course, there is a question of the necessity of passing such laws. Any serious state that seriously thinks and thinks about its future, about protecting the environment, is necessary to have one quality law that guarantees full protection of flora and fauna and the environment. Back then, we had an inheritance where social property dominated, and as soon as something was social, it was nothing, in a way it was not respected, and our consciousness was not at that level, and it was not so developed that we had to respect and protect the environment for the future of all future generations. The attitude of individuals to the environment in recent times has been extremely boastful. Of course, this haughtiness is manifested today and if we want to integrate with the European Community, then we must also accept European standards and have a quality law that will absolutely enable environmental protection. What regulates this law? This law fully regulates the relationship to the environment, flora and fauna and the way we should treat ourselves, so that we can root out in countries that know how to value and protect what they have and what is the greatest national treasure, which is the protection of the environment. What's new in this law that maybe in the past laws that were gone? The new establishment of the fund is also very important, which is the relationship between local self-government and the Republic. There have been funds in the Republic before, but local self-government had a very small percentage of these funds. What's good is that today local self-government has 60 percent, and the republics have 40 percent apart, and these funds are used, both in local areas to compensate for possible damages. What is very important, which in the previous period was not, which is that all economic operators dealing with the transport of dangerous substances or the processing of hazardous substances and which can pollute the environment are obliged to ensure themselves, if environmental damage occurs, compensation for the damage that has been done. This law, which is more infringing, despite this law, the Republic of Serbia also has a Criminal Law that also regulates environmental protection, is very important that this law is implemented in some way in our society. Law enforcement so far has not been enough, and in the past, we have passed many laws, but these laws have not been respected. That's why law enforcement is very important. Of course, in addition to law enforcement, education of our population, education, and how and why it is necessary to protect the environment and environment in which each individual lives should be educated. I think that this culture of life, the way of behavior and behavior in one environment is very important and that what many of us have been missing in some past period. Maybe we weren't even aware, maybe we didn't even know we appreciated what we had, but the time ahead absolutely tells us that all the potential and all the resources this country has, we have to put on the market, we have to respect what we have, and we know that certain resources, such as healthy and drinking water, will be worth a fortune in the future and worth gold. I am sure this law will produce many sublaws that will regulate certain areas, based on this law closer and more detailed. I want to say why it's necessary to have a set of laws like this. Let's remember in the near past what happened in Topoli when there was water pollution. The Kragujevac has one river. She's not that big, but she's very important to Kragujevac. That river has no living organisms. This Lepenica is once again poured into another river, poured into Morava, and then, despite the fact that wastewater treatment exists, I'm sure it's not enough and that many heavy metals go to Morava. What I can blame this law is that these are legal provisions, i.e. The punishments are terribly low and extremely small. Maybe someone will criticise the height of these fines, but I think these penalties are extremely small, so I'll say that for a legal person, it's a fine of 300 to a million dinars. Of course, I think it was necessary to put in this law some other restrictions. What happens if a company releases dangerous substances knowingly or unconsciously. I believe that in some past period there have been many times aware of the release of certain dangerous substances into our water streams, because the preservation, storage and processing of these hazardous substances is much more expensive than the punishment provided for such discharge has been regulated by law. I think it's necessary for certain offenders to be sanctioned, otherwise sanctioned, and possibly necessary, as in the Fiscalization Act, when one is sold without a fiscal bill, a fine of 100,000 dinars is paid, another fine is 300,000 dinars, but the third is a bonding company. I find these fines mild. It may seem to some that they are high, but make sure that fishermen who are very often on water know the best condition of our waters in our Serbia. It's sad to see the murder of fish and to have sanctions so minor that it's a fine of 100,000 dinars or a million dinars. What is good in this law is that there is an insurance company and an obligation for those who pollute the ecological environment to compensate for the damage, but I don't see in this law how and how an even assessment of damage and damage is done. I think and believe that in some way sublaws, the Ministry may regulate it, so that those who pollute the water streams and make the fish kill are somehow sanctioned to be obliged to for at least three, four or five years have to fish that area. That's very important for Serbia. Serbia is a country that has many resources that are not being used at this time, but believe that healthy nature, healthy water in the future will mean a lot and that Serbia will benefit greatly in the development of tourism and, of course, have an advantage over other countries in our environment. So I want to praise one of these laws, but of course, I appeal to the Ministry to consider how and how this law will be implemented, that this law does not end as many laws that have been passed, so you have a law on smoking and ban smoking in closed rooms, and then you see members of the Government and the Government that don't respect it, and then they say individuals – when they don't respect the one who brought it, why should I respect it. You have another law, which is also useful and passed, and that's the Act on selling alcohol to minors. Of course, you can see that those 12-13-year-old kids can buy alcohol, get drunk. It is simply what is ugly – when a law is passed, and never experiences its application. The NS and the SPO will surely support this law in a warm way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9775	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger Bojan Kekić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this environmental law, with the proposal of three accompanying laws, will be good if the situation in the future, such as in Paracino from two years ago, to solve the state and ministry quickly, and to adequately punish the culprits and the consequences of the ecological incident to be solved. When I say Paracino, I mean Pancevo, Majdanpek, Shabac, Kostolac, Dremnova, Lazarus. Minister, while you're here, let me tell you about the environmental incident two years ago in Paracino. Now she's a two-year anniversary of that incident. The ministry was officially engaged in March 2004. In addition to applying for a commercial offense and a criminal report, so to this day, nothing has been done on the grounds of recovery, because the barrels are still there. This law provides for the right to concessions, i.e. the use of natural resources, which belongs directly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The ministry remains to be agreed on by the projects under which the exploitation of natural resources is carried out. Unlike the former government's earlier proposal, when the bill, which was not passed, fortunately, gave the right to use natural resources belonged exclusively to the Minister for Environmental Protection, today it is arranged differently, which I think is a better solution. In the section – principles and protection of the environment, certain principles are set out which in some ways define certain concepts in the field of the environment. Principle – the polluter pays, sounds nice, but is it practical for us today? It's hard for someone to get the big contaminants to pay for the damage caused to the environment. These are usually bankruptcy companies, without the means to improve technology that will be able to maintain emission and image limits or, however, companies that are privatised and have some legal mechanisms to protect themselves against the consequences of applying this law, saying the outdated technology in the process of production. The principle of public information is, in my opinion, indeterminate and ensued. I ask you what it means that everyone has the right to be informed. Anyone can be a NATO pact, and Javier Solana and Stipe Mesic. By the amendment I have made, I have suggested a change of attitude, but you, unfortunately, have not accepted it. The meaning of the term also deserves a comment, especially point 23, which regulates the term "udes". Why aren't nuclear accidents, genetically modified organisms, transporting dangerous substances? They're just potential sources of environmental disasters and we're not undermining them under this common category of accidents. Article 13 regulates the place of local self-government when it comes to natural resources. For example, how can local self-government bring about a plan to manage natural resources and good resources, when it is in the government's jurisdiction? I'm afraid, thanks to this member, there will be a face-up of government and local self-government, of course, to the harm of local self-government. One general assessment of this law is the indetermination of deadlines and the absence of regulations and sublaws, often referred to in most members of this law. Now, when a legal or physical person begins to comply with these laws, they will see that a good part of the accompanying regulations does not exist at all, and what exists can no longer be applied in modern times. So how do we start applying this law? In Article 123, a deadline of one year for harmonisation was left, which would appear to be difficult for many who come under the authority of this law. Article 25 speaks of forest protection and it is said that forest owners and users are obliged to take measures to preserve and maintain sustainable use of forests etc. Like, who's going to make the owners of the private woods destroy the lepers? What if some clean-cut forest administration destroys more departments in some landlady's unit? This is where it goes into the second ministry's portfolio, and it should be coordinated, who should react in such situations. Article 27 clarifies measures to protect flora and fauna in the Republic of Serbia. An example of the former government's behaviour, i.e. the competent ministry towards wild animals and birds, is known to all. Half a million killed birds were supposed to be brought out of the country illegally. So much action to catch, killing birds to remain undetected, it's simply unimaginable. One of the most important problems with us and in the world is the problem of waste. Article 30 shall regulate waste management issues. Waste owners are obliged to take measures to manage waste, as almost 80% of eco-accessibles and pollution are caused by inadequate or, more specifically, no waste management. This waste management menu for now looks like proper storage and keeping records of the type and quantity of waste. Otherwise, it is done by a very small number of enterprises, a waste producer in Serbia, through the process of production. With no recycling plant in Serbia, nor is there a recycling law, the question arises what about the waste. The state will either urgently regulate this issue or in 10 years it will be covered with waste. For waste to be burned, an even worse effect is being achieved because the harmful emissions and the image poses an even more direct threat to the environment and the lives of our citizens. In the Serbian Parliament, we presented a presentation in July of a project by a large regional recycling centre presented by experts from the Environmental Protection Authority. Such projects and similar projects should be realized in our country, as they are realized in the world. This section can also talk about alternative fuels, i.e. waste that can be used as fuel, based on energy savings, e.g. old tyres, waste oils, chemical waste, etc. Today in Serbia, such a thing would cause a real ecological disaster. This is done in the countries of the European Union, the United States and other countries in the developed world. What do you need to do here? The most modern air and water treatment filters that come from the process of production have already been installed in these technological processes. So they have a technological level to maintain emission and image limits. When our companies reach that level, it remains to be seen, but without built-in modern systems for water and air purification, as well as the setting up of monitoring, it must not be entered into such a dangerous adventure. Article 41. The environmental law also provides for limiting the work of the plant, while emission values are not brought to the level of satisfaction of the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation and are not limited to values. By applying this article 41, you can in practice close 90% of Serbia's manufacturing and processing companies, as they are unlikely to meet the standards set with their old technology. Article 57 refers to hazardous waste, i.e. imports of waste. It's a very sensitive question, given that dangerous waste includes nuclear waste that has not been mentioned here in a single word. As for imports of waste, imports of second-hand tyres, old devices and other types of waste should be severely banned, as this has turned Serbia into a major dump. If we add that to the inability to recycle, then we can only expect waste accumulation. It also provides for imports of waste that is necessary in production as secondary raw materials, although it can be a two-slice sword and can be rightly asked about the environmental correctness of the products obtained. Articles 69 and 73 provide for the introduction of a monitoring or continuous monitoring of the environmental situation. A very important fact for the protection of the environment as well as for the citizens of Serbia, primarily for the local population inhabited by large polluters, which are boilers, swimming pools, ironworks, cement plants, foundries, etc. Monitoring is followed by any change in the parameters of hazardous matter in the air, water and land. Any organisation that has a licence for emissions, as well as other actions in the field of environmental monitoring, if they abuse this right to give distorted facts, should be punished as well as the polluter himself and withdraw the work license. One of the objections to this law is the deadline provided for a year-long alignment. As far as environmental science is concerned, this will be very difficult to implement, given the lack of additional legislation and resources in most companies to provide funds in the production process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9777	The word has the People's MP Bojan Kekic, and let MP Dragoljub Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9778	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, the system law that is before us and a set of laws that define environmental protection among us is the responsibility that we have towards our own end, that is, towards the end that we represent in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I, above all, will not engage in the legal norm of these laws, look back at what is concrete and what threatens Braničevsky County. Someone just mentioned the Boner. The Kostolac region has significant energy potentials based on which large surface coal-exploitation boilers have been developed for more than 100 years and a powerful system of the Kostolac Termopower Plant, which is said to be dry. They have become a significant factor in environmental degradation. A large amount of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater that pollute water, air, land, underground and surface water is excreted daily. Taking up agricultural and forest land, drying out springs, water supply, transport and other infrastructures, eco-systems are further due to the application of the type of energy resource exploitation. Coal combustion in the Termoelectrics Kostolac creates huge amounts of ash that are partly released through the chimney, while the remaining amounts of about two million tonnes each year are delayed at the dump next to the Danube. The dump is not treated properly so that, in the most unfavourable direction of the wind, the whole area is covered by a large amount of ash containing heavy metals, which endangers the quality of land and groundwater, while the ash dump is not well protected and occasionally occurs. There was just mention of an ecological incident in 1999 where a dam broke at the dump, Stari Kostolac, 90% of the village, and all the courtyards were covered with ash. My information says that even to this day, the EPS has not compensated for the damage that people have suffered from this environmental incident. At the request of the competent ministry, air pollution control shall be carried out in Kostolc in order to determine a deviation from the permitted level of polluted air and to adopt an entire area recovery programme to protect human health and their environment. It should be said that if criteria are given in the recommendations for the construction of the settlement, then based on seven-year measurements of the soil matter, it can be said that Kostolac is a medium to largely polluted settlement, with high concentrations of sulfurdioxide and soot that occasionally cross maximum concentrations with frequent so-called common. acid rain. Acid rains are rainfall with pH below 5.6%. In 2000. The pH was 3.8% and dropped three to five months over the year. These rainfalls damage vegetation, alter soil properties, and so forth. This requires taking a number of concrete pollution measures to reduce the emissions of harmful substances, which is reflected in the terms of the coal combustion technology process itself, resulting in more secure combustion and continuous filter operation, the prevention of self-inflammatory coal processes at dumps, the central gasification of the Kostolac settlement and the revitalisation of the gap, the recovery and recirculation of the ashes. One thing that also bothers Branicevski County, and I believe it has certain specificities, is relations between Romania and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In the municipality of Golubac settlements Vinci and Branjevo for several decades they have been exposed to constant threats that during stronger winds, the people say, the eastern hive, these settlements are covered with ash, soot, because in the settlement "Old Moldova", which is across from Golubca, there is a mine of heavy water with the exploitation of heavy metals, and we are coming into a situation that in the summer period, which is the end known for the developed gardeners, that all that amount across the Danube, with the help of the wind, goes to our side. Back in 1970, there were attempts to place the island called Umka, which is what our residents call it, so that the waste material is no longer delayed, and it is in the middle of the Danube, but for years there has been no result. I don't think this is some international incident, Mr. Minister, but it would be good to make some international co-operation and in some way, as the ashes in Kostolc are constantly watering so that the wind can't lift it, to resolve it. My sincerest opinion, if the minister didn't take me wrong, that perhaps this problem would have a better outcome, if I could say so, if it were in parallel law, or in EU countries, if the Ministry of Ecology were a special ministry. We had this opportunity to have a special ministry, I think it would be much better then and we could solve these problems differently. I also didn't see it in the law, and I'm not even aware of which law it was defined, that when building permits are issued for environmental protection or for endangerment is not defined by this law. If certain buildings are built on green surfaces or other surfaces, they certainly affect environmental protection, i.e. the development of ecologicals in general. I don't know if you understand me, but the essence of the ministry means that the building needs to make that pandan and that something similar to what it's doing for shelters, to introduce compensation when building and issuing building permits, to pay certain fees that would just be spent to keep these degraded areas of protection from sources.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9779	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Zivkovic, and let MP Predrag Mijailovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9780	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, a set of laws on the protection of the environment, which is today in front of us, is of great importance not only to prevent the pollution of our environment, air, water, land, plant and animal life, but also to use the resources at our disposal. The key problem that we need not only to solve this set of laws is development and not any development. We need sustainable development, so development that will last a long time and that will outlive not only this but the next government, not only this one but the next assembly. At the same time, the problem of polluting our natural environment is being solved in a situation where the area in Serbia can, as far as I can tell, be seen as abandoned. Why do I say that? You don't have to be an expert to see it, because you can see it at first sight. The worst part is that we are very often at peace with that fact, which is, of course, very dangerous, because it endangers our health and is very limited by our development. What are the facts? Wild dumps everywhere, riverbeds turned into dumps, just a few arranged sanitary dumps in Serbia. The number of wastewater treatment plants can be counted on the fingers. The supply of healthy drinking water to the population is insufficient, there are not enough sewage systems. Industry is the biggest contaminant. How do we treat natural resources? Well, it's the least non-domestic, but fortunately not always. We exploit our natural resources, our natural resources, and we exploit them very often harshly. A good contribution to this is often made by inspection authorities because of poor control and hence does not surprise citizens who resent the uncontrollable exploitation, and it concerns almost all resources, what is most visible, sand, forest, clay and other wealth. Instead of exploiting, the concept of management of natural wealth must be nurtured. So, the problem of environmental protection we solve in very difficult conditions, but at the same time we must be aware that it is not just a matter of creating conditions for a healthy life. That's, first of all, a developmental question. The current state of our legislation can be estimated to define pollution control, which is the concept of developed countries in the 1970s and which, by the way, has long been overcome. In the 1980s, developed countries have defined by their legislation the concept of integration of pollution prevention and monitoring. The proposed set of laws is largely followed by this concept, which means that we are still lagging behind developed countries, unfortunately ten to 20 years. In the 1990s, this country has crossed the concept of planning the entire plant i.e. The introduction of environmentally clean technologies, and in 2000, they moved on to the concept of industrial ecology. Our approach to these modern concepts of developed countries in the environment requires us to foresee laws not only to protect but to manage natural resources. Three out of four required laws were prepared by the previous government in the form of regulations, because it estimated that they could be changed more easily. More specifically, it was the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. It's no accident that I'm referring to the full name of this ministry. Then, when we adopted the Ministry Act, we made an objection to the unification of two extremely important ministries that are of paramount importance to our further development. Thus, the Ministry of Science and Technology was united with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which was called the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment. We made an observation because we felt that a ministry that would unite natural resources and protect the environment would solve the problem of managing natural resources in a better way. The fourth law of the four proposed laws, which is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment, is also in the most part the content prepared by the previous government, but there are also certain amendments and I must say that the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, has very carefully analysed this law and addressed a number of remarks contained in over 50 amendments. Unfortunately, only five amendments have been accepted, and I must now say that our relationship with the proposed laws will depend on the attitude of the congregation's majority towards the amendments we have made. So, we also consider that this is why I am asking the honourable fellow Members of Parliament to support those key amendments, in order to support this otherwise extremely important set of laws, which I have already said at the outset. The Democratic Party believes that our citizens should live in a healthy environment, and that the country's natural resources must be spent in a domestic way, in a fair and fair manner, with the provision of sustainable development. That is why our amendments mainly refer to part of the law that determines the management of natural resources as one of the most important development issues. The proposed amendments aim to better regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, the integration of the environment into different sectors of energy, fisheries, agriculture and other sectors. This provides consent to a regulation known as Kom 98, which is known as the Cardifa document. One of the important issues of this law is economic instruments and I will try to keep your attention on one issue that concerns financing environmental protection. My personal view is that as regards Article 85, which defines the compensation for environmental pollution, and unfortunately, it should be avoided that the environment is polluting, but that is when pollution is being collected some means that should be used purposely to remove the consequences of this pollution and the solution proposed is that 40% of the funds go to local self-government, and 60% of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is not a good solution for principle reasons. Therefore, if pollution occurs and compensation is paid, the damage from pollution is the largest in the area where it occurs and therefore the means of protection should be directed to that locality and therefore I believe that the proposed percentages should be changed in favour of local self-government. Finally, the seriousness of the situation that we are in and the need for society as a whole, first of all the Government, but also local self-government, the National Assembly sees that these efforts are already being made, but citizens themselves contribute to solving these problems in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9781	The word has Minister Popovic and then MP Predrag Mijailovic - Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9782	First of all, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, before the end of the first day we spoke of these four laws to thank on behalf of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection for all MPs at a correct and constructive debate. I didn't want, since a lot of questions have been mentioned, to take a word after every speaker and to usurp your time, because this is primarily your home, so home to the MPs, not home to the ministers. A lot of things are mentioned, a lot of questions are open, a lot of problems, and not dealing with this set of laws with all these problems, nor should all these problems that are mentioned to solve, but the fact that so many problems are certainly speaking of necessity to do something as soon as possible. So I'm going to try to say something about some of the most important remarks that have been made so far, first of all, about those I don't think are quite standing, and also to point out some problems and agree with those in the debate today. I personally don't believe in any revolution. I believe that every new government has to look at what it's done before, continue what's right, change what's less good and bring in some newspaper. So, in the opening statement, I said that the environmental law was based on the law that was first found in the assembly procedure in 2002. I'm not going to get into it now, which is why this law wasn't passed then, when we know that the ruling coalition had a majority, not always the majority based on the Constitution and the real vote by the MPs who were in the Assembly Hall, and the fact that 80% of the law was accepted, I'm not going to go in whether it's more or less, in any case it's a kind of continuity, but let me say, some things are still fixed and changed, because this government believes that some things should be done differently. I don't personally believe this is the concept of the '80s law. Because if 80% of it has been taken over, as it is said, from the previous law and then it is said that the current law, the law of the 1980s, is going to be that there was nothing quite right with the previous one, and we are constantly in the discussion, or very often, we call on it. In the end, the principles of the SP Convention and the SEA Protocol and the PIR-TIAR Protocol and the Montreal SI Convention and the Basel Convention, the CITES Convention and the Convention on the Conservation of Biological Variety and the Archduke Convention are also incorporated, namely the latest documents, or those documents that serve for behaviour both in the European Union and in the rest of the world, which have already adopted those conventions or regulations. I am pleased to have mentioned the EUCOM 98 document, in fact from 1998, 333 finals, that is so-called. A cardio document, but I must tell you that there are over 400 regulations in the European Union in the field of environmental protection and that recommendations and resolutions, and this is this kind of document, is a strategic document, a document that is not directly implemented and not implemented in legislation. The documents directly implemented in the legislation are Directives, rules and decisions directly applicable within the European Union. The directive implementing the Cardiffian document is the SEA Directive on the strategic environmental impact assessment and it is incorporated into the proposal for a strategic environmental impact assessment law, so the implementation of cardio paper documents is absolutely embedded in one of these four laws. Is there or is there no sustainable development here, see Article 1 and 2, see Article 9 on principles, I'm talking about the Environmental Protection Act, see the strategy planned by Article 12. At the end of the line, Articles 35, 36 and 37 as well as the accompanying laws actually implements the environment in sectoral policies. There is one fundamental difference, and now, let me say, let there be a difference in opinion. That difference doesn't say anyone's right or wrong. The difference also does not say that anyone has a good or less good intention, so we believe that when they are issued, consent should be given by the ministry of environmental affairs in charge, and that approval should be given by the relevant ministries. That's the difference in concept. The 2002 concept was a concept that gave too much power to the ministry in charge of the environment area. It controlled absolutely everything. We think that responsibility in such a serious area should be shared, that this is a better solution. It was also a question of who guarantees the integration of the environment into sectoral laws. First, the way the law is implemented and passed, in order for the government to pass the law, the ministries have to determine the bill that will be sent to you, to the MPs, and the ministries have to agree, including this ministry. In the construction itself, in the case of changes in the environment, members 35, 36 and 37 of the law and these three additional laws actually regulate the situation. It is also said about the public of work, that the independence of the agency is in order to ensure the public of work, and we have here the implementation of the Archeological Convention, and on the other hand, in the extreme line, so you have passed a law that obliges the state administration to supply any information required, provided that that information does not fall under any kind of state secret. I have already mentioned Article 15 - without the consent of this ministry there is no use of natural resources, and we will have a strategy from Article 12 that will talk about it. When it comes to different areas, this law was not meant to be resolved, nor was it intended to solve legal problems in the environment, nor was the 2002 law supposed to amend all the laws. On the contrary, the laws that exist now, whether good or bad, about water, air, land, should continue to exist and will continue to exist until new ones are brought in. I hope there will soon be another wave of science ministry law and environmental protection where we will try to maintain some more sectors. It was noted that prior to the adoption of this law, information on the state of the environment for 2003 and 2004 had to be provided. My childhood has been a minister since 3 March 2004. I agree for 2003, but this was not the task of this minister and the ministry that I am leading, and what I can promise is that at the end of the year, the ministry will forward the report to the relevant assembly committees, a one-year report. As regards information on the state of the environment for 2004, this will be possible only in early 2005, as all results need to be collected by the end of the year. It's not possible to go out with that on December 31st. We believe that a member of 86 speaks something and regulates in a certain way the stimulation of contaminants to pollute less. There's one thing I have to say -- the Finnish government was mentioned, so the facts of the JULEX project were done by three regulations, and three laws have now been made under the same project. The previous law on the environmental protection system was not made within the framework of the JULEX project, only to make things completely clean. One question was why laws and not rules. First, because only the law can prescribe a strategic assessment of the impact of plans and programmes on the environment, environmental impact assessments, the issue of an integrated authorisation, because these procedures represent specific administrative procedures which differ from the general administrative procedure prescribed by the general administrative procedure. Secondly, the bill carried out a hierarchy of legal acts by the government and the minister, which had no previous solution. And, finally, only the law can treat public participation and cross-border influence. We're already talking about the international aspect here. You can't do that to the rules. There can always be a dilemma and it is a healthy dilemma - whether it is better to adopt rules on which the Assembly does not then declare, so Serbian citizens do not have the possibility to participate through their representatives, or to pass laws. The rules, of course, change more easily, and that is their advantage. However, not for political, but for those extremely legal-technical reasons, the government is in the view that laws need to be passed. It's about punishments, whether they're tall or low. The law on commercial offences and offences provides for penalties and these are the maximum penalties prescribed by that law. They mentioned Panchevo, Paracino, the Great Back Channel, Kostolac, and I'll only talk about what this ministry had direct authority over, which is Pancevo and Paracino. So this ministry paid for the Panchev analysis, based on which, after a month, it was actually established that air pollution in Pancheva, where weak points are necessary as soon as possible to patch up in agreement with NIS. That repair procedure at the places where certain leaks are occurring has begun. So after twenty years, the state has done something to really say and to see what the real problem is. There's another problem, and that's the Pancheva channel problem. However, cleaning up the Pančeva Canal creates a kind of waste that is classified as dangerous industrial waste. What's our problem is that we in the country, and about that more MPs directly and indirectly spoke, we don't have a single dump or a waste disposal facility at this point. This ministry has done everything in these eight months and at this point we are in talks with three or four municipalities that have accepted that these waste treatment plants are on the territory of these municipalities. I expect that during 2005, we will be able to address these problems. There are no magic sticks, no simple solutions, the situation is very abandoned, and it takes time to get rid of it. The transport of nuclear waste, the transport of genetically modified organisms, is covered by other laws. Sublegal acts for these laws are done, cannot be done before the laws themselves pass through parliament, or cannot apply before the laws pass through the National Assembly. More or less, that's what I wanted to tell you at the end of the first day. So I tried to answer some of the most serious remarks, to sort of show the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-03-0.u9783	First, one notice. I request members of the Justice Committee, a session of the Committee scheduled for Monday, December 6, 2004, starting at 9:00 p.m., is postponed for Tuesday, December 7, 2004, starting at 9:00 p.m., in a third-floor hall. Since I said that under Article 81, item 4 is defined and Monday as a working day, and I'm guessing MP Mijailovic doesn't have enough time today, then we're finishing work today and continuing Monday at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Natasa Micic, Miodrag Stamenkovic, Stanisa Stevanović, Milorad Belic, Gordana Komic. In the morning: Vojislav Mihailovic and Dragan Rafaelovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LIFE CREDIT (resuming in principle with 6, 7 and 8) The word has a People's MP, Predrag Mijailović - Lune.
