ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7234	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all a good day, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Jaksic, Esad Djudjevic, Milorad Belic, Radic Jokovic and Goran Knezevic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANY CONTRAGRANGEMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY WELCOME OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE FUNDING PROJECT OF THE ENERGATE SECTOR IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (joint principled earthquake with 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 points) We continue to work on a joint principled review of the proposals of the law on the granting of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro's counter-Governances to loans to the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in Serbia, the Emergency Project of Health, EPS - Project II, The Project of Reconstruction of Belgrade, the Energy System and the City Water Project of Serbia, which the Government of Serbia has submitted. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Goran Paunovic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. One notification: pursuant to Article 38(3) and (4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform you that MP Jovan Todorovic will represent the SPS parliamentary group and MP Goran Knezevic DS. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a joint search. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7235	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a united debate on proposals to give counterguarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to the European Investment Bank for various development projects in the Republic of Serbia. It is, in fact, loans already ratified in the assembly of the state union, and as you know, since the state union does not have fiscal capacity, then it is necessary to issue counter-guarantee to Serbia for that part of the loan used in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while the Montenegrin Parliament gives counter-guarantee to part of the loan used in the territory of the Republic of Montenegro. This is about six loans from these two international financial institutions, which are intended to: Serbia's Elektroprivred, therefore, to our energy sector; two are intended to develop municipal infrastructure in our cities, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and one is intended to improve basic health functions in different cities, which I will explain to you in detail. First, I explained the reason why the congregation today declares itself. Namely, these loans were signed, some of them back in 2002, such as the European Investment Bank's loan for the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project. The congregation of the state community later ratified it. The last credit signed is a water supply loan in Novi Sad and Nis. He was signed on 11 June this year. So these are loans signed in different periods, from August 2002 to mid-2004. The state community also ratified them in different periods, but the Serbian Parliament did not declare itself, gave no counter-guarantee, so none of these loans began to be used, regardless of the contracts were signed. The condition for the use of credit is the vote of counterguarantee by this National Assembly. I'd like to tell you now a few words about the total picture, so you can make your decision easier. In fact, both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs voting in favour of the proposal should bear in mind the overall responsibility of the country, so that they can make a measurement decision. I was also talking about it when we were discussing budget rebalancing. I might repeat some numbers, but I'll add some. As for our total public debt, it consists of internal public debt and external public debt. The foreign debt represents a direct commitment by the Republic of Serbia to foreign creditors, but also guarantees issued by the Republic of Serbia for various public enterprises and guarantees that it will serve its obligations neatly. On 31 August this year, the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to $11.8 billion. At the end of last year, the total public debt amounted to two billion more and was $13.8 billion. The structure of public debt is such that 40% of the total public debt is internal debt, 60% is external debt. So $4.9 billion is an internal debt, out of which $4.5 billion is an obligation based on old foreign savings, while 60% is external debt. As for the guarantees that have been issued so far, only $345 million guarantee has been issued so far. So, in the total foreign debt, which is $6.5 billion, only around $345m of guarantees have been issued, which means that the government's obligations based on public enterprises' responsibilities are not high so far. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the National Assembly to vote these counterguarantees as well. In total for these six loans, it is about 306m euros in guarantees. However, I must say that these guarantees are only activated in case these public undertakings, or local self-government, are unable to pay off their liabilities. In other words, we assume, it has been a case so far, that both EPS and local self-government will properly pay off their obligations, so these guarantees will never be activated. However, the loanor's request is for them to be issued. I'd like to say, because of the polemics of our debt that lasted long in public, what was the public debt at the end of 2000. I'm going to use the euro as a currency, since it's easier to compare, because the dollar has had a lot of fluctuations over the years. The total public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 14.2 billion euros on 31 December 2000. Today the total public debt is 9.8 billion euros. So the total public debt has been reduced by around 4.4 billion euros in these four years. Compared to the social gross product, the total public debt was 170% of the social gross product on 31 December 2000, and today it is 56% of the social gross product. So, in the meantime, we had a rate of growth of social product: 5% - 2001; 4% - 2002; about 2% - 2003, to have about 8% of the growth of social gross product this year. This means that even in the absolute amount of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has decreased by 4.4 billion euros and has fallen even more significantly in relative terms, as the social product has grown in the meantime, so that the relative amount of public debt has decreased about three times compared to 2000. This means that Serbia is not a high-indebted country at the moment, given this parameter. According to mastic criteria, which are a condition for entering the European Monetary Union, public debt participation in the social gross product can be a maximum of 60% of the social gross product. I must say immediately that some members of the European Union do not meet this criterion, such as Belgium, which has recently had over 100% participation in public debt in the social gross product, as well as in some other countries. After all, they have entered the European Union. As you know, they have become members, even before some of the criteria have been established for new countries joining the European Union. What is very important, if our economy achieves a growth rate of about 4 to 5% a year, we will have no problem serving this public debt, especially given that it is smaller. If anyone's wondering why and how it's possible that public debt is smaller, it's the result, first of all, of the big write-off we got from the Paris Club of Trustees and this year from the London Club of Trustees. The amount has been reduced in Serbia's citizens' debt, as public debt is paid by paying into the budget through taxes, and then the obligation to trustees is served. Now I'd like to say something about projects that will be financed from these international loans. We have three projects for the EPS. First of all, this is the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project, a 59m-euro loan designed to build Belgrade 20 substation, build the Jagodina 4 substation, expand the Sombor 3 substation, expand the Sremska Mitrovica substation, refurbishment of Valjevo-Zvornik, refurbishment of Belgrade-Kostolac and reconstruction of Belgrade substations and Novi Sad. So, from this loan approved by the European Investment Bank, if this assembly adopts these counter-guarantees, hopefully, it will, to improve our energy system in this part. The second loan we are discussing today is a 60m-euro loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, also intended for the EPS. It is aimed at modernising the hoofs of lignite, modernising energy management and controlling management and providing communication systems for the establishment of links with the European Union countries in the transfer of electricity. The third project is a 22m-euro European Investment Bank project aimed at improving the technical management system for mobile calibration, remote cells, as well as converters in power plants and telecommunications networks. So all three EPS projects are "hard" somewhere around 141m euros. As far as the remaining three projects are concerned, it is first of all a 90m-euro loan from the European Investment Bank. The loan is intended for the city of Belgrade to rebuild the infrastructure in Belgrade, primarily for the restoration of tram tracks, for the restoration of the asphalt cover of parallel streets, for the restoration of important streets (Slavija, Žička, South Boulevard, Batutova, Partizan road), as well as for the traffic management system and reconstruction of tram vehicles. It is a loan signed on 17 June 2003, which was ratified by the National Community Assembly at the beginning of this year. It cannot be used before it is ratified by the Serbian Parliament. The next 25m-euro loan is for Novi Sad and Nis, to improve water supply in these cities. As far as Novi Sad is concerned, this loan will be designed to improve the technological process of water treatment within existing capacities, to treat water "Stran", to build appropriate tanks, build a new pump, replace the pump and insert new drains, purchase new plumbers, purchase materials for the reconstruction of the network. As far as the town of Nisa is concerned, the credit is intended for the purchase of equipment and treatment of sewers, the completion of the main water ring, for additional capacities in the "Vinnik" tank, for measuring devices, for the reconstruction of waste water collectors and reconstruction of the secondary network. Of the 25m euros, 15m euros is intended for Novi Sad and 10m euros for Nis. Finally, one very important loan from the European Investment Bank is a 50m-euro loan for an emergency health care project to improve the situation in our clinical centres. Therefore, the credit intended for the restoration of basic functions and basic clinical services refers to the following cities: Subotica, Kikinda, Pančevo, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Smederevo, Muprija, Zaječar, Užice, Čačak, Kruševac, Pirot and Leskovac. The loan is also intended to restore district hospitals in Paracina, Jagodina, Novi Pazar, Gynaecological-acusher clinic "The People's Front" in Belgrade, KBC Zemun, KBC Zveztar and the Torlak Institute. So, as you can see, it's about loans from international financial institutions that have a very precise purpose. In the end, I have to say the conditions under which these loans are granted. All loans from the European Investment Bank, and on this list are five, are granted on a 20-year maturity. So it's long-term loans. The annual interest rate is EURIBOR plus 0.4 percentage points. At this point, this reference interest on the European capital market is 2.2% a year, and if we add these 0.4%, the current interest rate is 2.6% a year. For these five loans, the interest rate is 2.6% a year, and the payment deadline is 20 years. The start of payment for Serbia's Elektroprivreda is at the end of 2006. These are also credits with a suitable grace period, or a period of time. As for the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, they are 15 years old. We have one such loan for the EPS here. The interest rate is at EURIBOR level plus one percent, which is now 3.2% a year. So I can now conclude: according to the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the overall level of public debt allows the Government to issue such counter-guarantees and therefore we have suggested that this assembly ratifys these loans, because they will contribute to the improvement in our electricity system, but also to improving the health system, improving the provision of municipal services in many cities of Serbia. You can see that these projects cover a very wide circle of our cities. Payout deadlines are good. Also favourable are interest rates, and as far as total guarantees issued at around $345m are concerned, they give us the opportunity to issue additional counter-guarantees for these proposed 306m euros. In the end, I would also mention that within a relatively short time period, the Serbian Parliament will be delivered for consideration and public debt law, which will, for the future time, give restrictions on borrowing, both states and public enterprises, and local self-government; this will be far easier for you as MPs so that you can plead when you receive such proposals. This law is over and now we're doing a technical order. Soon we will hand it over to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then to the Assembly. Given that without the ratification of these loans by the Serbian Parliament, their use is not possible, and that it is very important projects for the Republic of Serbia, I expect all MPs of the Serbian Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7236	Thank you. Before we continue, I will read a note to you that the president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group and the deputy president, MPs Goran Paunovic and Ksenija Milivojevic, have resigned to those posts. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7237	According to the agenda, we in this united debate have practically six points of the agenda, and according to the documents we received from the government, we received five draft laws. I may have made a mistake, but it's probably the secretary who's going to discuss it, and that's why I just came up here and asked them what it was about. Until that is resolved, I am obliged to make general remarks on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party concerning such a procedure before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At first, I must say that, according to reason, the constitutional basis for these draft laws is in the provisions of the Constitution, Article 72, point 1. One and four. If you look at what the Constitution says, then you can see that such a law, as a special law that gives practical counterguarantee, does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it is said in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly is obliged to regulate the system in the area of economic relations with abroad, it is then laws, large and general acts, which in principle regulate all points and all issues of the system, and we are offered something that can be an individual decision, only at the top it is written that it is the law. I want to point out that the concept of the Constitutional Charter, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, does not know this possibility. However, since it has already become a practice for the Republic of Serbia, in the National Assembly, to give counter-guarantees; it was done last and last year for some other loans taken by both the SRJ and the state union, and because of those two colosses, where practically republics - states, as legal persons with full content, because the state community is only pro-forming an international law entity in a personal sense, but in that fundamentally, realistically, it is not, because there is hardly any property, there is no means to guarantee the fulfilment of its obligations, primarily of its obligations, so it resorts to this operation that we practically have a four-way agreement on a single loan. Someone from the federal level initiates the negotiation process, the interested ones get involved, an agreement is made, it is ratified in the Federal Assembly; because it means nothing, then it needs counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, because it has property, it can be the bearer of rights and obligations, because the state community is the bearer of some rights only in personal terms. This practically comes down to raising the flag on the mast outside the UN Organization. And if we go over this gap, because for the past two or three years it hasn't been a shortage, because here, in principle, the new reality is a form of psychosis -- the reach you can get from abroad -- is it paying those who did it this way on October 5th and helping to stabilize their government, or is real help for the needs of citizens -- that might not be so important right now. It is important that this new reality is based on the fact that even for the elemental accumulation that this society is unable to separate as an inevitability new borrowing occurs. If these are added together, no matter how many years it is necessary to return that amount, which is the interest rate and what level of government is in debt, essentially and realistically, that is about 250m euros. For someone it's small, for someone it's a large amount. Probably for those whose funds are meant to represent an amount that means organising a job in health, in electricity, in water, in cities, but over all of this is one question – can the economy and the public finances of this country endure it? A team before we remind ourselves that in 2001 it was massively represented to be ratified almost every session of the Federal Assembly by two or three agreements, starting with the one where Switzerland was guaranteed our access to international financial institutions, or guaranteed payment of something that we would reprogramme, so it was a ticket for all future duties. So, with this practice, it goes on. The biggest lack of the Budget Law and the Budget Rebalancing Act, which we discussed here a few days ago, is that we essentially didn't see a consolidated public spending balance in those strong papers. He's not there. He's not here because he's twisted, not only in an explanation, but also in those famous members three, five and six, where one of the most common words game comes in. As a game of words, you should understand the deficit. From the point of view of the Budgetary System Act, the deficit expressed, as far as direct users are concerned, is essentially nothing, because the budget can only spend what it has. What he doesn't have can't be spent. But the deficit when it turns out, it appears as a space allowing the Government to provide funds on another market, whether by broadcasting securities of value or by entering into some credit arrangements (naturally again with selected banks) and special arrangements regarding the interest rate that is also being settled by returning those loans. I am absolutely certain, given that this government is continuing the economic policy of the previous government, as there has been no personal change in that regard. Remember, in 2001, a new economic policy began with Labus and Dinkic; she was interrupted for two or three months in 2003, when the Staff Combinator had failed to deliver some results, and one was no longer a member of the Agency for Rehabilitation and one of the governors of the NBS. After a few months they returned to power, continued with the same economic policy, but now with other positions. Now they're criticizing the previous government. They criticise the government in which they were, as Serbia now criticises the DS, applaud New Serbia's MPs, and last year they passed all those laws and participated in everything the DSS has criticised. That's what the public needs to know, to be familiar with, because this is one of the most ordinary media games that needs to ensure the conditions for financial lobbys to do their job unhindered in this country, regardless of who's going to be in power. One of the means that guarantees such a thing is laws like this. When the legislator comes out, he says -- who doesn't vote for this law, it's not for the Clinical Center, it's not for setting up streets in Belgrade, for city waterways in Nis and Novi Sad, for electricity. There are two or three contracts in the electrical sector. One is for managing the systems, let the equipment to calculate the current and the calculation from one point of consumption, etc. That's what we have here. The characteristic of all the loans that have entered this country since 2001 is that at least 35% of the funds have remained abroad or have been returned to other channels. These are the consulting services, these experts, Pitic and the company, Begovic, all who offer services, Vlahovic with his firm, who also offers services; there are little money washers and return to the sponsor. The way it's done, I'll show you on one case. Whoever doesn't believe, go to Makish. Sweden sent out a loan, I think it's 2m euros, to resuscitate something that's urgent. Imagine, it's not an emergency track, not some transformers, but a roof, according to the new Swedish technology. GG firm from here, it's that 35 percent, got the roof with the best materials, and what's worth, it's sneezing worse than the old one. A similar situation is with the reconstruction of this railroad heading towards Mladenov. The opening ceremony, it's going to be 120 kilometers. Now they're thinking about how to cut to 50-60s, so they don't drop trains. If you need to sort out examples of how money from credits is used, help, in which arrangements, which to the state, which to the private, then everyone in the audience needs to understand one thing - that whoever is against this law is not against the pipeline in Belgrade, against the pipeline in Nis, but is against the way the funds are provided, against how these funds will be spent, against the fact that someone will put those funds in their pocket, and everyone will have to return, through tax policy or otherwise, regardless of who returns, we are talking about guarantee and counter-guarantee. When the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee, it guarantees the return of these funds to the Republic. The resources of the Republic in the budget are, above all, the funds provided as public revenues through taxes, customs and other taxes. These public revenues are paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why would the citizens of the Republic of Serbia be through the budget, or the budget of the transmission, to pay the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to someone 35 per cent that he put in his pocket? We just had a local election. If nothing else, at least it's correct to stop with this agenda point, to get the new local authorities to plead on these loans. This does not mean that if two years ago, the National Assembly of Nisa decided to approach such borrowing, it would also be in the new assembly to accept that obligation. It is elemental to ask the new local self-government whether they estimate that there are funds in their public finances in some near future to service these loans and loans. What I said cannot be affected by the suggestion that says – let's take that money, there are all kinds of procedures, there are needs. There are needs, but there are facts. The facts say – regardless of your statistics on growth in industrial production, some good economic flows, the economic climate is bad, privatisation – you saw it for as long as it came. Public finances will have a growing problem every day and there will be small aid effects coming from abroad, whether through the National Bank, whether through other transmissions, where the funds are pumped, and evidence of these are major state foreign exchange reserves. They're sticking to the big national reserve so the system doesn't crack. By the logic of things, if foreign exchanges came, that's how long it takes to print dinars. That's why the dinar withdraws, to preserve the system, so it doesn't collapse, so inflation doesn't appear, but not inflation because of the printing of new pairs, but for completely different reasons. In such conditions, a new assignment. So that it doesn't happen again after a few months -- we democratically leave power, and what we leave behind, we don't know. You came, so think about what you found. That's why we have to warn and say we don't agree with this uncontrollable government debt. The state should be in charge of those reliable, strong projects, of which citizens and businesses benefit and where the possibility of misuse of these funds is prevented. Experience for these three or four years shows that abuse is not prevented. The state does not have mechanisms to prevent abuse. Why? Because the cause of abuse is in the structures of the state government. No foreign relations affair -- the Republic of Serbia has been resolved. A sugar affair for a year and a half can't be solved. Why? Because everyone involved, those who were in power until a few months ago and those who are now in power. That's the cohabitation. What part of cohabitation is under consideration? Until apparently something happens, they set up conditions for some new elections, and then they're going to cross over again. As you can see, all these mutual spits have meant nothing for months. As soon as the boss says - unite, come radicals, they say - we are for democracy. It's like there's a democratic thief and a common thief. Thief is a thief. The difference between a big thief and a little thief is just how much money was in the register. They're basically the same, their intentions are the same. So this is the second phase of DOS economic policy, which is now being implemented by policy makers from the position of government. At least as far as the Republic of Serbia was concerned, while the previous government was not implemented by the creators, but at a lower rank by some clerk, Pitic, Djelic, and not to order further. They now appeared first in the chain, which are in direct contact with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other associations. These associations were best spoken by Mr. Labus, and this was all well quoted in that motion to vote for mistrust to the Vice President of the Federal Government on page 182 where he confessed exactly what he did. So economic policy is not being run here, it's not going towards our capabilities and our interests, it's going towards a dictatorship on the side. Some times these duties go to preserve the system, and sometimes because there really is a need, but then there's those 35%, the laundry, and someone puts us here in front of the situation -- if you're not already against it, then you're against the citizens. That's the only reason I came out to say that the SRS is not against citizens, against water lines, street construction, is not against opening up new coal-exploitation spears, it's not against what these loans and these loans are meant to be, but it's against these phenomena. Our public finances will not be able to withstand this level of borrowing. You'll see in a few months, these large foreign exchange reserves and this artificial course-keeping will appear as a boomerang. This occurs long ago, and as a result, it is a daily real decline in the standard of living of citizens. But since it's been going on for a long time, you've lost your sense of the line. I know why you lost your sense of the line, because when you came to power, you came in assuming, just to remind you, that there were two billion marks among the people in the straws, so when it started to replace the brand, the dinar, the euro, then the governor boasted at that time that there were eight billion and that there was a bad estimate, there was money in the citizens. If that logic was the evidence that was present here on the agenda was the change of the excise law, the only argument was -- the people were driving cars, so people have money for fuel. For some other taxes and excises the only reason and as a criterion used is that - there, it's got, it's driving, it's being used, it's being used. Maybe in Belgrade, but go to the Great Plan, Smederjevski Palanka, go to Prokuplje, Leskovac, Vranje and other places. Go down to the street and convince them what you're saying. When you tell them about these loans, that this will improve that and that, you tell them who's coming back right now. In every respect, all these loans, whether or not the counter-guarantee has been activated, are being returned to the citizens. Why? These are all public enterprises and are charging their services. Who? Citizens. What means can they get back from? From the funds they collect. If they're in charge, they'll have to come back again. If the task is short-term, in order to bridge some commitment, the user pays the service again, all of it is paid by the citizens. Will the citizens be able to service these loans? After all, we have new local self-governments and have them check to see if they are still in the positions of the Democratic Party two years ago. If they are in those positions -- okay, secure most of them and vote. If the new local self-governments don't want these projects to be realised, to close the financial structure like this, then pull this, a team before these agreements were signed long ago, ratified long ago in the Federal Assembly, two months ago. I want you to question the will. Maybe the will of the local authorities isn't like this anymore. Maybe the will of the board of directors of Elektroprivreda isn't like this. I give citizens very reliable information. So many times she jumped the price of electricity and only on the orders of the International Investment Fund. Time exists, an hour and a half for the Serbian Radical Party and if you are unable to remember this then read the stenograms, and if you are bored you have another way to have fun. Time's running tirelessly, time proves everything, shows everything. Time can't stop, although someone would like it to happen, but it can't, it's going, and the time that's coming is just telling us and it's going to tell us that these words that I'm saying here are big and cruel truths. So the will of local self-government must be checked. Serbian citizens have had several occasions to hear their electricity prices increase only on the orders of the International Investment Fund. It was not a request and an interest in Elektroprivreda, at least while it was a public enterprise in some positions where it had to take care of citizens' interests. The International Investment Fund said very simply and simply that the price of electricity in several stages must coincide with that level of electricity price. It was a warrant from abroad, such as an order to coordinate pensions, such as an order to increase the price of medicines, as was the order to banish some in Serbia from the previous government. These are all orders from abroad. It's not the original thinking of the previous and this government. It's a task they have to fulfill. Within that task, there is this. For the employers, these are crumbs, but these are tasked with presenting it as something epochal, like they found something, the world wants them, divides them with a hat and a handful of money. Where do they end up with that money? Who's gonna pay for that? Will the economy, will this country be able to serve this? More serious economists warn the government and the National Bank of Serbia to threaten us with a serious debt crisis, not to use the other word. That is what the government must take care of, unless it has really decided to contribute to those who claim this will probably be the worst government in Serbia's history, and many say that, in all characteristics, it will be just such a government. Take care. We'll be against this bill of law and this kind of spending these funds, but we're not against the plumbing, against the Elektroprivreda, city traffic, we're not against what the citizens are interested in. It's not the citizens' interest, it's the interest of the financial lobby that formed this government that is required to work on a warrant from abroad, and it's only a second phase now. I'll tell you about the third.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7238	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7239	Dear MPs, a previous discussion of co-operation with international financial institutions calls orders from abroad. I know that while the government of the previous debate worked, in the 1990s, there was no co-operation with any international financial institution. When you look at the guarantee item at the end of 2000, it's zero. It is true that the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia for such projects in the 1990s was zero, there was no co-operation with international financial institutions, whatever they call it, whether they were warrants or not. The then government, whose work was in fact and the party of the previous debate, had no relations with international financial institutions. At that time, however, the total public debt was 14.2 billion euros, and today, again, it is 9.8. So, with co-operation with international financial institutions, we cut that total public debt by 4.4 billion euros. The second thing, in the 1990s, has not been co-operated with international financial institutions, has not been co-operated at all with abroad. The ground was closed. But then not only was there not a loan for EPS and a plumbing, then there was no electricity, there was no gas, then you couldn't buy drugs because they weren't in the pharmacy, but you had to go to the black market. Then you couldn't buy basic life supplies because it was hyperinflation. At that time, simply, some did not want to receive orders from abroad, which is the name for the normal co-operation of a modern small country with international financial institutions and sacrificed all Serbian citizens to declare the principle. You say that the National Bank of Serbia has large foreign reserves; it is true, the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves are now $3.7 billion, and after 5 October they were 360 million. So they're 10 times bigger today, after four years. You say why these foreign reserves aren't being spent, why they're being guarded. It's not because of the fear of future times, the reserves are called reserves because they're being guarded. In the 1990s, the huge foreign exchange reserves inherited after that government of the former SFRY were then over 10 billion, spent, not guarded. What my predecessor suggested was just done, therefore, to spend the reserves, not to be kept. What happened? We've had hyperinflation and people haven't been paid a single dollar in ten years, not a single euro, not a single brand of old foreign currency savings. A 4.5 billion-euro debt was made for the old foreign currency savings. It is true that this government has continued to pay off the old foreign savings, which has already begun to be done by the previous government, and we have now significantly reduced the debt in euros. This year alone, 440,000 savings were paid, $280m from Serbia's budget was given to pay off old foreign exchange savings, which was created as a problem because foreign reserves, instead of saving, were spent in the 1990s. If that hadn't been done, we wouldn't have to now, or our citizens, because you are absolutely right, not paying the government of the Republic of Serbia an old foreign currency savings, they pay citizens through their taxes. But Serbian citizens would not repay, through the government of the Republic of Serbia, the obligation on the basis of old foreign exchange savings that a different monetary and economic policy was being conducted in the 1990s. Foreign reserves must continue to increase and foreign reserves should never be spent the way you think they should. When you ask for access to foreign exchanges, why they don't broadcast in the same amount of dinars, you just show that you don't have enough knowledge from the monetary economy, because, precisely because of the preservation of macroeconomic stability, one part of these dinars' emissions must be sterilized. It's a notion used in the monetary economy not to affect price increases. When you mention the vice president of the current government and the vice president of the former government of Mr. Labus, you say he has done damage to this country. Mr Labus has just concluded the first agreement with the Paris Club, when we received 2.2 billion dollars in debt write-offs, and he has now participated in the negotiations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when the London Club wrote us a billion and 700 million. So for $3.9 billion, that gentleman owed our citizens, not the government, but the citizens. You forgot that this government only during this year, except for the write-offs we made with the London Club of Trustees, made an additional write-off to the Russian Federation. The NIS has just eased its commitments for $248 million. A portion of the debt the previous government made during Milosevic towards China was also written off, $256m was the debt, and is now reprogrammed to 198m. So one good part of the debt is written off. Finally, you say, the previous speaker says you're not against restoring the water line, modernizing the streets in our cities, saying you're not against it, but you're not up for this. You don't say what you are, you don't say how you think 330m euros are found, do you want to raise taxes, so that citizens pay for the refurbishment of the pipeline in Novi Sad and Nis. Tell me from which sources, let's admit the truth. Serbia has poored in the 1990s. She was poored just because of the isolation she was exposed to. I must say, as former governor of the National Bank, then Yugoslavia, on 20 December 2000, I am proud to have been the one who restored relations with the IMF, because we haven't had those relations in the past ten years. And then without these relationships, we had neither the possibility of borrowing nor the possibility of restoring the power system, and all these years all these loans that went to the EPS actually led to citizens having electricity. We haven't had electricity in the 1990s, let alone talk about other things. So, I suggest to all those who criticise borrowing, which is not large, given that the current level of public debt is 56% of the social gross product, four years ago it was three times higher... So we control and take care of borrowing. All those who are against helping through the credit lines to all these cities that I've listed say from which sources to do so. They may think that citizens of Tzupre should not have normal drinking water or think that citizens of Novi Sad and Nis should also not have quality water. If they think there are other sources, let them tell us, we'd rather avoid borrowing, if possible without an increase in taxes, without imposing on citizens to find funds. If you say, then, that we have to give up these projects, that's one policy. If you say we want projects, but we don't want to be in debt, we don't want to raise taxes, then I'm just asking you to say from what sources you think it's funded. Of course, there are no such sources and that loans for 20 years with interest between 2 and 3% a year are a solution in all normal countries, especially given that our level of public debt has been significantly reduced over the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7240	National MP Zoran Krasic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7241	President, I think I have the right to a replica, because it is unequivocal that the government's representative had in mind my speech when he came out and commented here. Now I'd concentrate on what doesn't stand. So, my predecessor brought out something that doesn't actually stand, it doesn't exist. It says - 14.2 billion euros was the task of some of the previous governments. In doing so, I get the impression that my predecessor wasn't reading his document. We had almost one session of the Committee on Finance or the Legislative Committee when representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented data and said - from 1990 to 2000 there was no new debt, no credit arrangements with the IMF, with the World Bank, etc. It has been unequivocally found that the 14.2 billion-euro debt refers to the period before 1990. It's a simple fact, it exists in the Ministry of Finance, it's their data. Today's debt is 9.8 billion euros. I'm not sure our gross social product is more than 11 billion. If it's put into some relationship now, it's not 56%, it's a little bit more. As for gross social product and method of calculation, I have to say that there has been a slight change in methodology over the past two years compared to 1990. There's been a change in methodology, and I'm not getting into those details. As for foreign reserves and old foreign savings, I would recommend that my predecessor go to Zemun, Square Three, to buy a book called "What Takes a Left and Doesn't Know a Right". The book was written in 1994. It is a stenogram of all the meetings of the Survey Committee which examined abuses in terms of what the kobajagi is called old foreign exchange savings. Everything has been determined: and the causes, and the consequences, and who is responsible and who needs to do what. Unfortunately, thanks to some of the people who were at the time representing some of the parties in power, the report never saw the light of day and was never adopted in the Federal Assembly. If you had read that book, it would have been much clearer to you what the position of the SRS is. You're talking about sterilizing foreign exchanges. I did not plead that anything that comes from abroad should get its dinar equivalent and be put on the market in Serbia. You've got it all wrong. I was just criticizing the high level of foreign reserves in conditions when everything else is falling apart and falling apart. I didn't say, keep your foreign reserve here or there. Maybe you could do some other measures or, as you say, operations on the financial market to regulate the amount of money and see what can affect the development of our economy, but you understand one thing. Our exporters are not stimulated, you haven't yet opened the topic, only uncontrolled imports, and you haven't closed the subject of the responsibility of the creators and those who are conducting this economic policy this four years. The consequences will be very, very bad. If you think you're responding, you're replicating, then concentrate on your duty. Don't leave the Coolin Ban, because as soon as you start from Coolin Ban, there's something wrong with your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7242	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7243	Dear Members of the People, I would like to begin with what Ambassador Krasic last said. Why does the minister return and explain other things in concrete items of the agenda, rather than the draft laws, which should not be laws, on the issue of counter-guarantees for tasks signed or for contracts concluded in October last year? The question arises why this counter-guarantee business didn't end sooner. The point here, as it is said, is that these are not counter-guarantees, these are actually super-guarantees or real guarantees and for the duties carried out under these points from 2nd to 7th only the state of Serbia, i.e. the citizens of Serbia, can guarantee and pay for their assets, unless the users of these loans fulfil their obligations. But I called to ask the next question. The minister said here that the state of Serbia is approaching the maximum of its debt under the International Monetary Fund criteria, and in its re-unification, he said he had not been co-operated with the IMF for ten years; so he could not co-operate with the IMF, as the country was under sanctions, under blockade. Mr. Minister, you are constantly calling for your expertise in the area of finance, but don't much, because of ordinary citizens who don't understand, to say that everything the Monetary Fund has done in the world has worked in the interests of the state and the people. I was dealing with this problem because I was a South Bank worker in the King for twenty-four years and I know what the Monetary Fund brought to Argentina, Indonesia and many countries in the world that blindly followed the program and dictatorships. You can tell what kind of situation they're in right now. I agree that there is a need for co-operation with all international organisations, especially international financial organisations, but not for such co-operation to just fulfil orders. What are the objectives of these warrants, that's another question. So don't keep returning that story to co-operation and everything that comes from the IMF is good. It is a matter of those in a particular country to negotiate in the interests of the people and the state and to reach that agreement and to implement it. Why did Slovenia not accept the IMF model, and many countries in the environment? Why didn't they go to the liquidation of all their banks, why did you, Mr Dinkic, and Labus liquidate the four largest banks in Serbia? Why don't you file a report on these banks' business for the past four years? What's their business, what do they do? Who are they lending to? Where are the funds, where these funds go, do the lending of businesses, infrastructure, municipalities, the state has the share of these business banks that you have formed here in Serbia? Of these many banks, with the most modern technique, with experts, what did the people get in return; what did the citizens of the Kings get from the four business units that were, which credited the economy of the Kings, the entire municipalities and the regions? What do 34 branches in the King credit now? Do you have that information? What do they do? You have 34 business units of banks in the King, minors more than there are sawdusters in the King. In the King's office, we now have banks, casinos and cafes in the city center. And these are three areas operating in the center of the city of the Kings. What's our state of affairs? Now I'm bringing you back to point two to seven. Have you in government, both former and present, asked what is in local self-government and municipalities, which are priority issues where the state should sort out a programme in some way and that these priority problems are solved. Is the biggest problem with these seven agenda points? Are there any major, priority problems in some municipality in Serbia? I have to remind you, if you don't know, the King doesn't have a bridge on Ibra. Suffocation is from 7 to 8 a.m. and from 15 to 16 o'clock. There's no bypass, no water supply solved, and the government hasn't considered it anywhere, nor will they consider it. Now you're saying we're approaching the line of duty. In these four municipalities that you mention here, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, and I don't know which others, the Democrats ruled at the time. It was probably proposed on that basis and these loans were concluded and now they need to be implemented. And who will repay these loans or loans? They will return the citizens of these municipalities and will return, if they do not return them, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They will still have no second bridge on Ibra, will not have a bypass and will not have a water supply resolved, and you in the Serbian government have not been interested in it before, and even now, what are the problems of the Kings and many other municipalities in Serbia. You're talking about the third roundabout ring around Belgrade. The king has no second bridge on Ibra, and these citizens of the Kings, the entire municipality, are not just talking about the city of the King, because neither is Belgrade Serbia, nor is the King's municipality, but the 11th municipality in Serbia is by the number of inhabitants, without these exiled from Kosovo, which came in 1999. It is Serbia's largest territorial municipality. That doesn't interest you in government at all. Now comes the story, in order to preserve that air-conditioned democratic bloc that was formed after the local elections in November last year, that Velja Ilic was coming, that he went to Ibar and with New Serbia's council members watched and the TV quoted Vela as saying there was going to be a bypass and said where it would go. 20 years ago, a bridge began to be made and pillars of it stood. It's a policy run by the Serbian government. As part of what MP Krasic said – easy borrowing and without the right determination of priorities, if it is about borrowing at the level of municipalities, we think it makes no sense. Why in some municipality would citizens get everything, even on a burden, if the next day is necessary, Serbia's budget, for payment, guarantees, counter-guarantee or super-guarantee, and that in other municipalities they do not have the basic conditions to move, live and work normally? Life and work problems in the city of Kralje and many municipalities of Serbia should be spoken publicly here. The previous days talked about budget rebalancing, how much money someone has earned and which the government has earned more than privatisation. What's the profit of privatization? Is it profit to sell an inherited apartment, a house, or sell an inherited field or a meadow? Is it a profit to sell the property someone else acquired? Profit is what is created as an excess of value in Serbia's production. We don't have production and you don't care about production. You have produced as much as anyone has sold and how much has reportedly entered the budget. The minister is not interested in privatisation, and he has been having a major problem with the low-charged budget since privatisation for the past ten months. Has the minister ever come to the Privatisation Committee to hear that privatisation in Serbia has been conducted so far? You should come, Minister. I'm not a member of the Committee, but because of the robbery of some companies in the King, which will come to the Committee's agenda, and it has come several times, let them come, and you should come. The board concluded that ministers should come and hear what crime it was. The minister of police and the minister of justice should come. However, they do not respond to the call. All information on that committee has been closed. Here it is trying shyly to see what is happening in privatisation in Serbia. It's a crime. Of the 1,200 companies, I can tell you by free judgment, 600 companies have been kidnapped, robbed, the workers have been humiliated. Sadly, many are unable to organize and oppose. What he managed to organize and stand up to, is publicly released. Now, there's dust in the eyes of Serbia's public, Serbian citizens, with the "C Market", the "Knjiza Milos" and everything else doesn't matter. Small businesses and the fate of workers in these small businesses are also very important. Not only are those who need to take 20,000 or 30,000 euros from the "C Market" or "Knjiza Milos". For me, it's much more important for those who don't have a dime in their pocket to buy bread for children.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7244	The word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Antic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the opposition of the SRS to the proposed counterguarantee law is a principled nature. You know, we haven't had any control over the spending of funds in local communities before, in public enterprises. We don't even have legislation, with which I think the government should have come out immediately after the formation, which would have controlled the spending of funds in these companies, as well as the cost of all these counter-guarantees, i.e. an analysis of the completed transactions in this regard. This is where Mr. Secretary spoke of the Turkey, of the caucus water. This may be the best example of how bad funds invested in local self-government are spent. Turkey received a water tank two years ago, thanks to the US donation, but the tank simply broke after a few months and today the citizens have no problem with water supply. They certainly need this issue to be resolved. It's a basic civilization need. The problem is not whether they need it or not, the problem is that funding from donations and loans is being spent and the problem is that there is no legal regulation to monitor local self-government, which would control the budgets of local self-government. There's a lot of illogicality and open thieving. I am aware, and I hope you are aware, that local self-government often lacks the power or the ability to calculate themselves with all those illegalities and irrationalities in spending these public funds. A lot of credit has been used at this time, it seems to me too much, for personal consumption, rather than for the rebirth of our economy. It's another principled SRS issue. I would completely disagree with the minister, with that pink picture of him when it comes to the state of our economy. I think the situation is much worse. You yourself said that the reduction in public debt, the reduction in our debt, above all, is the product of a write-off by international financial institutions. The external trade deficit this year is about six billion, which means that by two billion more than the previous one, and the previous one seems to me, by a billion and a half, if not two, compared to that one year. The external trade deficit is increasing year after year. If you have two billion this year, you can expect in the next two-and-a-half to three billion dollars, which means that our debt in the coming years, at least because there's no write-off, will rise rapidly and be bigger and bigger. The reason why we don't need to be easy to borrow is because of our gross social product, which is small and doesn't allow us to allocate more funds for investment, for production. Mr. Jelasic, governor of the NBS, spoke of us being on the verge of a debt crisis. It seems to us that when we decide on borrowing, we need to make a lot more account for some of the long-term consequences of all this. All in all, the SRS will not be able to vote in favour of the counter-guarantee laws until it is cleared up by how the funds already received are spent and, as long as no clear strategy is seen in future regarding the means to be taken, whether these funds go into personal consumption, public spending or go into the development of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7246	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7247	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can see that Mr. Minister is running away, which is already the manner of last session, but well, I'm still saying this for our public, because of you here in the O.R., and I won't find it hard to say in his absence what I'm up to. You see, as I come from the health profession, I am a doctor by profession, I will deal most with the fourth point - the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance an emergency health project, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot help but begin my presentation by not turning my attention, again to all of us, and to our public, in one inappropriate way that the resolution minister places documents on us, from which he should convince us that it is justified for us to be in charge of the European Investment Bank for these funds, which are intended for different things. As the draft budget rebalancing has been very badly done in both formal and essential terms, we are also facing the same problem today. We got a little piece of paper that says it's nice, the headlines are big, and when a man reads the titles, he just doesn't know what it is. I will now read to you the title of the reasons for this fourth point that we are discussing: "An explanation for the adoption of the Law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank for an urgent health project, by emergency procedure". After that, there are four lines, and that's an explanation. This is no argument. This isn't even a rough attempt to explain anything. This is a disgrace and this is the humiliation of the Parliament, of the government and of our MPs. Mr. Secretary tried to explain something, and then he talked, quite uninformed, about how the loan, which I'm talking about now, was meant for clinical centres. He doesn't know Mr. Minister that credit isn't meant for clinical centres at all. And one other project, and spending money, which goes, is intended for clinical centres. These are hospitals in the interior that want to be helped. Now, here first we have a termological farce that bothers me. We're here to discuss an emergency project and an emergency procedure. And look (shows material) on 30 December 2003, a project was signed between the European Investment Bank and Serbia-Montenegro, what kind of emergency it is now when we are talking today that we need to provide guarantees so that we can withdraw these funds. Then what's a regular procedure here? Maybe a decade, maybe a hundred years. As the government does, and some of its ministers, it's probably the years that are set for normal procedure with us. Furthermore, what is very interesting, since there are no arguments, and what Dinkic said about hospitals, God forbid, it has nothing to do with reality and some explanation, and it goes nicely to the health ministry site, where there is a title of "Cretit of the European Investment Bank for Emergency Reconstruction of Health Institutes in Serbia". And, of course, there are no arguments either, but only for purposes - for which this money is intended to be spent and some items are counted; for example, construction works, infrastructure, improving general conditions for patient stay, without specification; or how much money to any of the 20 hospital centres in Serbia, or why. And what's blackest is, there's no explanation why it's necessary, so to say, the health care funds provide so much, and we're missing so much, and then we're taking this kind of credit to make you and those shortages better; then it'd be an explanation, then it'd be "drink water," and then we could welcome it, and eventually, adopt some kind of counter-guarantee. But if you read this more carefully, then you come up with something very interesting. He says - technical support will be provided by the consulting house Karl Bro, hired for the Health Ministry's capacity improvement project; technical support for hospitals to build, or to work construction works. Here's what these works are - big repairs and replacement parts of existing construction buildings (tops, doors, windows). There's no Serbian sense here that he can do a project of technical refurbishment without listing what's said here. It's all simple, routine stuff and needs. There's nothing subtle in here, which is being introduced into the health system, by the equipment, that we need Carl Bro to teach us what to do. Now, if a man goes to Karl Bro's site a little bit, see what Carl Bro says when he's doing projects in Serbia, and, look, he says we're doing three projects in 22.6 meters. Probably millions. Well, then he says dkk, it's probably Danish crowns. When you recalculate it, it's three million euros. And look what it says in the explanation -- it's three very important projects for food control, health and environment control. And what's the point? You see, it's a very short explanation (shows material). Serbia's goal is to join the World Trade Organisation and promote EU trade with Serbia for all three projects. It's the essence of this business project and it's the role of Carl Bro Agency in getting this loan. We know this, which is evil, that strangers who help us with donations and loans are starting to take about 35 percent. What kind of help is that? Why don't we give it up, get in charge, let the foreigners tell us where to put the windows and doors at the hospital. Is that a fair and rational waste of money? That's what we resent to Mr. Secretary and these loans. We don't want that kind of consultation. We're not going to launder money that way and we're not going to establish a line between the foreign and our thieves. We in our media can't read about an affair that now has its way with Western Europe and Germany, which says "Stern". The European community has been damaged by 50m euros, i.e. the funds for the reconstruction of the thermopower plant A, and is chasing that thief who took those 50m euros in his pocket. A hundred people were investigated by the German police. That's why we're against it. This smells like it. We have experience with projects that are being done in our country, when it comes to transfusions, and we are wondering where the money, the European Community and European taxpayers' funds have been spent so far and what the result is. Who was able to benefit materially from that? Let it be said exactly how far it went to the consulting groups, so let it be said whether these consulting groups even had our senior government officials as consultants, who were users of these funds. Now, this is happening today in Serbia and we will no longer participate in the obvious robbery offered through these projects. Finally, to mention this various populist interpretations of Mr. Minister about how terrible it was before; it was, it was terrible, it was poor Serbia, but these today's thieves are cheating, and it's immoral, poor to rob. When you steal the rich, it's not right, ethically it's wrong. But when you put a poor man's hand in your pocket, that's immoral, and that's why we're against this kind of policy and this sophisticated theft through credits. Mr. Secretary boasts that they keep paying back their foreign savings. Well, then, they're returning that loan to rebuild Serbia. Why don't they return the dinar amount to the people who gave the loan to build Serbia? It doesn't exist. So, who was a thief then, who smuggled foreign exchanges, traded exchanges, you know how we replaced the streets, so he could pay in foreign exchanges, we'll pay him back. The one who was honest and didn't want to trade in foreign exchanges, so he gave it to the dinars, he can't pay it back. I'm asking a question, Minister - will it damage those people? It's easy to determine – as an inflation eater. At the moment of that loan and loan, let's see the exchange rate and the dinars and let those people get paid back. What's said - we got from the Paris Club... What did we get? We're in sanctions and in a war followed by a half-breed, and if we got our fair war damage, we wouldn't need any credit, and that's not what Mr. Minister and most of us here stand for. It's our cruel reality. We're not for this kind of credit, we're not for this kind of farce, we're not for this sophisticated kind of robbery of a state directed by our foreign mechanics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7248	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and let Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have come into a situation to finally reveal to the citizens of Serbia what the SRS has been pointing to over the past four years, to point out the danger that leads us directly to total debt, into debt slavery. The fact is that these counterguarantee laws have been verified at the level of the state union, i.e. the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, and the fact is that, regardless of the opposition of the SRS MPs, I hope another MP from this assembly, these laws will be passed in the voting day. The minister said our debt was $14.2 billion, that now it's 9.2 billion. He didn't say, though, but that's what Mr. Krasic said, that's the debt since 1990. So, in these ten years that you keep pushing, besides the SRS, you know that in those ten years, only two years of participation in the government... He didn't say the minister that this is 14 to 9 billion interest on funds that have been properly charged for all these ten years and that our huge funds in foreign banks have been frozen and that no interest has been charged on them. For ten years, the country has been under sanctions, ten years our funds abroad have been used, and we haven't benefited from it. He didn't tell us the minister, when he mentioned that $14.2 billion debt, how much was the debt in 1990 without these interests being charged over the past ten years. He didn't tell us that what he wrote off was the Paris Club and what the London Club would write off, if it wasn't already written off, only part of the interest they charged us and we couldn't pay because we were under sanctions. MPs who have long followed the political scene in Serbia remember that credit tranches went to the International Bank and returned because they could not be paid. The minister said - we regulated relations with Russia. He didn't tell us how regular relationships are, though. We remember very well that Russia was in debt to the Serbian economy, i.e. the economy of Yugoslavia 2.8 billion, at the time of the clearing dollars and that these clearing dollars, like Russia's debt, stood still and Russia recognised them. Some time ago, when the minister and his boss went to Russia and beat the crap out of you -- we owe you for gas, and you owe us for the products of "Lole" from the Railways, the flag from Kragujevac, the MIN from Nis, and let's beat that up. That's how debts are regulated, so the kid in the first grade can regulate the debt – I owe you this, you owe me this and nobody owes anyone anything. I wonder why the minister and his boss didn't do it before, but they were waiting to finish it two or three months ago. He knows that foreign debt and foreign debt counterguarantees bring commission to those who regulate the business. I mean, it's not gonna say that in this, but we know that. What the late Branko Ćopić says – we know them. He didn't say that foreign debt can only be regulated by counterguarantee, for the simple reason that public firms who will be in charge of this based on those who need to lend credit don't believe, precisely because of that part of Brank's statement. The Minister knows that the internal debt is easily resolved, stockings on the head, rifles in the hands, at the National Bank, there's money, and the internal debt is regulated. Why are the companies that are supposed to use these loans brought into this situation? It's been brought back four years since 6 October 2000. The minister said -- we didn't have electricity. At the time of the largest bombing of two hours there was no electricity; thanks to the installers and workers, the sacrifice of the EPS workers, in two hours after the bombing with graphite bombs, electricity came to the settlements. They don't believe you, and they're asking for the counterguarantees of the state because in the chairs of these public enterprises your people are sitting down, and knowing you and them, knowing how sloppy you are on the commission know that they are even more audacious, because they need much more. You've been in a situation that you might have been able to pet yourself a little by now. How is it that before public enterprises didn't have to seek the counterguarantee of the state, they just got a guarantee of banks for huge development projects? I remember building a pipeline from Batajnica to Paracino, a project that cost enormously much, I was in the company, that pipeline was being built, and I know that only "Yugobank" and the National Bank gave guarantees, and we automatically withdrew all the tranches of credit as it arrived. Why can't it do so today for a simple piece of water, the MPs, above all the opposition, but also the ruling majority, should think about it before they raise their hand for these projects. We've heard from Mr. Pai Momchilov's esteemed MP who Carl Broh is. So, the man who's gonna take a health care commission. Who's Carl Bro for the plumbing? Who is Carl Bro for you to rebuild Belgrade, rebuild and develop the EPS, and restore and manage the electricity system? We know who Carl Bro is. It's Hamovic and Lazarevic. You can no longer plant a single piece of coal until Hamovic and Lazarevic approve it. How much of this is Carl Bro and these other carlbros going to show up in this? How much of it is directly obtained by Minister Dinkic, or if it isn't him, let him say who will receive the counter-provision from the commission, given that they are looking for counter-guarantee on the guarantee. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the MPs of the SRS will certainly not vote for this task, because we will not see Serbia, if it depends on our votes, in a situation where Argentina and the rest of the Latin American countries were recently in place. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, put your finger on the head, so if you have a little conscience, vote for these laws and put Serbia in a position that we will have to pay these loans to the territories.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7250	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7251	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have already heard, the Serbian Radical Party will not vote in the Assembly to provide guarantees from the Republika Srpska Assembly based on various loans, as requested by the Serbian Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party believes that if we already have to borrow the state we should borrow it for the purpose of increasing productivity, production, opening new plants, opening new jobs, rather than directing loans and loans to public consumption. If we respect this principle of the Serbian Radical Party, new jobs and new plants will create a new value and a new tax liability, i.e. sales tax, value added tax, call whatever you want, and fill the budget, both the Republic of Serbia and the ministries and authorities of local self-government. However, it is surprising here that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is asked to give some counter-guarantee, and none of these five or six documents that we received say on what deadline this loan is, how big is the grace period of that loan, if any, and how much interest are there. I don't see what conditions we need to give counter-guarantee in order to owe the state about 320m euros. Mr. Minister was supposed to stay here, at least while this debate was being held, to answer our question, since it doesn't say that in these documents. I think it's his job, not that he's politically claiming here that unless we approve these loans, or loans, we need to raise taxes to get this money. Only the Elektroprivreda, three basics -- for the reconstruction of the energy sector 59m euros, for the management of the electricity system, 22m euros and for the reconstruction and development of the electricity system again, should receive about 150m euros in one way or another. It's said, if we don't approve of these funds, we're going to have to raise our taxes. If we approve these funds, we'll have to increase the electricity price. One doesn't go without the other, and the question is, unless we approve these funds, is whether taxes should be increased. I argue that it should not, because the power industry has lost about 400m euros in the past four years because of the suspicious business of the EFT, three times more than the electricity industry should now be in debt. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia formed the Survey Committee for the Study of All This and when Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic were coerced, by the work of that committee, into a corner, by members of this Survey Committee who did not conclude from the ruling coalition that there was abuse, they had left it to some auditory house, which someone would pay (read freely: pay), do it and that the audit house would make a report that corresponds to Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. By approving this loan, we allow these gentlemen and some of the money that will be from this loan to be put back in their pockets. It seems to me that this country is slowly but surely, because of coalitions like these and these governments that have no courage to face crime and corruption, it slowly enters the rule of the people of the shadows. Currently, there are rulers in the Republic of Serbia, shadow rulers Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic. All new agreements that are being renegotiated on imports of energy exclusively go through that house of the EFT. No matter how much they got into it, the damage that occurred when we imported the electricity and when it wasn't necessary, when there was a dam spilling where there were batteries and power potentials. If you think you can make up for it from these loans, and the SRS is going to vote for it, you're wrong. When it comes to a 25m-euro water pipeline project for certain cities and municipalities, this proposal shows who promoters -- those who hoped to retain power in certain cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, they managed to retain power in Belgrade, not in Novi Sad and other cities in the Republic of Serbia, but the fact is that these funds should not be granted either, as the question of how many salaries were asked, based on various grounds, of these gentlemen in municipal administrations. When someone wants to cause instability or dissatisfaction in the people, the easiest thing to do is to take and write what they pay to the MPs, and the salaries of the MPs are a children's game in relation to what the chairman of the executive board had, say, the Assembly of Nis Municipality. The parliamentary salary was ten times lower than his, and now we need to approve loans for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the water line, gentlemen who have purposelessly and arrogantly spent the funds of Serbian citizens. When it comes to the Emergency Health Project, 50m euros, my colleague Paja Momcilov explained nicely what this is about, I am only interested in what kind of money that will be spent, whether this will be the item of "specialised services" again, amounting to billions of dinars, and whether non-intentional money will again be spent by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The same situation for the reconstruction of Belgrade's city. What can you do to restore it from? From who? Do they belong to their own authorities, those who have entered Belgrade again? Yesterday I spoke with the president of the municipality of Kučevo. He won in front of the SRS and denied in one part of Mr. Vukic. It was not only the leadership of the Democratic Party, which was in power in Kučev, that all possible jobs, fax machines, telephones were built on. They even built on toothpicks. In order to continue that enrollment, we need to grant a 90 million dinar loan. To make things worse for Belgrade and for Elektroprivreda, gentlemen, you have never once asked what to do with the damage caused during NATO's aggression against the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The power industry suffered the greatest possible destruction, physically destroyed power plants. The damages are much bigger than the loans we're taking right now, but thanks to these loans, you seem to be trying to justify those who took part in it, and they're trying to justify themselves. As I see it, you have a desire to give up the war damage, but you can't do it because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but that's why everything that didn't work out in that aggression you want to achieve in other ways with these loans and loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7252	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7253	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will vote for all the counter-guarantee laws, as has been said many times here so far. The DS supports all proposals from the government of the Republic of Serbia and all political steps that contribute to Serbia's modernisation. Maybe the term modernization doesn't come across a good reception or understanding, but it doesn't change anything essentially. Indeed, modernisation means, in its important part, a significant improvement in the material infrastructure and all these laws and all these loans needed by the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia are a good way to improve the state of the material infrastructure in Serbia. I want to say something that the finance minister has already said here. It should only be remembered that in the winter of 2000 and 2001 there was no electricity in Serbia for nearly two months. This is the state of things that in this country in the middle of Europe in the 21st century was the current state. Unfortunately, it is not possible to find better sources of funding, because the capacity of public revenues in Serbia is not large enough to improve all of this, and improve the electricity system, and create conditions for the rapid construction of a water supply system in large cities, in a better way. Serbia's biggest national problem today is a million unemployed people. It is not possible to create conditions for a sufficient level of investment unless there is material infrastructure. Serbia today lacks 10% of electricity, Serbia needs one thermal power plant or some different power source to meet current consumption without imports. Unfortunately, we don't have a million and a half dollars as a state to invest that money. Serbia is also necessary to improve the system of electricity transmission, the distribution network, the control of the electricity system, and there is no better and cheaper source for these purposes than the credit offered to us. Also, I would like to ask those citizens in Novi Sad and Nis who today do not have a connection to the city's water line whether they are for this counter-guarantee law, whether they are to revise contracts that allow loans to be returned under the most favourable circumstances, because Serbia during the government of Zoran Djindjic and during the government of Zoran Zivkovic managed to act on such a country's status to obtain conditions of half or one percent of the annual interest, to obtain these loans. It would be good for critics of this law to ask these citizens of Novi Sad and Nis who do not have a connection to water and sewerage, whether they believe this assembly should vote against the counter-guarantee law. This time I express my deep regret that this law has not been passed so far. I am very pleased that the government, in which the DSS has a decisive role, has decided to put such a law on the agenda, because it shows that the investment policy led by the government of Zoran Djindjic and the government of Zoran Zivkovic was essentially correct. In the end, I want to say something about the position the finance minister expressed on the country's responsibility. The truth is, of course, a contract was concluded with the London Club, as a contract with Paris Club's creditors had previously been concluded. I want to remind the public and the MPs of the statements of the relevant factors, when this debt write-off contract was made to the London Club. It was done at the time that Boris Tadic became Serbia's president, because Serbia has shown that she is capable of voting for Europe, because Serbia has shown that it is most pro-European and pro-democratic. These are laws that bring Serbia closer to Europe and therefore the DS votes for counter-guarantee laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-21-0.u7254	Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of his right to speak? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on proposals for legislation on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro for loans from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in Serbia, the Emergency Health Project, EPS - Project II, the Belgrade Reconstruction Project, the Energy System Management Project and the City Water Project - Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a search in detail. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia (specificities) you have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic want to give the final statement? He's not here. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Emergency Health Project (Speciality) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Emergency Health Project has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic want to give the final statement? He's not here. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II) (separities) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic want to give the final statement? He's not here. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project (single) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project, I am opening a search of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final statement? The proposaler's representative is not here. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project (Secondity) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final statement? The proposaler's representative is not here. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia (separities) you have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia, I am opening a search of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the bill before I conclude the search in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final statement? The proposaler's representative is not here. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. After we're done with the eighth point, we interrupt today's work and schedule a session for Tuesday, October 26, 2004 at 10.00 hours.
