ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6012	Dear MPs, at the end of yesterday's debate, the president of the assembly issued a warning to participants. As I believe that this also applies to my brief replica of Mrs. Komic, whom I wanted to relax the atmosphere, I would like to apologize immediately at the beginning of today's debate if I accidentally offended any speaker. At the same time, with the deepest appreciation of every participant in the debate, I expect that such misunderstandings will be no more during the discussion of the energy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6013	I thank you for this contribution. The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6014	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the submissions of the Energy Act justify many solutions by introducing a commercial principle, protecting electricity consumers from the monopolies of those who produce, transfer and determine the price of electricity, so that citizens will have a guaranteed orderly supply. The main newspaper is the introduction of an energy agency, then the establishment of an operator, the establishment of an electricity trader. A lot of newspapers, new terms and terms. In the light of the draft law, the Proposer says that all national legislations have come from the real state of development of energy performance in their countries and that all countries have implemented the harmonisation of the rules set out in the European Union, respecting the basic guidelines of European Union rules which ensure the harmonisation of legal legislation in this area. Things with this portfolio and the solutions in the Energy Law proposal are quite different, one is on the draft energy law, and the other is in practice. So it is quite certain, as some European Union officials say, if the Serbian government insists on breaking Serbia's Elektroprivreda and privatising the best parts, that we will experience the fate of Bulgaria and Romania. In these countries, there has been a drastic increase in electricity prices, foreign companies only make profits, and in return they invest nothing, the workers are fired and the mines are closed. Governments there must even subsidise the high price of electricity, said George Samaras, the permanent secretary of an international union organisation with 25 million members from the energy sector, the non-metal industry, chemistry and mining, in connection with the draft energy law now on the agenda and reforms in the energy system, or Serbia's sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we have seen, and a representative of the proposings in this assembly, Minister of Mining and Energy Mr. Radomir Naumov insists on such a policy in energy that has proved to be bad not only in the European Union, but also in the United States, especially after the last havilia that has hit the northern part of the United States and Canada. The Special Directive of 16 July revises the European Union's policies and attitudes on this matter. The European Union no longer mentions the breaking of single companies in the Member States and privatising their parts, but only talks about creating conditions for the free electricity market. With its earlier policies and earlier views, the European Union has tried to deregulation the electricity market, limit monopolies, introduce more producers with the aim of establishing free competition and thus lower electricity prices. Due to the bad consequences of such directives, many EU members have taken measures to protect their single businesses by preventing their dispersal and sale. For example, France, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands set out to separate single companies, but soon changed course and even began to finance the centralisation of these companies. There is an expert study, made in the EU, which says that just recently EU members have invested about $100 billion to decentralise their businesses. The EU's 2002 report shows that instead of breaking up the monopoly and creating a free market in the energy sector, there has been an increase in capacity and even greater monopolies. EU countries have concluded after all these events in their electricity systems that it is best to support one enterprise within the area, whether it is a state or private enterprise. This is the case with Germany or France, they have their own unique company, and on the other hand, in other countries they are free to perform and buy parts of the electricity industry. It is interesting that the English government has made a billion-pound grant to the national company British Electric to consolidate the single company, so that it does not go bankrupt. After all this data, we can freely say that Serbia was fortunate to be late for the reconstruction of its electricity industry, because now we have the opportunity not to make mistakes made by the governments of Romania and Bulgaria, where they now have a high price of electricity, a complete electricity system in other people's hands and several tens of thousands of people who have lost their jobs. If this bill is passed, it expects us in Serbia, as many as 22,000 workers will be out of work. The implementation of this law will be disastrous for Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SRS believe that coal as a primary energy in electricity production should be provided for in the draft of this law. About 32,000 miners from Resavica, Chitluk, Aleksina mines, who perform investment works in other mines in Serbia, Avramica, Lubnica and other mines, their trade union organisations, as well as associations, gave their suggestions and justification requirements based on the following, Mr Minister - that coal is the primary energy in the Republic of Serbia and in the production of electricity in 2003 is involved with 70%. Of the 36,096 gigawatt hours produced, TE production was 25,392 gigawatt hours, or 29.7% from hydropower plants, and 70.3% from TE. According to energy reserves available, coal content is over 85%, while others have significantly lower potential: crude oil, natural gas 1.5%, oil spikes 4.8%, hydropotential 5.8%, nuclear raw materials 2.7%. Coal surface underground mines in Serbia focus their largest production on electricity production, while small quantities point to other consumers, indicating enough the link between coal producers and the thermal energy sector. Coal as a domestic energy resource should be given a status of interest in the activity of the electricity industry, as it ensures the development of this business branch, and thus the employment of its own workforce. In addition, the production of coal also affects the development of other industries, such as machinery, electricity industry, chemical industry, etc., which deals with the production of equipment and roads for mines, and the state has an interest in developing mining. According to energy forecasts, coal will also take a leading position in electricity production over the next 50 years in the world, especially taking into account the increasing development of coal combustion technology in the fluidised layer, which is an environmentally acceptable solution. The transition process will also affect the increase of unemployment in Serbia in the coming period, and coal production can certainly increase production capacity and employment. The fact is that mines, both surface and underground, are express representatives of mining, but it's so-called. Energy mining is thus treated in most countries in the world. It is unnatural to separate energy and energy mining in their functioning, because they together make up one rounded continent. The argument reached by the authors of the bill, like Minister Radomir Naumov himself, that oil production, as well as gas production, is not a strong argument, since it is mainly import energy with very low, almost negligible participation in electricity production. The energy law included areas of small hydropower generation and alternative sources of solar energy and wind energy, whose participation is now very low, and in the next 30 years there will be no special shift. In this way, the law would also become productive, not just commercial, as the solutions set out in the Energy Law proposal foresee. This law could have a name - a bill on energy trade. Western European countries have slightly reduced the production of coal, at the expense of coke, while coal production has not been reduced; the United States, Russia and China have increased coal production, all according to the information of Mr. Mirko Ivkovic's mining company, a major coal mine conservation fighter in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia in the last few years there have been many irregularities, suspicious situations, crime and illogicalities that we in the SRS have pointed to for years through the work of the polling committee. I'll name a few. Why is electricity, Mr. Minister, exported via the EFT at a lower price than that paid by consumers in Serbia? Why does a tender only take place in the purchase of electricity and not in the sale of electricity? When it comes to one of the basic concepts in the proposal for this law, transit, or transport of energy originating in another country, which is intended for a third country, which is carried out through the territory of the Republic of Serbia, why in one period, transit is being manipulated in a fictitious manner for Albania's account by Mr Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic of the EFT. The former EPS leadership at the time of Ljubomir Geric sold electricity to the EFT 2.4 cents per kilowatt, and imported 4.0 cents per kilowatt from them, with the EPS only in one job having damages of 1.2m euros. Why is there electricity in February when there's enough? Recently in Serbia, in addition to so much state crime and damage done to the state of several hundredm euros, a citizen is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for failure to pay for electricity. It is about Slavisa Ilic from Nis, who received a prison sentence of several months for unpaid 21.936 dinars, and he may have listened a while ago to the people of the Democratic Party who had instructed the citizens of Nis to throw their electricity bills into the container. Or, the strike board of the Elektro-distribution Belgrade calls on its management not to exclude electricity from its citizens, precisely because of the godfather's and political lobby that pulls so-called. Great consumers. Or, Jovan Mandic, a graduate engineer, argues that the energy lobby deliberately shut down electricity in Belgrade, Sapac, Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia, only to make it easier for citizens to accept electricity collection, both by order or suggestion of an energy lobby. Milan Rakic, a shareholder of AD "Nafta", says that Serbia's oil is held by the Kumovese Liaison Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, Goran Novakovic and Zeljko Petrovic, the current director-general of NIS, of course in contact with the authorities. A DS speaker who spoke about this topic last night justifiably criticised the existence of an energy lobby and the involvement of the regime's people. Does he know why one of the members of the energy lobby met party president Boris Tadic about June 1st at Daka Street, in Belgrade, with Vuk Hamovic? It includes the secrecy of the 11 July dinner at the Grafik restaurant in Dedinj, where police minister Dragan Jocic, head of BIA Rade Bulatovic, Serbian Prime Minister Dejan Mihajlov and Vojin Lazarevic, were one of the members of the energy-kumovish lobby or, more specifically, the mafia. Why in 2003 was the import of electricity exceeded 65.5% of the planned? Maybe also because of the energy lobby and the state money they took. In May 2003, how could Mladjan Dinkic approve, as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, $20m for the electricity "Euroaxis" bank in Moscow, without the money being used for these purposes, but for something else, according to his agreement with Vuk Hamovic? Why did the former Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government and Minister of Economic Relations order fictitious exports – imports of 30,000 tonnes to the EFT, and later 130,000 tonnes of mules through the Enterprise company, thus damaging the state for unpaid taxes, as well as the unpaid service to the EPS, amounting to $17.179,976 US dollars? And if Prime Minister Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic are to celebrate the DSS as special guests, the issue of all issues, such as, according to him, is not The Hague, but why does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Vojislav Kostunica protect the financial and telecommunications mafia? Finally, Mr. Minister, the solution to our case is to root out the energy mafia and make the current power system more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6015	The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, and after that, MP Branislav Stevanovic. Once again, I ask all MPs not to advertise from the pay phone companies or restaurants or business products.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on energy, which our minister said was a bomb. That's where I absolutely agree with him, because this is a bomb in our energy system and that's all I agree with. I should mention, since I'm a member of the Committee on Industry, and no one has ever said that this law on the Committee on Industry has not passed, but that it is in the process again, which means that the Committee agrees with my opinion. I would just like to point out that I am an SRS MP from Vrsac, a city in Serbia has been given gas among the first, which has been used by gas for more than 40 years. Since I'm working on gas distribution, I'm familiar with specific problems, holes and illogicalities in the law, and I'll point to the most of it. First, I must address you in general, to you and to the citizens of Serbia at all. The reason for the law is said: "The reason is certainly also the definition of reforming the energy sector creating preconditions for the more efficient work of all energy operators, as well as for the appropriate institutional changes to improve their business, especially from the point of view of economic effects and training for the market conditions of business." This is quite true as a reason, but I'm in the opposite position, that this law will not contribute, which I'll explain later. It is also said: "In addition to these undoubtedly most important reasons for the adoption of this law, it is also important to point out the need to bring our legislation into line in the field of energy with EU regulations relating to the energy sector, which is also implemented by this law. "This is well said and sounds nice, but the basis of all European laws is to abolish the monopoly, and this law is, in addition to all other faults, and monopoly, which I will prove to you later, in what part, which is why we will, I suppose, have problems by the EU. This, I repeat, is about gas, because we don't have enough gas in our production, but we're importing it. The part that speaks of the principles on which the law is based, among other things, is said to have gone from the following principles (I will quote only seven, eight and nine): "7) the organisational unification of the issues of the issue of energy performance licenses, the adoption of tariff systems, the approval of prices and other transactions - by the establishment of a special legal entity to carry out these tasks; 8) the uniform management of systems through system operators, and I would stress this: "9) the provision of adequate state control and influence in the process of determining locations and other conditions... "so I wouldn't read them all now. It's all nice again, let's say, wrapped up, but after that, we come back to contradiction. The agency is being established, which is an essential objection by the SRS to this law and the other laws that the government has proposed so far. The agencies, by nature, are in all ministries alienated centres of power, which is evident in the explanation of what the energy agency is doing. I'll read a few items for the public. It is said: "This law establishes a special legal entity – an energy agency, as a regulatory body for the performance of the tasks referred to in Article 15". It is also said: "According to its powers, the agency is specific, since, according to this law, it will carry out certain tasks which are by their nature within the rights and duties of the state authorities, such as the issue of a licence for the performance of energy activities, the approval of prices, decision-making by appeal and so on." Then: "In the framework of its powers, the agencies, according to this law, adopt tariff systems, both for the access and use of the transmission, transport and distribution systems, and for the calculation of energy supplied to tariff customers." I'll also quote the part that says, "The agency should be an independent regulatory body, independent in making decisions from all energy entities and users of their services." So this shows that the agency doesn't have anyone's control. I forgot to quote another part, which says: "This law sets out the powers of the Agency (Article 15), the way the agency is managed, the way in which the decisions and other acts are financed, and the acts on which the Agency is authorised", where everything is listed except for control. It is also said in one member of the law that the president of the council and four members are elected from the ranks of prominent experts, but nowhere is precise, and such things should be specified, from which the profession, etc., because this is how it turns out that we should believe in the word that someone is honest, that an expert, etc. I'd do that little dyspression. Mr. Minister, Serbia has already burned on experts in the past term and sent them, let me say, into history. That's why you personally don't have the credibility to trust you, because you're this so-called. G17's "expert group" has once again drawn to the surface, so they have taken all the leverage in finance, in the Privatisation Agency; and, behold, the director of NIS is a member of G17, and, again, he is the godfather of Vuk Hamovic or Vojin Lazarevic, no longer a man can wash it, for which even my children know it's those who steal electricity and money, and they are protected by the one who eats goldfish. It's a situation everyone in Serbia knows. Saved the best men to expand their business and move past the currents now to gas and oil. Why am I telling you this? Because you're a coalition, you're the exponent of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, all together, who in the past elections became the exposition of the Democratic Party, and now you're waiting for charity. Now, politically, I will be quite mild, manipulators and hohstapplers and profiteers of the transition, depicted in the G17 political group, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica, decide on breaking up Serbia's economic goods. I'll give you a few examples of NIS's criminal activity, which is happening in the community, since I'm familiar with it, as well as in the surrounding municipalities, the Mountainyard and the Alibunara. The case is about the same all over Vojvodina. First, what's going on in the last period? Small distributions are taken away, based on debt, from local communities, which are not owners, because it is citizens' property. There's no record of anyone else owning it. In contracts that are concluded, the concept is, I wouldn't know legally to say exactly, which means that owners can't complain about it. The lawyers we consulted say these citizens can take down a contract and we know that some citizens' associations are already preparing a lawsuit. The question is, what are we gonna do when that happens, who's gonna pay for the damage and who's gonna be guilty? Probably no one, like so far. Another irregularity that happens, as citizens tell us in the tour of municipalities and terrain, is that they are trying to force citizens to create projects and installations, although these projects have already been in existing local communities. It must have been projects before, because I know from personal experience that it's an obligation before the beginning of the work. We can't harass citizens now because NIS has 200 or 300 more engineers and wants to hire them. I brought in a contribution to see what the conditions in Banatski Karlovac are like, forcing us to reconnect to the NIS network. I'd ask this gentleman there, who doesn't know what to say, to go outside and replicate if there's anything. The third example is related to the natural gas of domestic production, which, according to some knowledge, is extracted from the wells, meaning, without record. There are immeasurable amounts of gas, which cover the losses in the distributions, which they take over, which means that these small costs of net loss are compensated in such a way as to directly damage the state or, Serbianly speaking, steal. Evidence that gas is sold at the same price at some point as import gas, such as the purchase price of imported gas, so another question arises - why are we buying, by the way, the most expensive gas in Europe, and it is possible to buy gas, we have knowledge of it and can prove it, by 30% cheaper. I'll make that more specific through the amendments later. As far as the amendments are concerned, I must say that, with one fraud, you managed not to hand over all the amendments we had foreseen in time, so we are now a little more extensive in principle, because because of the procedure that was related to the law we did not hand over all the amendments. Now I'm going to tell you what illogicalities there are in the law, and in which members. We think the status of a qualified buyer must have distributors. That's the first remark we've got. It should therefore be specified for members of the council, since the possibility for distributors to have the status of a qualified buyer would affect more favourable energy prices for the final consumer. What I mentioned about the monopoly in one part of the law refers to the fact that one energy subject cannot be given the possibility to perform all energy activities, e.g. transport, storage and distribution of natural gas, as this would be the legal provision of a monopoly position. This is directly contrary to European legislation. There is another member related to this monopoly, or two members who are in collegiate. We think that the quota for a qualified buyer should also be reduced from 50 million to 20 million, thus allowing greater competition in the gas market. There are some other little things I'm going to mention when we talk about the law in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6017	Here you are, Mr. Dejansky didn't mention you. (He speaks to the MP Radovanovic. Did he mention you? Please, Mr. Radovanovic, one moment. I warned the MPs earlier that in the future, so I didn't know you'd come forward, so I didn't mention you, they respect Article 102. Rules of Procedure, don't bring up information from other people's private lives. Please, I'm warning you for the first time. By the same article, I warn you for the first time, and I will consistently stick to the Rules of Procedure and certainly do not expect any of us MPs to flatter themselves to replace all MPs. Please, clearly and loudly warned all MPs that we would stick to this. So from Article 102, paragraph 4 - bringing out data from the private life of other persons, the family of MPs, what happened, etc., I have no intention of tolerate it and no reason to do so. There is no basis for replication. The replica was requested by Mr. Jovicic, and then, I assume by the Rules of Procedure, you will want to or you will give up, we will see. Would you like to talk about the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Radovanovic, would you like to talk about the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. After that replica, Mr. Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6018	Mr. President, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 97 because you didn't give me the right to a replica, and Article 97, paragraph 1, just indicates that I have the right to reply, because after my presentation, you misread exactly what I said about the pay phone, by stating that no data from private life is being reported. I've listed... Mr. Cvetkovic, come out for the pay phone and tell me. I listed in my secret meeting presentation, and I didn't advertise cafes, restaurants, cafes, etc. but I've just expressed my suspicion...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6019	Mr. Radovanovic, please be kind, since the injury per member you listed is gone, leave the pay phone, and I'll let you know... Please, it is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly to give an explanation in the event that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, be kind, I warn you, leave the speaker to explain both to you and to the MPs, and if you remain in harming the Rules of Procedure, of course, you will return. Here you go. So I warned you, quote... I'm just asking you to get off the phone. So, Article 97, which was called by the MP explicitly, quotes: "Unless the MP in his presentation at the session (so do not explain the President by the Rules of Procedure) of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation... "so no MP has misread anyone's exposure because no one has spoken of anyone's previous presentation. Then, "the people's ambassador to whom the exposure relates has the right to reply." Since there has been no exposure, pursuant to Article 96, the president of the Assembly is obliged to inform about the way he conducts the session and the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and that was the explanation. Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6020	You're not correct...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6021	I'm very correct with everyone. I did not speak of you at all, and I further informed the congregation that I had not spoken to you but to future MPs. We can consult the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6022	I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6023	Please, just a moment. An MP, Radovanovic, asked the Assembly in the voting day to make a statement on the violation of Article 97. Is that right? You're staying with Article 97? I ask the congregation to make a statement about it. Mr. Jovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6024	Ladies and gentlemen, I have answered the word for the truth. The first thing and the topic is the energy law. This two-step law addresses the natural gas supply issue. So we just have a qualified and tariff buyer. The law provides for energy entities which establish the obligation to supply natural gas to tariff customers, and within that energy entity, arrangements must be made - establishing the annual needs of tariff customers, as well as the conclusion of contracts for the necessary quantities. Furthermore, the law provides for the transport of natural gas, and the system operator, which must contain separate accounts, the management of the transport system, maintenance of propulsion and revitalisation and development. So what's being said is that gas is being removed, so it's not known how much it's been removed, there are no measuring instruments, it's simply as a possible technical solution is not acceptable and it's not in practice registered. We have one direction about gas supply outside our country. These are all measurable things and under clear control. It is this law that solves all those problems that are not defined, related to the transparency of accounts and to storage, especially when, as far as you know, contracts are concluded on an annual basis, are extremely high prices paid by our country for the storage of that gas. This is what this law provides for in the future as a solution; both technical and technological, and legislative legislation, a clear and transparent principle of the relationship between the entities listed in this first step and in the first area of resolution is introduced. Secondly, I wouldn't say this for one simple reason right now, and we're going to see it through the amendments and we're going to figure out in detail how this law predicted it. One more key thing, for the sake of truth, I must say to the whole public of Serbia, and to you, fellow Members of the people. It was the DSS that initiated the investigation of unnecessary imports of electricity back in 2001. It is known that in January, February and March, the most difficult period for the EPS, when literally one kilowatt of electricity was not imported, the electricity system was maintained, the system gave as much electricity as it needed for citizens. So, on the Assembly committees, when the SRS did not take part in their work, the DSS MPs specifically requested a statement of all relevant factors in the Assembly and before the Assembly committees concerning electricity imports. The DSS tie to these things... Simply, fame is open to everyone, so whoever loves to come; and it is not true that they were only Vuk Hamovic and Lazarevic, many business people were at that celebration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6025	Thank you. Mr. Jovicic, it applies to you too - every future abuse of replica, where there is no clear indication of what was said, I will not tolerate it. I thank all the MPs. I remind you once again, I'm going to run a session strictly in the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6026	Ladies and gentlemen, before us is an extremely important law, a law that for my Lazarec and the Lazarec people is the most important law for the reason that the Lazarec municipality has been existing for more than 50 years, just workers of the Colubare, working in electricity. My colleague Jovicic mentioned the committees earlier, and I want to say to this occasion that I attended the Committee on Industry and that this law did not go through in principle. In addition to members of the SRS Committee, some other members of the DSS and of the parties your coalition partners did not want to accept because they did not want to bear the great responsibility of this law, such as this. For my Lazarevcians, the most important thing is this law, because they are very concerned about the future of the electricity industry and the way it continues. Normally, if they weren't for this restructuring of the electricity industry, they'd be satisfied with the vertical integration of the electricity industry, which means they're not a piece of the electricity industry, and they're not preparing certain parts of the electricity industry for future privatisation. I think it's too early to do that. However, this law, as well as the other 10 laws of this agenda, we were given two or three days before the second round of presidential elections, which is knowingly and intentionally done so that we could not attend, because we had an obligation around the second round of elections and had no time to come and to comply with this law with the appropriate amendments, so that we would try it in this principle debate. There are good amendments; one of these is Article 171 and it is about further restructuring and management of the EPS. The reasons for the adoption of this law are clear to us - in order to enter the common European market, and the Athens Memorandum obliges us to do so; accordingly, we radicals are certainly not against it, but we do not consider it our goal to enter as importers of electricity, but our goal is to be exporters, and I am now going to say how and in some future time to be exporters of electricity. Of course, in case we don't pass this law, we would have made problems for ourselves, and one of these problems is that we would question further financing of the start-up investments of which is one of the "Colubar B"; and also, further investment in electricity would be at stake. And, of course, we aim to enter the common European market as electricity exporters. Here in this law we have a series of mistakes, random or deliberate. I have noticed that under the terms of Article 3(5), coal is not mentioned under the term energy. We know that over 70% of the total electricity we produce in Serbia is coming from the thermal power plant. This law does not mention coal as energy; it is based on some law on butane and oil, which would be adequate for some 50 years. In order to confirm all this, I have an elaborate that worked by a group of prominent experts, nine known experts in the electrical industry, which are seven geology engineers and two machine engineers, in collaboration with Energoinvest. The study was done, somewhere over 95 wells, in the municipality of Lazarec and partly on Ubu, so it was found that Mr. Geric signed this lab and it stands in it, that we have in the next 50 years coal sites, which means that we can base our electricity on thermal power plants. Now to confirm that story and what I said about "Coluber B", it's a start-up investment, we already have 40% of the installed material in the fields, in a very good state, people are savingly maintaining it and hoping that the time will come to continue these works. Mr. Velimir Ilic mentions a billion euros for this investment and for Kolubara A, which I am about to talk about now; it takes about 300m euros for these two investments and in a very short time we would become exporters of electricity. First, I'm going to say that it takes about 250m euros to complete that Colubary B thermal power plant, and to have the production of two times 350 megawatts. Also, Kolubara A, one of the fastest and cheapest investments, which is the reconstruction of the old "Colubara A" plant, and I've already said that on the Industry Committee. It's not a big investment, but a big deal would be done by getting about 200 megawatts of electricity and thus solving the huge problems of the population that have been at risk for more than 40 years from chimney pollution. We would solve the problem of heating up the Lazarec municipality, then the Hot Men and the Great Blacks. However, this mentions the alleged revitalisation of "Colubare A", which has no purpose whatsoever. It comes in translation as if we were patching up a court, waiting for a time when another court would be bought. So, this re revitalization story isn't appropriate. As for the restructuring of the electricity industry, I can say that we radicals still feel that what is done with Kostolec is too early to be restructured, because we have not yet achieved a certain stability of production; we need to put into order our energy facilities, and among other things, the hydropower plant, then Kostolac, and these are not big investments. But for the last 10 years, there have been strange events, some strange delays, etc. I'd say it's not exactly a story that's been going through newspaper articles for a long time, that you force and dose like a drug addict, that there are about 1,800 extra workers in the electro-priority. That story isn't true at all, and now I'm going to deny it. At Colubara A, Obrenovac "B", also in Kostolc and Svilinac, we have three large private companies that have been robbing Elektroprivreda for more than 10 years. The electricity industry pays these private companies more than their own workers who work, and there are more than 50%. They charge more money, and these workers actually receive 50% of the salary from workers in the Elektroprivreda. So it's a clean robbery of dozens of people who don't know their names all these years. The strategy of electricity traders is certainly to create short-term and long-term congestion. So I'd like to ask Mr. Naumov a few questions at the end. It happened in the '90s, and that's what Mr. Jovicic knows, that there were bridges burning in the Colubary. It's a construction that carries conveyors of tape and when coal disappears, there's no more supply and then a few months of stasis. It happened that there was a bridge burning in the Vreocs, in the Tamnava, and in the Obrenovac. Is that a coincidence, Mr. Naumov? In Colubary A, block A5, a reconstruction was made, but it was more than a year late. Since I said there are no extra workers, what will your employees do at the dispatch center? What are the workers doing at the Empress of the militia? What happens at the Ministry if you start these two agencies? What happened to the Russian loan that was intended for the revitalization of the Gerdapa?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6027	Replica, MP Veroljub Stevanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform MEPs of Article 101, so that there are no misunderstandings, the energy law we are considering is shared with MEPs on 15 May 2004.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6028	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I had to report for replica after discussing my last name, as chairman of the Industry Committee. This law has been given by the Committee on Industry really special attention. We devoted three sessions to the debate on this law and all sessions were attended, attended not only by MPs who were members of the Committee but also by other MPs. At one point when we were all present, so 15 MPs from the Committee, I put the law on the basis of a vote. We voted seven for two abstentions and five against. The SRS MPs were against them, the SPS MPs were abstentioned, and the rest were for, among them, the Democratic Party's MPs. That's true. The DSS MP, one of the board members, was not present at that time. After that, he was in the O.R. again, but it was too late. So that's true. Basically, this law has a majority on the board, and the vote was like I told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6029	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two nights ago, I was looking at Mr. Minister's BK. Yesterday, with an electricity bill (and I suppose all citizens of Serbia or at least Belgrade) received this notice starting with "respectful". Whenever ever since 2000, ever since DOS was in power, I've read on some notice that "honored" I've been touching my pocket where my wallet is, because I knew that after that, it would be empty. In this notice, as a consumer of electricity, the EPS informs me that the new prices are kilowatt hours without sales tax, as follows – in the green zone 2.64 higher and 0.66 lower tariffs, in the blue zone 3,95 and 0.99 and in red 9.36 and 2.34. Since I use natural gas in the household and my electricity is for lighting, for refrigerators, for televisions, I was in this first green zone. The show Mr. Minister participated in said it was a minimal increase. And by deciding that the green zone from 600 to 300 kilowatts I'm going to go into that blue zone, and I've calculated that I've paid about 1,300 dinars before, and now it's going to be 1,900 dinars. Many citizens of Serbia and Belgrade thus "minimously" 300, 400, 500 dinars received larger bills. If we calculate that it is 500 dinars for electricity, and then a few days back we have passed these laws and each one of them is slightly, but surely, holding a hand in the pocket, only the citizens of Serbia from these laws that we have adopted can they expect that their life costs will skyrocket. Let's get back to the law. I have read the law, and already in Article 2 it says: 1) electricity production, 2) oil production, 3) natural gas transport, 4) heat production, and there is no one that is the largest energy in Serbia, which Serbia has available for the next tens of years - coal. Did you, Mr. Minister, decide by this law to release coal mines down the water, especially mines with cave exploitation? Have you decided to close some of those mines or have you decided to privatize them? I'd like this energy to enter the law and discuss it. In Article 3, the Minister lists the terms that will be contained in this law, and says: oil derivatives. When you meet a five-year-old kid on the street and ask him what oil derivatives are, at least three will count. I think the MPs are so written, smart and experienced that they could mostly know these terms before the minister explained them to us in law. Oil derivatives - liquid or gas fuels obtained by oil processing, i.e. degazolinage (engine gasoline, etc.). Mr. Minister, degazolinage is a natural gas refinery from which propane and butane are extracted. Degazolinage can't be in this area where oil derivatives are. Next thing you know, it's a direct power line. We all knew what freeway or direct power lines were, so I don't think this Article 3 was necessary at all. A qualified buyer, so what's a buyer, what's equipment, etc. I will try to shorten my discussion so that all MPs of the SRS, since only we are going out, will have enough time to talk about their work. I'll only talk about the natural gas part. However, I have a few words to say about Article 6 concerning the strategy's implementation programme. When this law is read, it is clear that there is no strategy. Plans for the development of an autonomous province, units of local self-government and so on; in energy development plans, the state must be a decisive factor and only parts of the state transferred to local self-government can be related to local self-government activities. We get to Article 17, which is actually a key. And this law, like everyone before it and all those who will come after it to some new parliamentary elections, envisions the establishment of an agency. And again, they're going to tell us that these are European liquids, how we can just get into Europe, and I see that the Ministry of the Agency needs to move some of the very important jobs, and I think that by seizing them into the agency, they're going to be much smaller. Then the possibility of manipulation, not to say malfeasance and crime, is far greater. Article 25 says: "The performance of the energy market is being organised and organised in accordance with the objectives of the development of energy performance and the needs of customers in the Republic of Serbia to provide quality and security of electricity supply, with respect to the principles of competitiveness and equal legal position... "Here's a member where we first legalize what has been sort of illegal so far, and that's why the poll committee of this National Assembly worked for two months, and this fat material exists. So we introduce various Hamovics, Lazarevic, in an indirect way, into the law. I'll just... Of course, licenses, until now, the state has done it... We reach chapter 11, article 115 - natural gas. One part of the working century I spent in the natural gas industry; in 1972 I got a job and then what you mentioned in Article 117 - the natural gas transport system is a network of pipelines, pipelines, and still what is most important, it is said, and the storage of natural gas. Since 1972 we've been talking about the natural gas storage facility that's going to be built in Banatski Dvor and here, in 2004, unless there's some rock foundation, there's nothing done there. So the state won't be able to do anything about natural gas storage in the last few months. The natural gas warehouse, for people who are not from that area, especially in Banatski Dvor, is one of the used oil wells where the gas surpluses will pump and then pump. That's what I've been talking about for 32 years, how much work I've got. What is very important, Mr. Minister, in Article 130 - energy subject who performs the work of the distribution of natural gas is obliged to deliver natural gas to all customers in the area in which he performs this activity on the principles of public and non-discrimination. Just because of non-discrimination and due to some of the higher interests of the pipeline system and that part of the "NIS", or NIS, has come into a very invisible situation and in the part relating to Vojvodina, I mean "NIS gas", and in this section relating to Serbia, and here I mean "NIS Energogas". 250 million dollars and a few more customers owed and what Mr Dinkic has now done, which you are boasting, has beaten up the debt the Russians owed us with our natural gas debt, under much more unfavourable conditions. I must say, since I was present when this debt was discussed. So, under far more unfavourable conditions than they normally could have. And another thing, the Russians were interested in building at least two branches of the pipeline system, I mean highway pipelines through Serbia, and it was supposed to be spent in that. Serbia is in a position where, despite the pipeline... By the way, the Yugoslav pipeline and the Horgos-Paracin gas pipeline were built precisely with great denials of NIS. Unfortunately, the Yugoslav pipeline today has no border with Croatia, we have only part of the Croatian border to the Pančevo Refinery. In 2000, a fleet that met the needs for crude oil of the Rapfinery Pančevo and the Refinery Novi Sad was destroyed and a contract was concluded with Croatia for a fat commission, and we are now transporting crude oil from Omis to Krk via pipelines to the Pančevo Refinery and the Nova Sad Refinery. The legislation governing this segment of society must be strict and rigorous, and it is about fire protection, especially for the protection of gas pipeline systems. The people who work at Energogas and NISgas are professional, trained, qualified, but it seems to me that no one has consulted them in writing these laws. I think you also had to make this law more high-quality in this part of the natural gas and in that part of the liquid gas and other energies related to this. I'm sorry to have to cut short, but we have a few more speakers, otherwise there's a lot to say about this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6031	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6032	Just for a little while, the essence of every law is to set a goal, not a strategy. So, about the story of the great problem of the lack of natural gas storage; that's not what our country has said, as you said yourself, since 1972 and much earlier so far, it's not solved. But the question of why it hasn't been solved is we can't ask every government. So this law sets goals that never existed until now, because there were only strategies that did not commit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6033	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6034	You said, Mr. President, that you would no longer tolerate the abuse of the pay phone. Mr. Jovicic, let him get a job at the ministry, be a minister, go out and speak and comment on what the MPs say. You, Mr. Jovic, come out after the SRS and you explain something. I don't know what you're in this assembly. Why do we have a minister sitting here, if you're better than a minister, go to this place. We will no longer tolerate this, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6035	Thank you. Just to let you know, you weren't there, I warned you I wouldn't tolerate it, so it's not a dispute. I've already warned the MPs twice today. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Branislav Rankic, and let the People's Messenger Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft energy law already brings a surprise in the first article. We were used to the fact that the current draft laws behind which the government is behind usually predict the establishment of one agency, and here in the first article define the establishment of two agencies, or one is established, and the second one is educated. I tried to determine the difference between education and establishment. I finally found out, I guess, because this other one is taking over part of the Ministry's staff. Article 2 - two forms of energy and two energies; the form of energy has more, some other forms of energy could be cited, regardless of what is not the subject of this law, and when it comes to energy, it is truly unusual, and for no reason only oil and natural gas were singled out as energy, and there is no energy that Serbia has and can rely on in the future, which is coal. Article 4 refers to energy policy and to the subsequent members from 5 to 10 on the energy development strategy. I think it would be a place to say something about the balance of the Serbian energy termidor; to those who love Vujaklia, I will say it means the hottest moon or the hottest period of time. The term was created during the French bourgeois revolution, and here it can be considered "hot potatoes in the hands". Namely, the balance of this Serbian energy termidor is quite catastrophic and has shown how much we have been wandering for the past 50 years when it comes to establishing a strategy. Given that this law does not say anything about strategy, I expect that we will continue to wander and that the strategy will have to be made or made by some later governments. In the first stage right after the war, until the middle of the '60s, it was the current so-called. A carbon-nuclear phase where the state invested large resources in the opening of mines and coal exploitation, both surface and underground exploitation, and where a nuclear energy production programme was developed. In the 1960s, we became friends, through the movement of non-classified, with some Arab countries, and it turned out that oil at that time, with the average price of $5 per barrel, was very cheap, so we didn't need to further exploit coal. Then, unfortunately for us, not knowing what would happen later, we closed a total of 34 coal mines with underground exploitation in the Republic of Serbia, between 1965 and 1968. The scribe's mines, mines, Romanesque, Western seas, costumes, Fruskogorian, etc. have disappeared, and we have turned to oil. And the senior MPs will remember that at that time they were burning solid fuel all over the apartments for famous oil workers. In order to prove what kind of energy error we are, we have gone beyond that, under the influence of the political establishment, on the so-called so-called. The third phase in which we turned to power generation. At that time, most of the population used electricity for heating, so the famous TA furnaces were created, but compared to that, without a clear strategy, some small TEs with small capacities began to be destroyed. So TE disappeared in Mirovo, which had an installed power of 5-6 megawatts and which could in the event of an emergency in the energy system supplying a mining-topic base pine that was otherwise giant. The period after that, the period in which we are today, can be called an energy period of confusion and confusion, where we ourselves don't know what our strategy is and the question is how we're going to move on. I'm going back to article 10, where we're talking about setting up an energy agency. Otherwise, on the Committee, representatives of the ministry called it a regulatory agency. It's a classic for the establishment of agencies, only here the members of the council and the president elects the National Assembly, usually done by the government. Only in Article 13, it is clear that the agency is in fact completely independent, that it depends on no one, and that is not right from the position of the SRS. However, what was most interesting to me in this law is Article 41, where it is mentioned about the performance of energy activities and, among other things, it is said - energy activities which, within the meaning of this law, are considered activities of general interest: electricity production, electricity transmission, transmission system management, electricity market organisation, electricity distribution, electricity management and electricity trade. The same is said of oil, gas and heat, with Article 41 not saying that it can also be traded with gas, but only traded with electricity and oil, heat and gas are not traded. I'm telling you this because in some later members it's said that you can trade with these two, one energy and one form of energy, and it's unclear why it hasn't been inserted into Article 41. I'll tell you what members I mean. Articles 80 to 109 talk about electricity, mostly about trade, and this law can be called the law on electricity trade. Since this is the energy we produce the most, which we have for our needs, in the future we will have for export. The basic intensity of this law was to arrange or try to regulate the electricity trade. Oil is a little bit of attention, from Articles 109 to 115, I guess it's already a stalking scheme, the structure is known, as oil derivatives are produced, as they are transported, there's probably no interested powerful men who would do so, those who had, they're already doing so. And the gas is also given a little attention. We come to Article 146 which speaks of the establishment of an energy efficiency agency. It's interesting here, when it comes to the establishment of this agency, there are only two members. Nothing has been mentioned here, nor will the agency function, nor who will manage the agency, because it is likely that whoever proposed this law was very unclear what the energy efficiency agency could do. I have to remind you of one of the basic laws, which is that energy cannot be destroyed, nor can it be created, can only go from one form to another. Every transition from one form to another, part of the energy is lost, or is not fully exploited, and this is done by certain machines and devices. The only way you can achieve the energy efficiency of this agency is if you had planned to get us on TV with various ads (such as those -- it's not hard to be nice) to learn how to get into the room to turn on the light, to get out of it to turn on the light or if you thought you were trying to convince us to play vampires, to get up at night in the sky, to turn on electrical devices so we could even pay for electricity. If you had anything else to increase efficiency, then you'd at least have more members on this agency, to tell us who's going to manage it. This is just what it says in two members, the agency is established and founding and legal status. I come here to Article 167, he is already in the transitional and final provisions, where it is said - on the day of the start of work, the Energy Efficiency Agency assumes all the funds, rights, obligations and employees taken over by the Ministry of Mining and Energy in accordance with the provision of Article 14. Regulation amending and supplementing the Secretariat-General Regulation and other government services. So what I said at the beginning, the only thing I could justify was why one agency was founded, and the other one was educated, it could be this, there's no other reason. You have in Article 168 that the minister will adopt the act referred to in Article 30(2), Article 32(2), Article 47(3), Article 50, Articles 114, Article 3(3) and Article 150(4). These are all great obligations and I highly doubt you, Minister, that you will be able to respond to all these obligations, provided that you are exclusively doing this. Although I am not a member of the Committee, because of this topic I was present at two meetings of the Committee on Industry, when this law was discussed. It often shifted there that this is the law that prepares EPS for sale. At that time, a man from the ministry said he was not preparing, that this law would not make privatisation, but that privatisation would certainly be carried out by amending the Privatisation Act. Just one more thing, since you're the Minister of Mining and Energy, could you from this pay phone for at least one minute to contact the miners from Bor and Majdanpek who are on strike today, at the announcement, should have blocked the highway at Paracino and yesterday had a protest rally. It would be very important for them to hear what the Ministry of Mining and Energy thinks about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6037	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81(1), I'm taking a break until 14.40. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing to search the 10th item of the agenda. Please determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I agree that 94 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have a quorum to work with. National MP Sreto Peric has a word, and let Rodoljub Gačević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard of the energy law that it is both reform and European. None of that is true. You will see that even after the adoption of this law, we will not be closer to Europe one millimeter, and no reform will be felt. This law can be said to be champion's. For what? Because it's one of the few laws that predicts two agencies. You have seen that the laws we have adopted so far have been designed for the establishment of one agency, and this is the first member to provide for the establishment of two agencies, namely the Energy Agency and the Energy Efficiency Agency. Yesterday at the beginning of his presentation, the minister said that we are the last country to pass this law. I wish, since the law is the way it is, it's still not on the agenda, but later, when it's prepared, it's better done, only then that we have it on the agenda. Citizens of Serbia and people who were willing to invest certain funds in investing in mini-power plants must have expected more than this law. Of course, potential investors of these mini-power plants have acquired framework limits related to these mini-power plants, but it will not be enough for these power plants to be built. Then, Serbian citizens expected that after the law was passed, the bills they received for spent electricity would be much clearer, that the price structure that makes up the value of their accounts would be known. You have also seen that certain consumers are favored in certain provisions. Small consumers, mostly Serbian citizens, who, due to a very difficult situation, are not able to meet their obligations in a timely and orderly manner, are not protected, but are usually large consumers of electricity that have connections in miles of close government i.e. The Ministry of Energy or any other ministry in the Serbian government. It would be nice, when ministers explain certain laws envisioning the establishment or education, as the law says, of certain agencies, to go out and say how many of their ministries employ workers, what a qualification structure is, and whether they are doing the quality of those tasks for which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has chosen them. There are very often comments that all the problems that exist in a particular ministry will be solved by the very agencies that are both high-quality and professional, both impartial and not dependent on anyone. Later, when I talk about certain members of this bill, you'll see how impartial these agencies are, how self-sufficient, and whatnot. Article 6 of the Law states that the implementation of the strategy is prescribed. And, indeed, it is a good thing that plans or strategies for the development of energy are envisaged, but what will happen if the government does not adopt such a programme. Even in transitional and final, or criminal provisions, it does not stand in which way it will be sanctioned. Article 12 provides for the establishment and operation of the Agency, so Article 12(2) states that the Agency will be able to make donations; of course, other than donations from energy entities. You have often heard that Honorable fellow MP Zoran Krasic said that cheese is free only on mousefish and that there is nothing free anywhere else. Members of the SRS consider that they can only grant funds in respect of humanitarian and other organisations or state bodies, institutions and institutions which are legally formed and which are to perform certain state functions and roles; in no case can they be organisations or entities receiving grants. Then Article 13 states that these agencies are free and independent in their work. Of course they're free and independent, except from donors, I guess, because it's safe that donors who are willing to give funds, or transfer them to the use of agencies, know why they're doing it. The Agency will also carry out the following tasks, which is set out in Article 15, and among other things is said to be carrying out tariff systems for the calculation of electricity. And according to Article 165 of the law, the agency is said to be formed, i.e. it will start operating within a year. Article 164 states that the agency will start working after enrolment, where it does not specify what deadline it is. Of course, in order for a particular entity to begin its activity it is necessary to be entered in a particular register. Then, in Article 21 - president and members of the agency’s council, they are obliged to do certain tasks, yet it does not stand in that article what will happen if they fail to fulfill that obligation. Article 32 states that the entity responsible for issuing an energy permit will be obliged to issue that authorisation within 30 days, but still no provision for what will happen, or for what consequences it will have for that entity if it does not do its job within the time limit provided for in the law. Article 45 states that the licence will be issued at the request of an energy entity for each energy activity in particular for a period of 10 years. I don't understand why it's being issued for this limited period. Maybe the minister has an explanation for why it's been 10 years. It is understood that it should obtain that licence for an indefinite period, with the energy subject being obliged all the time to respect the conditions provided for in this law so that he can carry out his activity, which means that it is pointless to determine the time for which that energy permit can apply. Very often you hear and talk about a certain group of MEPs entering Europe; I have to inform you that it would be better if we talked less about it, and we show more by example that we are for it. 15 days ago on the Drina River, on that beauty, there was a sports-recreative event, a regatta, where there were about 650 vessels, about 2,500 people. If someone from the government had been present and saw the behaviour of those participants who threw all the excess material, empty bottles and others, it could have concluded that the group of people, the Serbian citizens, had to wait for another time to enter Europe; and those who had collected their waste and eventually put their waste into certain places, certainly, already showing their example of entering Europe. The Serbian Radical Party is also for entering Europe. And when we are clean and Drina and all the other rivers, and our environment, and when our technologies are clean and our farmers can live honestly from their work, process their surfaces with hard work, that they can support their families, when the workers can return to the factories, then we will be able to enter Europe, then Europe will want us to become its members. This is the only way the SRS wants to go to Europe, and by passing laws and prescribing those laws that apply to the EU, it is certain that we will not be open to the entry of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6040	The word of the messenger of the people is Rodoljub Gačević; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mita Abram.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6041	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as well as the current law and this law foresees the introduction of agencies, two: energy agencies and energy efficiency agencies, as a preparation for this first one. It's not clear from the text who founded the agency and why. Article 15 sets out the Agency’s tasks, and these are mainly business activities that would otherwise be dealt with by the RES, so it is not clear whether it is a parallel body, government or someone’s service. Rather, it could be said that it is some kind of service or an undertaking to transfer responsibility to someone else's field, or an inter-space for manipulation, and that what is in Article 10, or in the description, should be thrown out, and jobs should be left in the power of the ministry for the responsibility of the ministry. Indeed, all this has been mixed up, the agency is in charge of the council, and the council is responding to the National Assembly, and then the council adopts the financial plan, and the Assembly gives consent, I mean the National Assembly of Serbia. It is particularly unclear the status of the energy efficiency agency, with tasks in the area of preparation for the energy agency, which, under Article 147, submits a report to the government. According to this Article 147, the agency also performs education, so it is not clear whether it is education of professional staff from the agency or education of the population in terms of rational energy consumption, I am primarily thinking about electricity. If it's citizenship education, then it's better to do it through school education, like it used to be a household. Better than we have some college stuff now, etc. Therefore, it is either necessary to introduce such a form of education, i.e. education or to educate the public through television shows in terms of more rational consumption, above all, electricity, as the most expensive and the finest energy. Energy is one of the main items in the cost of almost all products in industrial production, it directly affects the cost items in the production of industrial products. Therefore, this price directly affects the cost of production, and therefore it is necessary to save as much electricity as possible as possible, as the most expensive energy. And it's better to talk about rational consumption than saving. Practice, as well as consumer logic, is to save only what is expensive, but this does not mean that it needs to increase the price of electricity to save, first of all, because this energy is the finest, the finest and the easiest to transform it into any other form of energy, but it needs to be substituted by electricity to other energies, such as heating wood. Because such a relationship is price and wood is quite expensive electricity is often used for heating where there is no need, so it is an even greater impact on the electrical grid, especially when the season is. Therefore, Article 141 should confer privileges on all natural persons, not only legal persons, who produce energy for personal purposes. This would result in the discharge of the energy system, and the benefits should be given in the form of tax and customs reductions in imports of equipment that does not exist or is not sufficiently available. First of all, I think of alternative and other energy sources, which are virtually unlimited, like solar energy. It is probably known that there are almost no houses, no apartments in Greece, especially in smaller places, without installed solar heating. Here in this case, I don't see any mention of it at all, that it's taken into consideration, as if it's negligible, and that's one resource that's practically irreplaceable. Therefore, it is not necessary to increase electricity prices, because this would trigger price increases, but tax incentives need to relieve the price, for example, of heating wood, of coal. And coal is nowhere to be considered as energy again. It should also be made easier at the price of thermal insulation materials and the like. It's not just about production, even cheap energy, it's about saving, in terms of rational consumption. The people say they did everything they had, saved more. Or what they say -- don't do it if you don't save it. It is a logic that should be served both in this law, i.e. in the people and in the public. That is why thermal insulation solutions should be made privileged and mandatory, and for this reason I believe that this law should be passed in relation to other laws in similar areas, primarily in the area of construction. Articles 66, 67, 68 provides not only for tariff prices, but also for seasons, daily syringes, strengths, so that the bills will continue to be in areas, in colours, in tariffs, etc. Equality of electricity network loads can simply be solved with these tariffs, however, everything else is a way to rob and force the consumer. The electric engineers don't know how to interpret what an engaged force is. Therefore, power is not paid, electricity is paid, or kilowatt hours. This law is prone to violence against citizens not only when it comes to the price, but also the maintenance of energy facilities, so let's say in Article 79, it states that, conditionally speaking, a peasant should cut down trees, or grow below power lines, or electro-prisively do so. The peasant doesn't have the money to buy shoes, let alone buy expensive equipment so he can remove the plant beneath the power lines. Furthermore, criminal provisions in Article 159 refer to criminal acts, i.e. to the arbitrary association of objects to a distribution system. It is, by logic, violence against violence, because domestic self-government acts of violence against the public, mostly about the election, by blackmailing citizens not to join them into the network until they go to elections and vote for someone who is at their will. So the current was, and it's still a powerful means of imposing election results on voters. Remember, gentlemen of the former DOS, when you used the same methods in the Serbian October revolution, when you promised the citizens of Nis you wouldn't charge them electricity, so they were cheated and today they can't get out of those debts that they set themselves on fire. I doubt that this practice will continue, so ultimately I want to point out that this law only covers a few types of energy, while coal and many others, especially alternative energies, are not even mentioned, and is not known about their status. That's no wonder since the law is passed in a hurry, and at a strange time like, say, a July moon. I suggest that the law return to work for the sake of comprehensiveness, completeness and quality, and then return to congregation procedure. It's better to do that than to clean up the law with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6042	The People's Messenger Mita Avramov has the word, and let Tomislav Penezic be prepared. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there's a lot to be said about the bill on energy. We all know that the Industry Committee didn't accept this law, that he didn't pass. The minister himself said on TV that the law isn't the best. I don't think this assembly should pass this law. This power that came after the December elections boasted that nine agencies had abolished at one point, and now we have three new agencies in this law alone. We have three, because we have the agency's advice. That's the agency, that's what you said here. The essence of this law and the key to everything should have been the proper distribution of funds obtained from electricity. So everything should have been properly deployed by producers of electricity, distributors, etc. However, according to this draft law, the Serbian Parliament takes care of everything in the first place, and it is known that when someone has the majority, then his proposal passes. The second is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and third is the Agency for Efficiency. After the agency comes the ministry to come back to the regulatory agency after the ministry. These two agencies have the agency's advice. The agency's advice, it says, is a non-profit regulatory body, financing is from the annual fee. That's for advice. They are financed from the annual fee by deciding for themselves how much they need to finance from that annual fee. The Agency's Agency's work control is controlled by the National Assembly. Normally, who has a majority in the National Assembly will say that the agency has been working overtime and has no problems at all. The agency's council consists of five members with a four-year term, and can be maximum in two mandates; these people should meet the conditions that they have high professional training, ten years of experience, that they are not MPs, nor committees, that they are not punished, that they are not officials of political parties and without engagement or receiving from energy entities. Our time will come, it will soon be shown, but let me tell you, about these agencies and what the draft of this law predicted, that producers will benefit the least again from their production of electricity. Merchants will recharge their pockets, a contract with EFT, Hamovic and Lazarevic was signed again. They will be the ones who will take most of the funds and determine who they will give the funds to. Don't forget that the thermal power plants, the hydropower plants of our country we built, the citizens of Serbia. We gave up one day's profits for that donation. Now, after six months, when this law is passed, the privatisation of our country's electricity system will take place. It's of strategic importance to every country, to every economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6044	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word has Dragan S. Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, having seen that this law has been discussed for many years, it has been said for years, and that different opinions and changes have been made, then it is no wonder that there are many dilemmas, different opinions, and in a certain degree a number of arguments of different opinions. It has simply not been regulated by a single law so far, but individual legal acts have been passed that have been designed specifically for the parts of this area. Also, for the first time, we have a situation where, in a uncompromising way, our legislation is aligned with the European Union rules governing the internal market for electricity and natural gas. Our MP group estimates that this is a positive intensity and we support that part of the law relating to this harmonisation. However, the SPS parliamentary group will adopt its definitive position under this law after a principled debate and debate on amendments, since we believe that there are a number of issues that are not yet sufficiently clarified and some of the questions we would like to get more precise answers to. What are the main traits that characterize this law? Decentralisation of rights and responsibilities in the planning and implementation of development programmes, the establishment of an independent regulatory agency, the organisation of electricity markets with the aim of introducing competition, the introduction of a qualified buyer, system operator and so on. What I expect from the adoption of this law is something relating to the energy sector development strategy. It is clear that there is a framework in this section that assumes the adoption of this strategy. There are different opinions on this issue, there are opinions that perhaps the strategy, at least globally and in principle, should have been adopted on the basis of it, and the ministry has been defined as a different variant and is now deplaced to talk about it. We are starting with the fact that in the past three and a half years, the government of the Republic of Serbia and we as a state did not have any strategy for the development of the energy sector. To this extent, it was neglected that from very competent levels in energy, they heard the opinion that we may not need the development strategy, given that we can, as a system and as a state, turn to imports of energy and thus address future energy needs. It is too high to say that such an approach and attitude can bring no benefit. Of course, the consequence is that no development project in both EPS and NIS has been launched during that period and that we do not have a power facility at this time. What is very important, when it comes to the development strategy, is the fact that already with the assumed total development rates in the Republic and the assumed energy needs that would follow that development we can say that we have a deficit in force of around 1000 megawatts, which is particularly multiplyed by the fact that Europe can generally not boast of the perspective energy situation, so we need to think in that direction. So I'm adding the fact that we have one development project that's pretty old. I'm talking about the beginning of the construction of TE "Columbara B", twice 350 megawatts, where so far about $400 million has been invested, which has been standing for years as an investment project without explaining why, because I think everyone knows why. Secondly, we have one undisputed quality location for building one big power block, I'm talking about the location of Tent B3 in Obrenovac, which is equipped with more than needed infrastructure, where there is a clear chance of building a modern energy block. In this regard, I appeal to the Ministry that this strategy appears before the National Assembly as soon as possible and we expect answers to these questions and to define the priorities I have spoken of, or to some others who establish themselves as our future reasons and development programmes. Of course, all of this applies, if you stop one growing resonance in the past period which is... (President: Please allow the MP to speak. ) If one reason is that it is dominantly intended to introduce such a situation into our development investment programmes that the funds that were primarily donated here are brought not only spare parts, but also labour, although our businesses are highly specialised and qualified for the field of energy, and I will only list some. It's a "Termoelectrico", "Minel", "North-Gosa", "MIN", not to order further; they were practically out of business while relatively free technology operations were carried out by companies from abroad. I'm not going to go into the justification or the inexcusability of such arrangements right now, but I think that this reasoning must be left behind slowly in one development project. I would like to raise four important questions that the law treats or does not treat and say just a few words about them. It's a matter of energy activity, and I'll tell you why right away. There is no mention of the issue of coal in terms of energy performance. It's very interesting, I think someone mentioned yesterday, that a capital energy activity, which at this point in the Power industry employs close to 20,000 workers and annually delivers over 30 million tons of coal, simply did not find a place to list energy operations. The second question is the issue of a future energy sector organisation that includes both the way in which it is restructured. I know there's been talk about it, it's caused a lot of controversy in the past period, and I know that there were political groups that stood up for the so-called. horizontal restructuring or horizontal restructuring, which would represent one power plant - one company. It is a method that has no basis in the positive experiences of other countries, nor in the practice that we know, and I have the impression that the current ministry has given up on that variant. As a parliamentary group, we believe that this is not sufficiently potent in the very text of the law, that is, the law does not deal with the fact, but leaves the Government to deal with these issues later. I don't want to be maligned or optimistic, but we've had governments in the recent past that represented the exact opposite principle of this which represents today's government. We hope that the ministry will use the framework set by this law in this direction. Why do we think that the vertical way and the vertical principle of organization is necessary? Why do we think that the transitional provisions simply need to underline it, and I agree that, in a way that is not quite clear, this principle is affirmative, but we do not think it would be harmful for it to be taxed and I do not understand why it is avoided. The second thing I'm saying is, that's the attitude of our parliamentary group to these questions that I've listed. The position of the SPS parliamentary group is very clear. We believe public enterprises can be restructured in the direction of vertically integrated state-owned modern companies. These companies would be market-oriented on the activity of electricity and coal production, transmission and distribution and with separate and independent financial accounts. This would result in the creation of market-oriented companies and in this case the manufacturing sector, i.e. The production would cover thermal and hydro potentials in which coal mines would be. The distribution companies could be reduced to one rational number, not to go into details, and the transmission function would still be performed by one company. Thus, a unique company would have the obligation to provide tariff customers with regular, continuous power supplies at a competitive and controlled price. I think it is the most acceptable solution to this moment for the state and for the citizens and for the employees of the energy sector. It is only in phase two, which I hear takes years, that we could discuss the separation of the transmission function into an independent state-owned enterprise, and only after that could we talk about how some future privatisation would be accessed. I want to point out one question that has been exploited in the media lately when it comes to restructuring the energy sector, which is a matter of extra employees. I have the impression that especially in the domain of electricity, this question is getting a little sensationalistic meaning without need. It's safe for us in the electricity industry and in the oil industry to have extra employees, that would be difficult to argue. Is the process of restructuring, in the process of creating modern energy companies, in the process of rationalising their business, the issue of number one? I mean, quite responsible, that's not question number one. I don't think we need to solve it, but I feel like we've started solving it from that side first. That's what we started to solve in a way that causes further irrationality. We now have a situation in the electricity industry to create new businesses in which workers from parent public enterprises are transferred under the reasoning of labour cuts, and then these workers from another company are doing the same jobs, in the same jobs, in the same way, the same people, but at a higher cost, because they are now being paid as workers by performers, i.e. as external services. I have the impression that one form is being satisfied in a way that causes further irrationality. The SPS parliamentary group's stance on the matter is also quite precise. We believe that the number of employees and its reduction should have one gradual trend that should be parallel to the restructuring of all other elements in public enterprises. There's no time here for data. Now, if we were to say here how much our power plants or mines spend more energy than our standards are, we'd get the data that these funds are significantly higher than the cost of employees. I'm simply under the impression that in one modern way, we first touched on this question that I think might have other consequences, not just technological or financial economic. Our parliamentary group believes this should be resolved through co-operation with the union, through a partnership relationship with the union, and in any way avoid future restructuring of the energy sector creating social cases in that part of the business of these companies and those activities that both in the most difficult times and in the most difficult conditions worked and produced. I think it's perfectly natural for this restructuring policy to agree with the union, because the proposed model would have the effect of least fired workers, not to say that this would have an effect on the price of electricity as the ultimate effect. In the end, let me say a few words about solutions to the electricity market. A lot is said about it, and we cannot safely say from this pay phone that there is no need for changes and that there is no need to adopt some legal solutions that this bill makes. I just want to comment on a word that's been heard many times from this pay phone in the last two days, and that's a monopoly thing. Of course, this law solves this issue in a quality way and I fully agree with that. But when implementing and adopting other acts that will restructure our energy entities based on the framework created by this law, we have to ask ourselves, what kind of monopoly did our public enterprises have in the domain of electricity generation when others set the price for them? These companies never set the price of electricity. These companies produced and supplied electricity at prices which were five or more times lower than prices on the market or prices in the nearest environment. What kind of monopoly is that, when these companies deliver energy to customers who pay that energy at 70%; they don't pay 30%, and they still use it. In this regard, we must be careful about this classification of monopoly activities. And what a monopoly of companies, powerful companies that did their job in the most difficult conditions, when certain political groups called on citizens and institutions not to pay for their services. That's no theory at all. We have had such a case, its consequences can't be cured today, and all this suggests that the issue of monopoly is quite relative, and when we apply this law, in determining the market, we have to bear in mind that it is necessary to priorly execute another resolution and one total consolidation, technical and technological, but also economic-financial consolidation and stabilisation of these systems. Pushing a careless, uncompromising production sector of electricity, I think the same applies to NIS, in one uncontrollable competition would not be good for them. I think as a legislative body, we care about creating conditions for national property, such as EPS and NIS, to be preserved. We will preserve it if we create market and competition conditions that will respect the fact that our production plants are on average 27 years old, the fact that over the past three and a half years we have invested in the electricity sector, which from donations, which from our own resources, $1.2 billion, we have done significant jobs. But for those funds, we didn't get any extra megawatts of power, nor did we increase the amount of kilowatt hours produced. In this regard, we must put our production capacities, our current public enterprises in one position of a more beneficial relationship than would be dictated by wild privatisation or wild market conditions, which would lead to significant disturbances in energy supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6046	Thank you. Before I conclude a principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The SRS parliamentary group president Tomislav Nikolic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on the draft energy law did not in principle convince the MPs of the SRS that it was necessary to convene an extraordinary session of the National Assembly for this law to be passed. No, for a few reasons. First of all, except for one DSS MP whose job it was, no one went out to defend the proposed law. And those who will vote for him have made their remarks to him, they are bound by the knowledge of matter, and they will vote for him because they are bound by party discipline. What happens if we adopt the energy law in the voting day? If we are going to get a strategy for energy development – we will not. Whether the energy policy will come out of it – it will not. Whether it will come up with a strategy programme – it will not. If we're going to get an energy agency, we won't. If we're going to get that other efficiency agency, as it's already called – we won't. You'll get what's coming to you in the election, just enjoy yourself. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] It bothered me to look at you so much on this side anyway, it's too many of you, and I don't like it until the government throws the opposition MP, something's wrong. It's okay now. We'll get a market for the fall season for the winter season. That's why we sit here, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at a bad time, when it's not time to do this bill, because everything has to be prepared to have a free market for electricity at a time when we need electricity. What is the purpose of this law? Complete destruction of our power plants, Serbia's electricity industry, its collapse at the level of the municipal enterprise in some municipality. It is those who will vote for this law who care that it was created for tens of years, that the villages, the houses, the evicted people, that half of the Forest is occupied by waste from the thermal power plants and that the country has been destroyed forever. And what a lot of people suffer from chronic diseases because they live in the immediate environment of the thermopower plant. Nobody cares what happens to Serbia, it's important to pass this law. I wish you'd said one sentence about how necessary it was to be brought, except for the permanent one. And when it comes to the law on sports, you will say – we must because of the entry into Europe. I understand that. Don't even repeat that sentence, let him write above the president's head – the law you are now discussing is a condition for us to enter Europe. We know it's a condition for Europe, and we need to discuss it. But why are we now passing this law, with so many objections made not only by the MPs of the SRS but also by the MPs of all other parliamentary groups, except for the DSS parliamentary group. G17 plus stays out of it. They've shared the odds with the DSS, and they won't touch each other when it comes to the laws that are in their personal interest. I repeat after this speaker what I was saying in the paper. A few people from your party are directly funded by an energy lobby. These people run not only your party, now they run state policy. This law follows as a result of the announcement by a man whose interests you are doing this. You know very well who he is. That's the one whose name you shouldn't have mentioned. He was mentioned by one of your MPs shyly, and the minister must not be silent. They're friends of your teammates from the party, and the Martians, and Ljiljana Nedeljkovic and your chief of staff. These are Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, the best men, and there are seven of them. They got into a fight with the first minister, tried to get the second minister into it. In the electricity industry and where you worked, they had their own people, they set up their own people, they spread like hydra through Serbia's Elektroprivreda. You didn't stop them from doing that, you fell under their influence. Now they've taken over Boris Tadic. They met with him at the Daka restaurant before the second round of elections and financed him directly in the second round of elections. You know, it's not morning enough to wake up and sleep at night to let someone admit that you lived that day. You have to do something that day. What you're sitting here and you're hanging around like nails, and you're wondering between yourselves what we're doing today, it's not enough to wash your conscience or to confirm to you that you've lived today. You have not lived in this congregation today. You're waiting for this session to end, to vote the law, to bow down to your boss and go on vacation. I have warned many authorities in this congregation, and in 2001 I also reminded this strongest DOS of yours. At that time, each of them thought it was worth more than your entire assembly. What I'm experiencing right now, these throws, it's like cake to me, what I had to experience back then. No one believed it would happen to DOS, what happened to him. Now I warn you, and this is the end of the story of righteousness. This is where the story of honesty ends. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began serving the oligarchs. This is the law, and the one before it—the law of the cures was the same. They'll slap you on the forehead, maybe in a year, maybe in two, but they'll always have someone ask you what you've been involved in, accusing you of taking part in this, and you'll say, "I've been a member of the People's Party and these political parties." That's not enough. I repeat again, and more about this law, if I have to, I will not even say: the law is passed for the sake of the EFT firm, not for Serbia, not for the organisation, not for the citizens of Serbia, not for the price of electricity, not for better supply, not for loyal competition. Because you here are a state-owned company, created by all Serbian citizens, kicking your foot in the street, to get into competition with those you gave state money three years ago to build so much that they can destroy that state-owned company. Maybe I overestimate some of you, maybe you didn't plan so long-term, but this was all planned in 2001, when that company was founded. You obviously didn't do it at the time, and I've been dealing with this problem for a year. Here, you know which parliamentary group has crazy manners, and this is manifested by one of them turning towards Ćirkovic and saying – come on Đirkovic. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] So I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill, you will one day be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6048	Replication rights, president of the DSS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6049	Since you spoke very nicely of who your best friends are, since you gave such a beautiful political speech and in connection with the energy law, you would be better off, as president of the SRS parliamentary group, formally the largest parliamentary group in the Assembly, talking about the content of this law. You talked for nine minutes, and you didn't say one word about this law. You were saying other things, something that had nothing to do with this, and you made it up. What do you know who's best man and friend to? If you know, go ahead, give the whole genealogy, make one godfather's family tree. I'll warn you how much what you're saying has nothing to do with it. The head of your political party is best man Vuk Draskovic and vice versa. What does that prove? That you co-operate as political parties. What difference does it make? If the DSS had ever wanted to talk about best man-to-man relationships, it would have mentioned some other politicians who today, unfortunately, are no longer alive. But we didn't mention for the simple reason that we knew that the best man's relationship in that case didn't matter. So what you're talking about is a flat-rate political story that has nothing to do with the agenda of this assembly, with what's on the agenda of today's session and the energy law. That's what we're talking about. And it would be much better for you to speak meaningfully about what is on the agenda, that your MPs speak about what is the content of the agenda, not that we are experiencing amendments to the members of the law that read, from the first to the last, that each member should be deleted, that you may be entitled to a discussion and that you may abuse the right to debate the law in particular. Such a case will be now, after this debate in principle. Siasset is an amendment that states that each member is individually deleted, so that we can return to the debate in principle, in order to talk about it, in order to pass what is the essence and content of this law, which is an attempt to harmonize domestic regulations with European Union regulations. That's what you don't really care about, and that's the real story of all this. Nothing else. Please continue the discussion of the details will show, in fact, what your real intentions are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6050	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic, a replica. Here you go. He was named after his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6051	I know, Mr. Nikolic, that you still have post-election trauma, but the right to tell you, I am powerless to help you here. And when it comes to those manners, in order to have those manners, I would have to look like you, which is simply impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6052	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6053	To mention Boris Tadic, president of the DS, our president, I wanted to say he doesn't need a defense. But to mention what Mr. Nikolic said -- what the profession allows, I don't think we should abuse the work of the Committee before the Assembly adopts the result it is. I wanted to take the floor for the next one -- just for those like the EFT and the companies that used the power system's failure, the lack of legal regulation, so they showed up. What we heard from Mr. Nikolic is demagogy. So, to avoid these companies and any mediators in that, any abuse, this is the way -- law, strategy, market, competition, and then there will be no more such firms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6054	If there's anything he can do about the microphone, you just can't hear it at the table, I don't know how much you can hear in the O.R. The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this day's principle discussion of the Energy Law proposal, I still get the impression that there's a really good bill ahead of us. There's been a lot of constructive discussions. They may lead us to think about a different concept in certain areas governed by the law, but all in all, it shows here that the adoption of one of these laws is inevitable not only because of entering Europe, but because of harmonising with energy behavior throughout the world. It is absolutely necessary to pass such a law, which is still indicative, systematic and which provides for the first time in this area the possibility to regulate all energy activities and to determine their interaction and relations, to talk about energy policy, the development strategy, which has not been regulated so far, to design or shape the electricity market, and to determine the behaviour of individual entities on it, which is a very important moment and I think that this discussion in that part of the principle debate which exclusively applied to the law has contributed. Normally, as is usually the case, the payphone also hears dissonant tones and different intonated messages, but I would refer only to some misunderstandings. I didn't even realize that the Serbian Radical Party had in principle something against the law that should regulate this area, but that it had objections in a fundamental way how to do so, but these other parliamentary groups have shown agreement with the concept we have applied. Of course, there are some differences in understanding about the organisation of energy subjects, since most of the law applies to the electricity sector, especially to electricity and electricity operators; there are certain differences or objections relating to energy agencies and energy efficiency, and energy efficiency such as coal. We have also heard certain tones related to privatisation, liberalisation, as well as energy efficiency of heat production and distribution. As far as coal is concerned, and here we have heard the most about it - why the law does not regulate the exploitation of coal, oil and gas, in fact this law does not originally process and regulate the exploitation of coal, oil and gas, it is the subject of the Mining and Geological Research Act. This does not mean, however, that the coal-produced companies for the purposes of the TE cannot be made up of an electricity company. The Agency for Energy Efficiency here is also mentioned in the context that the law suddenly introduces two agencies. Of course, the agency is just a name, a name, but these are essentially completely different organisational continents. One is a regulatory agency, an independent regulatory body and has the name of agencies, and someone calls it bigger (in Croatia); there may be another term, but we agreed that it will do one responsible job that requires this independence and it should enable the creation of a relationship on the energy market. The Agency for Energy Efficiency - if there is anything that should have been proud in this past period with us, these are exactly the results that have been achieved on energy efficiency programmes. The energy efficiency programme is also being forced into Europe, certain experts would not come here and no funds would be given to it and we would not learn how to behave in relation to rational use of energy ourselves. Energy efficiency, which is the problem with us, is located at the agency. As predicted earlier, the agency was an independent body. However, in accordance with our laws and in accordance with the solutions relating to businesses, we have been told and it has been noted that the legal agency for energy efficiency cannot operate as a public service, because these professional businesses it does have no character of public affairs. What is called the establishment of an agency and education agency is fully legally founded in laws and the Constitution. When the Agency's education is said to mean, and that's why it's only two to three members mentioned, that through this law it's set up as a single company and will do all the jobs that the current energy efficiency agency is doing. There is even, after all, agreement with the European Agency for Reconstruction, which partially finances the work of this agency. Finally, one of the essential dilemmas or remarks was in relation to the heat energy section. That's what we've been thinking about, and we've talked about it, we've been checking it out, and we've come to the conclusion, and we've agreed that the way we're dealing with the problem of production and distribution of heat is the only right way, so the way it's presented in this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the municipality, through its bodies, and in accordance with the law, regulates and implements the development of these municipal activities, provides for these municipal activities, and in particular the production and distribution of heat, so that it belongs to municipal activities and is regulated as a municipal activity. In the end, really, if all the malignancies that can be heard about this were avoided, I would just have to say, now I've remembered the issues of vertically organized enterprises. Vertically organized enterprises are a very efficient way of organising electricity companies and this is also represented in this bill of law. About 46,000 people are employed in the electricity sector, and through the final provisions it is suggested that the activity of electricity transmission and management is allocated to a special company covering about 1,500 people. So, the electricity industry stays as a whole and that's beyond doubt. And of course we're aware that electrical activity, as well as the oil and gas industry, is something that is vital to the survival and development of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6056	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic, then Zlatan Jovanovic, then MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the principle debate on this bill once again has shown how seriously the parliamentary group is preparing for the law and discussing each draft law. The SRS parliamentary group has reported 14 speakers on this agenda point, however, given that they were all extremely well prepared for this very important law, they have not all managed to come to order in the principle debate, so we will now have to through the discussion of the details that through the amendments submitted by the SRS to this law we explain to you what the concept of the SRS is and how we think this matter should be regulated. To Article 1. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft energy law was submitted by Mr Zoran Krasic and asked for Article 1 to be deleted as there is no justification for the formation of two new agencies in the SRS. The minister did not understand well when he said that the agency could call itself otherwise, that we could negotiate on the name and that the SRS is against the formation of agencies because it is about agencies. We are not against the formation of agencies because they are called agencies, but because the agencies will not bring Serbia's economy, nor Serbia's electricity, and especially Serbia's citizens. Also, the SRS is not satisfied with the explanation of the minister he gave for both the law and the formation of the agency itself, and I think this was one of the worst arguments we've ever had to hear. In fact, it's not enough to say that the law is reformable, because, Mr. Minister, I have to tell you, every law is reformable. I don't think there's a case yet recorded that someone passed a law that is identical to the law that already exists. Every new law that changes something, every law is reform and even the worst law, and this law is extremely bad, it can be called reform law. It's not enough that you told us that this law will surely take us to Europe. We've already listened to that, and we thought that some other laws were taking us to Europe, or at least that's what you were trying to convince us. Does this law take us to Europe mean you will not deliver generals, does that mean you will not deliver Ratko Mladic? You didn't have anything affirmative to say about this law, to say what good it would do the citizens, and that's what we're really interested in. In this law you predicted the formation of two agencies. One is the energy agency, the other is the energy efficiency agency. This time I must admit that you have really overcome yourself, even two agencies will be formed by this law. But I must warn you of the next item of the agenda, or the Ministry Act, that you have been denied a mistake. The amendments and additions of the Ministry Act are not intended to form agencies and we simply wonder how it is possible, why exactly the ministries not to get an agency, why don't we have a ministry agency, if those agencies bring so well to everyone. Then let's give the ministries at least one agency, so she doesn't get neglected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6058	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. I implore all MPs, according to Article 101 of Position 1 on the session of the National Assembly, to the President of the National Assembly. There is no need to interfere with the speaker and to get your own opinion on whether or not it's a topic. Please, allow the speakers to turn around.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6059	First, I have to speak to the minister briefly, to replicate the minister's presentation from a moment ago when he said there were a lot of objections because coal is not mentioned as energy in this law. No one asked or asked for coal exploitation to be processed in this law, it was an observation that coal is not mentioned as energy. We believe that Article 3 should have mentioned coal as energy, when it was explained and defined what energy is. So it was supposed to be coal, next to the energys that are listed in this law. Yesterday I said that coal is a significant energy, 70% of electricity is produced from coal and in the next three or four decades coal will certainly be the dominant energy in electricity production. Mr Krasic's amendment concerns Article 1 and the establishment of agencies by this law. We are, in principle, against agencies that have started with the existence since the arrival of DOS to power in 2001, first by regulations, and now this new government has moved on to establish agencies by law. Here, two agencies are formed, i.e. the first one is established as an energy agency, and the second one is educated, although it is a little unclear who educates the other. There's nothing more accurate about the law. It is likely that compared to the existing one, which had already been in place by the regulation a few years ago, some transformation is now being made to be educated as a special legal person, if I understood this law well. As far as this first agency is concerned, she's running errands entrusted to her by the Ministry of Energy. If these jobs are originally in the department's jurisdiction, the logical question is why isn't the Ministry doing them, why form a special agency, a special body, if these are the jobs that the ministry should do by law. The other thing that's controversial is the means and means of funding. Article 12 states that funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency shall be provided from revenue obtained from fees for the issue of licences, parts of the access tariff and use of the system and other revenues. So, the dominant revenues from issuing licences are both part of the tariff for access and use of the system. These revenues aren't permanent, they're not permanent. Whether these revenues will be sufficient to fund the agency, that there is, since the agency, besides the body managed by the agency (that is advice), has a number of employees who will have to receive some profits every month. And Article 14 states that the agency can, in order to do jobs more effectively, organise units in places outside its seat. This means that there remains the possibility that outside Belgrade, where the agency is based, the organisation units of the agency will be educated to carry out the agency's tasks. This means that we will have in some other cities and municipalities in Serbia some branches of the agency, where a number of employees will again be set to be financed from these same funds. I'm just asking if these assets, which aren't of a constant nature, will be enough for the agency to work? In addition to these funds, the agency can be financed from donations, except from donations from energy entities or from those entities linked to them. It also remains an opportunity for the agency to finance itself from donations of legal and physical persons. All these donations will affect the independence, objectivity and independence of the agency. The agency must not rely on donations and even think that if it wants to be independent in its work and objective, an impartial should not remain the possibility in the law that someone can help the agency with their donations. The agency, i.e. the council is responsible for the Serbian Parliament, and should submit a report once a year. However, there is no telling what is going on here unless the agreement of the Serbian Parliament is obtained on the agency's report. What in that case? What are the consequences? What happens if the Assembly does not give consent to a report submitted once a year by the Agency to the Assembly? Who will be responsible and what are the legal consequences of not adopting such a decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6060	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6061	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when they were building a government, this new DOS, and when they were vertically divided into actions and jobs, and they divided the ministries, they could be expected to form such forms as agencies to appear everywhere. G17 Plus formed an agency at the finance ministry, at the health ministry and in those agencies he hired his staff. The time has come for the DSS to form agencies and employ its personnel. Given that the DSS parliamentary group is the largest parliamentary group in the new DOS, they cannot with one agency and with this few ministries as far as they are concerned to meet all needs and therefore we can easily expect in each of the new laws, in any proposal from each ministry, if there is another ministry to win, to form two agencies, to settle. The SRS parliamentary group, or MP Zoran Krasic, has submitted an amendment to Article 1 where it says it is deleted in Article 1(2), which applies to these agencies. The government's opinion has been packed on barely two sides to explain how amendments to MP Zoran Krasic should not be accepted and how these agencies should be formed, because in addition to this requirement put before the Democratic Party, which I spoke about for a moment, wants to explain to us that the agency should exist on other grounds. It says: as regards the proposal contained in the above amendment - that the energy efficiency agency is not in fact educated, it is noted that this agency was educated by the Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (15/01, 16/01, 32/01, 64/01, 54/02, 91/03, 117/03, 130/03, 132/03, 23/04, etc.). Ever since you came to power. It is then that the greatest confusion begins, because, since 1972, I have been in energy and this energy has been very successful in doing business, in accordance with the law and respecting very strict standards. They didn't have agencies, and they didn't need agencies. The workers employed in NIS, EPS, so-called The state-owned companies have suffered the greatest burden precisely because of their work, since none of these workers had the opportunity and the right to take action in their company, because they are state-owned enterprises. Today we will break them apart, we will form agencies that will break them to the end, and today we will open the market, not only to Hamovic in the field of energy and various Hamovics and godmothers, but also to the area of the oil industry. It is increasingly evident that the national wealth that has been built for years and which has invaluable value will be torn apart and divided by the escapes found either in your parties or in your family ties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6062	Natasha Jovanovic, about the amendment? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6063	Mr. Markovic, you know that I don't mind any noise and halabuca, and here they are all at once calmed down, but let me tell you, a member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of order at the session directs you as chairman, if you don't have enough authority to secure peace in the hall, 200 and some member of the Rules of Procedure, I don't need everyone to know, you have the right and the opportunity to interrupt the session until peace and order is established. We have just heard here, and it was not only about the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who, to detail and reason yesterday and today, explained why this law should not be passed, but also about us other MPs, that we are doing nothing but writing amendments that require that some member be deleted. For those who did not want to understand the essence of our concept and the difference between us and what you intend to do, the point is to start with the first amendment, i.e. the first member and the second attitude, and from the demands of counterpart Krasic that this attitude be deleted and that there is no agency. Yesterday, we issued a position that is truly supported and will be seen in a later discussion of the details that the law is very confusing, that it creates a great basis for manipulation between suppliers, i.e. the buyer; vague relations, the role of the agency as such, and two agencies that are not only not (can't use this DSS term to use which is the manner of Mr Naumova – as defined by our legal system) are defined, as you would like to say, but has no foothold. So, as possible, as well as the lawyers of the SRS and all others who know our legal system, to transfer their powers to the Ministry of Energy - starting with Article 1 of the Agency, through Article 15 and so on - to a special company, or to an agency as such. You probably thought that what is in the explanation would be enough, read by other MPs, read by Zoran Krasic, and it is fortunate that he is not here today, because you would see, starting with all the laws on businesses that have been passed and all the amendments and additions, that it has nothing to do with the Company Law. So you thought it would be enough, to write an explanation on this one and a half side, and to be a unified position of you as a proposer, and to keep everyone else quiet and say, we're not going to report anymore, not in line with what the government is asking for and suggesting. Directive and regulations of the European Union and of the reasons... And you were the other night when you passed through the needle ears on a television set with a national frequency, and perhaps the owner of the television has pardoned you for some of your reasons not to go up there, said that this is not scary and that it takes an agency, a new way of managing electricity systems, and that we should be happy, you have already said several times, which is the price of electricity lower than in the countries around. I just don't know in which country, I don't know how electricity prices are moving in Albania, but it's certainly much more than in Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and that average is for those who use electricity as an opportunity to warm up their apartments and for citizens living with much less income than you people's 10 cents on average. So, you have to be aware that by setting up an agency, various lobbyists and godmothers, regardless of their godfather and family tree, you will have the opportunity to profit enormously, to gain a fantastic wealth, and that we MPs will bear witness to all this, that we, as a legislative body elected by the members of the agency, cannot influence it, because it will be on that people's "not a lipiac to green grass". By the time the report comes here, Hamovic, Lazarevic and all others who had one bow and one purse will be rich with tens of millions of euros. You laugh, in Kragujevac, the average debt for electricity is more than 20,000 dinars with various reprogrammes. It's funny to you again, laugh until they, these criminals, give you a spoon, run the agency, run the ministry, and you as a government. We don't want the directives, because you can say five thousand times that in other countries, you've given it in an explanation, even given a much greater impact from the European Union directive on their legal regulations than is the case with us. Not only are they not good at those directives you get, but it will clearly prove that you were wrong, and in the meantime, citizens will pay such a price for electricity while the mafia in our country is rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6064	Deputy president of the G17 plus Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6065	I suggest that we extend our working hours to the end of the debate on the last, or 11th, agenda, so that we may finish the debate, so that we can round this session as efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6066	I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 120, against five, six of the 131 MPs did not vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then... Thank you. You're giving up. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) Of course, I realize that the proposal has been accepted, that is clear. Please, one second, MP Jovicic, one moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6067	Dear President, fellow MPs, it is true that it stands in line with what is stated and what the predecessors have said, concerning the amendment to Article 1(2), but it is true that the same requirement is required for the provision of Articles 10 - 24 and 146 - 147, respectively, where the Members of this Law are required to be deleted. Essentially, and there's one clear definition... (President: just a moment. I ask the MPs to sit down and allow the MP to address the Assembly, otherwise I will be forced to interrupt the session and take a break. ) There is simply a legal basis in Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Section 4, where jobs can be entrusted to the organisation, and in this sense also to carry out certain professional tasks to improve energy efficiency and energy use and rational use of energy sources. Thus, in addition to the necessary harmonisation with EU and European Parliament directives, related to the same energy area and energy use, there is a clear legal basis for establishing agencies. I must say, however, the Republic Assembly is forming this agency and controlling its work, defining its finances, and that agency has to account for the Republic Assembly. So I don't see any reason to be afraid of any machinations. On the contrary, this law right now regulates all those gaps in regulations we've had so far through corporate laws that no government has ever held in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6068	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 81 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Item 1 states that the National Assembly meetings on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts brought by the National Assembly, in general and in particular, are to be held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in time from 10.00 to 18.00 hours with one hour interruption. Article 4 of the same article says that an extraordinary session of the National Assembly can be held on another day if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president of the National Assembly tells lawmakers when the session is decided to be held for other days. You responded to Ksenija Milivojevic's proposal for the Rules of Procedure, with no member of the Rules of Procedure mentioned and called for it, and made a proposal to extend the working time of the Assembly. There is no such authority anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. What you are empowered to do as President of the National Assembly of the Rules of Procedure is to determine that a session of the National Assembly can be held on another day, but if held on a different day than Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, it will only take place between 10.00 and 18:00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6070	I thank you for your interpretation. I'm obliged to give an explanation. There was no requirement to work another day. When the president calls on the Assembly to work the second day, as you know, every time he gives an explanation. Since there is no business opportunity for the president to do so in this case, the assembly voted, because no one called for the Rules of Procedure, but the assembly voted on something. If you are not satisfied with the explanation, I ask that the Parliament be made known in the day of voting on this matter. Thank you. Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6071	Mr. Markovic, don't ask you to let the Assembly know about this in the voting day, I can possibly ask for that, unless I'm satisfied with your explanation. Second, don't make me say that from the bench. It's known how an MP speaks. I have the right to go out for a pay phone and say whether or not I'm satisfied with your explanation. Your explanation in this particular case is not satisfied. I don't know if you listened to me very carefully. Maybe if you're not feeling well, you should set another break. I didn't even ask if anyone was looking or not to work on another day. I asked you - on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you put on the vote that the Assembly extends the work and after the time established by the Rules of Procedure, which I remind you is from 10.00 to 18.00 hours. There is no member of the Rules of Procedure on which you could put it to the vote. If there is, please tell me specifically - based on that and that member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6072	You can go back to the pay phone to say if you're satisfied or not satisfied, I've already asked you. Are you going to say you're not happy at the pay phone? Would you like the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day, so I don't ask? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6073	Mr. Markovic, you have now violated the dignity of the National Assembly. What is your job is to look after the application of this Rules of Procedure, not to mock this people and the MPs and the work of this people's congregation. Yours was to answer me - on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure Mrs. Ksenija Milivojevic was put to the vote? What you need to answer is and -- why were MPs who were nowhere in the debate in principle who didn't answer, who weren't doing their job here, after voting what they came for, acting like they were in the fire room and leaving the race in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6074	Mr. Sarovic, since you have called for Article 81 paragraphs 1 and 4, I have responded to you by these members. The second time you've asked for an additional explanation, I'll give it to you in the Rules of Procedure. You asked me what member? In accordance with Article 81(2), I can read it. It clearly states that the National Assembly decides on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly, in general and in particular, in voting days. Thank you. If you're not satisfied with the explanation, go ahead. Here's to the Rules of Procedure. We're not gonna work in the O.R. that way. Mr. Sarovic obviously is in the O.R., only forgot to respect the Rules of Procedure and insert the card. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: his card is in the parliamentary unit. ) In the meantime, it was corrected. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6075	Mr. Markovic, I have nothing of your apology. You should, as president of the National Assembly, first look at what you're talking about, make sure that my card is there, or not, and then you'll get it out. Mr. Markovic, you did not interpret the Rules of Procedure well. I think it is now clear why at the beginning of the formation of this call for parliament you should respect the democratic principles, which are recognised in the civilized world and that you should choose Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, who is a lawyer, who understands this Rules of Procedure much better and who could interpret it. Mr Markovicu, article 2 of Article 81, says - The National Assembly decides on draft laws, development plans, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, etc. Mr Markovic, our agenda is not now amended and supplemented by the Rules of Procedure, is not the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure. You have mixed the decision on proposals based on the Rules of Procedure and on the proposals of the Rules of Procedure. That's two different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6076	Thank you. Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6077	Mr. President of the National Assembly, you have injured the head of the IX Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the extraordinary National Assembly meeting. Since it came from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I would quote that head IX from Articles 162 to 165. Article 162: "The President of the National Assembly sends a request for an extraordinary meeting to the MPs and to the Government and determines the time when the National Assembly will meet. "Article 163(1), please listen carefully: "At an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly is working on the pre-established agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an emergency session. The order of consideration of the agenda points cannot be changed without the agreement of the proposing representative at whose request an emergency meeting is scheduled. "During the extraordinary session at the National Assembly, parliamentary questions can only be asked if the motion for an extraordinary session predicted it in its application. "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure for a regular sitting shall apply at an extraordinary meeting, if the provisions of this Chapter are not otherwise specified." Ms. Ksenija Milivojevic's proposal could not be considered at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as it was not foreseen in the agenda you proposed, the pre-established agenda for the extraordinary session. The National Assembly could not at an extraordinary session declare proposals that were not on the agenda. Even parliamentary issues have been mentioned that they cannot be considered Just laugh, democracy needs to be taught from cover to cover, not the way it suits you. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] So, Miss Milivojevic, you should have thanked and said, "Miss Milivojevic, you can't take that backpack and leave the room because we can't vote on your proposal, it's not scheduled for an emergency session for this session." That's how it's done in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6078	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic, I would like to thank MP Ksenija Milivojevic. Fortunately, as we have all been present, there is no agenda point proposed, no change of agenda, but extended time. Mr. Nikolic, are you satisfied with the clarification? Do you want the Assembly to declare that in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) I ask that this, as well as the previous breach of the Rules of Procedure, be declared in the day of voting by the Assembly. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6079	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, situations like this, as we now have in the National Assembly, have occurred in the past. There was also a decision to extend working hours, there were also decisions to shorten the debate on amendments. That's what one MP was doing. When I criticized him once after this pay phone why he was limiting our time for amendments when I never submitted the amendment, although there was an emergency and there was no TV transmission, he submitted one single amendment, then and never again. I don't want to mention his name. I would also ask you, as colleagues, if you have already made a decision to work until we are done, that whoever proposed that decision and who voted for that decision is sitting in this assembly, because it is not an emergency right now, you have a TV transmission, if you care at all about the public work of this assembly. This amendment, tabled by MP Zoran Krasic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, principally advocates the introduction of agencies. Members of the ruling majority in the past few months have often told the speaker that the government of the Republic of Serbia has abolished nine agencies set up by the regulation, that agencies are expensive, that they cannot be established by sublaws. 'From then on to the day you founded seven agencies, with this bill of law nine, as much as you have abolished. The thing is, you and one of these agencies shut down, just the energy efficiency agency. It means that that way of working the previous government had in policymaking remains now. So we'll have abuses again. There are stories that this law is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for two reasons. One is that the agencies are in line with the policy implemented by the EU and in order to join EU countries, and the other is that you will provide cheaper energy and a more stable market. However, how do you think you can justify yourself in front of Serbian citizens (no matter what the minister claims to pay one of the lowest electricity prices in relation to the countries in the environment) and explain to them that electricity is paid at an average of seven cents for the supplied kilowatt and you export electricity at 2.2 cents per kilowatt. Who's in this policy? The answer is known: it is Vuk Hamović, Vojin Lazarevic, EFT. This law was written by their energy efficiency agency, which you have abolished by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and now by this law you are re-establishing. It is likely that the electricity, which was exported later, was imported at seven cents and charged by seven cents to Serbian citizens to make someone rich for someone's account. And that difference in the price of domestic electricity sold to citizens was also to prepare infrastructure in the power grid. So, when this law comes into force, when agencies start working, simply, gentlemen have the complete infrastructure that you've restored with the money of Serbian citizens by scratching their skin with back prices of electricity they couldn't pay. By the way, one part of the money went to the speculators and the EFT, so they would have the initial capital to buy a license from this same agency, and the money is normally from the citizens of Serbia, who gained with these speculations. The attitude of the SRS is that with a law-shaped crime now needs to be terminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6080	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6081	The SRS parliamentary group is against the establishment of the agency for several reasons. First, only a formal or adventurous agency is responsible to the National Assembly, and there is no responsibility if you are responsible for the obligation once a year to report to the National Assembly on their work. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not report once a year. Why would the agency do that, a team before the president of the council and members of the council can't be resolved for not submitting a report. In the provisions governing their resolution, it is mentioned: that they hid some information while they were chosen, some connection with the criminal act, no mention of the relationship to the National Assembly. On the other hand, I find it very suspicious that the draft law recognises that the agency will not be financed by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which makes me think that the agency will be financed from abroad. It would be good if you provided pensions from abroad, you shouting "natural," not agency work. That would be good if you provided money to hire people, not to start agencies, but you still need a little time to figure out what this agency is. The agency also does trusted jobs. How is it that the state trusts someone with a job and someone's going to take on trusted jobs without being funded to do trusted jobs? I think those are points 4 and 6) of Article 15(1). What's the weirdest thing about that? After so many years in which we have electricity, a tariff buyer, an EPS, suddenly to our agency, Article 15(1) and (2), we give the right to establish tariff systems, a methodology for determining tariff elements, which means that the agency will redefine the tariff system and electricity prices. How long will you lead the country to play with electricity prices? Now that this has become a problem for the government of the Republic of Serbia, because people are calling both the president and the ministers because the current collects, which they can't calculate electricity, because they're reducing the tariff used by the poor -- a bonus from 600 kilowatts to 300, now you're transferring it to some agency. And when people justifiably say they can't pay an electricity bill, that it's no good in the tariff system, it's no longer the government's fault, it's the agency that fits the National Assembly for their work. The government is completely removed from responsibility for what happens to Serbian citizens in the supply of electricity and the determination of electricity prices for the tariff buyer, and, Serbian citizens, you are in that category of tariff buyers. That's why we don't want to form an agency. We want to know who in Serbia is responsible for supplying, consumption, methodology and determining the tariff system for paying spent electricity. In my opinion, it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia; however it looks, whoever put it together, the government should always stop and say, yes, we have determined how much you will pay for electricity. If citizens can pay her, they'll say good, and if they can't, the government will be in trouble. So -- the agency, president and four members of the council -- they're proposed by the government, elected by the National Assembly, accounted for by the National Assembly, not being financed by the budget, and no one is responsible for anything at all. The minister said himself -- well, they're not responding, the funds for them don't go out of the budget, they're going to provide some reconstruction agency. And what doesn't occur to you is that you're wondering -- how do we get financed by only agencies? Which doesn't finance some production, something where we could hire people, start working and live from our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6082	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Stevica Dejanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke of this law in principle, I pointed out that the SRS has a fundamental objection to the establishment of agencies. I will read from your explanation, where the Agency for Energy is mentioned, and it is said - according to its powers, the agencies are specific (meaning, you stress it yourself), because, according to this law, they will carry out certain tasks which are by their nature within the rights and duties of the state authorities. And then you name a wide range of rights that have an agency. These are: issuing licences for the performance of energy, decision-making by appeal, etc., it is even going to bring the tariff system and prescribe the use of the transmission, transport and distribution system. Our principled position is that the agency has too much authority. In principle, I did not talk about some of the details and shortcomings that exist in the law, I would mention the status of a qualified buyer in Article 3(1) point 11). I haven't been able to submit the amendment since they've been withdrawn early, so I have to expose it - which in their distribution area have an annual consumption of more than 20 million metres of cubic gas. I'll explain later why.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6084	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 3 was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6085	We've already said multiple times that in Article 3 in point 5, where energy is mentioned, coal is not entered as energy. If Article 80 writes - electricity producers, HE and TE etc., if we mention them, then it is logical to put coal under the term - energy also. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6086	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 4 with the correction was submitted by the MP of the People’s Republic of Radet. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6087	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People to Article 4. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft energy law was submitted by MP Verica Radeta. This amendment requires intervention in Article 4 by deleting in point (10) of Article 1. What's this about? The energy policy of the Republic of Serbia includes measures and activities undertaken to achieve long-term energy goals, especially points 1) to 10), and point 10 says decentralisation in planning and implementing development programmes in energy. In this area decentralisation is just a marketing move by the government and it is completely unclear what it is meant to mean - decentralisation, given that serious development programmes can and must only be conducted at the state level. Because if the energy development strategy of the Republic of Serbia sets out the long-term objectives of the development of certain energy activities, development priorities, sources and means of providing the necessary amounts of energy, i.e. energy-efficients, incentive measures for financial investment in energy installations, which will benefit from renewable energy sources, incentive measures to increase energy efficiency, etc., the question of what here can mean - decentralisation. What are the local authorities through which this decentralisation will be achieved in planning and implementing energy development programmes? Did you get lost in translation here, gentlemen? What's this about? This was inserted where he didn't belong. So, will local self-government units, for example? municipalities, local communities themselves set long-term goals for the development of energy activity, so let's say the Old Town Municipality will decide one, Vracar Municipality the fifth, the Indjija municipality the seventh, and each will go in its own direction to improve the energy system. What best tells us is how you predict further development of the electricity system and electricity in Serbia is a member of the 8th that says that the energy balance of the Republic of Serbia determines the annual energy needs, i.e. the energy required to provide for the orderly and continuous supply of consumers, while respecting the need for rational energy consumption. I would ask Mr. Minister, if by any chance he would return to this room, to answer the need for rational energy consumption. Who has such a need? This provision seems to have been prescribed from some communist manifesto in the 1950s or 1960s during a power shortage. What other serious state in the world is talking about rational energy consumption? I thought we were passing this law to improve electricity, increase the amount of electricity produced and finally ensure that those who consume more energy are stimulated (instead of punishing them), as they are stimulated in all normal countries and as stimulated by other goods, because, to remind you, electricity is as much like any other. It is normal for those who spend more than one quantity at a more favourable price, not for them to be limited, as in the 20th or XIX century, by the amount of energy, or by rationalising, to determine how much they can spend, and to punish themselves if they spend more than any agency or anyone in the government has decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6088	The word has a folk MP Zlatan Jovanovic, then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6089	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Radeta has submitted an amendment to Article 4 which only indicates the competences and powers given to the Autonomous province, the units of local self-government in the following members of this bill, in Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9. What's this about? Article 4 sets out the activities and measures that represent long-term targets in the field of energy, and, among other things, point 10) says that one of the long-term energy targets is decentralisation in planning and implementing energy development programmes. What that means, more specifically, is clear from Articles 6, 7 and 9. In fact, this law envisions the adoption of a strategy for energy development, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the government, and we expect it in some future period. Based on this strategy, the government of the Republic of Serbia, as defined by Article 6, will deliver a strategy and energy development programme for the Republic of Serbia. The programme shall be adopted for a period of six years. Autonomous province and units of local self-government will bring energy development plans in their territory, which will identify energy needs in their area and conditions and how to provide the necessary energy capacities in line with the strategy and programme. This is in the position of Article 7(1). I think, and the position of the SRS parliamentary group is that this is too much authority and jurisdiction for an autonomous province, especially for local self-government units. It's not just about the powers, it's about the ability or ability of these authorities to fulfill these tasks, or these obligations imposed upon them by this law. Do our municipalities have personnel who will be able to look at these problems and adequately respond to these demands, bring energy development plans in their area and deliver these plans to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I don't think our municipalities are capable of it, at least most of them aren't capable, and they don't need to be burdened, they have enough other obligations and jobs. What is even illogical here is Article 7, point 2, where it says that energy entities, at the request of the competent authorities of the Autonomous province and units of local self-government, are obliged to make data for the development plans to be delivered to the autonomous province and to the units of local self-government. Each municipality in Serbia will have the right under this law to ask, to require all energy operators, electricity producers, transmission systems, distributors, traders, etc. to provide her with the information she allegedly needs to draw up these plans. I can't just divide and spread around Serbia. Article 9 also speaks of an energy balance and again leaves the province with an autonomous obligation to propose part of the Republic's energy balance relating to an autonomous province, etc. It says here that an autonomous province proposes part of the energy balance, however, the logical question is - what if the government does not accept the proposal that comes from the autonomous province? Will there then be a conflict between representatives of the government of the autonomous province and the republican government? The government has rejected this amendment, and what is also strange to me in this explanation is that this obligation or jurisdiction left to the local self-government and autonomous province refers primarily to municipal energy activities, for which development and functioning are old local self-government. Now, this argument cannot be recommended to local self-government to deal only with heat, if it is entrusted with the law and given that it can also deal with electricity. The law should state that local self-government can't deal with electricity, it can only be heat energy, and not now we recommend - we've given you the opportunity, but don't do it, we'll do it, and you're only dealing with heat energy, because it's in your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6090	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian Radical Party MP Ms. Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment to Article 4th point (10) and suggested that the point be deleted. Point 10) in Article 4, says decentralisation in planning and implementing energy development programmes. Energy policy is being implemented through the realisation of the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, the implementation programme and the strategy and the energy balance. What does this point 10 mean? It means that part of the business, and very important jobs, will be transferred to local self-government, and I mean not only municipalities, but also local communities. From the area where I worked and know a few things, I was initiated to support this amendment by Mrs. Verice Radete and to ask you to vote in favour of this amendment in the day of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that in the 1980s, Serbia started to gas the settlement, so to speak. It's a wide-ranging waste. Until 2000, very strict regulations were in force in that segment, which provided the state as well as energy users, specifically natural oil gas. It should not have happened that a device called set-G4, for example for households up to 500 and some squares, should be untested and that set should not contain elements of fire protection. That means that when somewhere in the house at some part of the building cracks, the installation automatically closes by the valve. In 2000 just thanks to local self-government and agreement between those who decide on local self-government and those who build up these sets... In 1998. Germany has passed a law prohibiting the use of natural gas unless a set of fire valves is installed. In the year 2000, certain companies bought all these sets at waste in Germany, brought only paints and implants. In 1999, too, a law was passed that should have been regulated, however, since 2000 it has not been applied. I'm aware of several companies dealing with distribution, i.e. by installing these sets, which have brought the whole tow truckers. Local self-government must not be allowed to decide things that are of vital interest to the state. All of this has to stay in the state, in the ministry. The issue of forming an agency, which we will later on, is also a way of moving responsibility to someone lower and less responsible. The Ministry, more specifically the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the amendment of Ms Vjerica Radete, says the following – an amendment submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, to Article 4. The draft law is not accepted for reasons why strategic planning is carried out at the level of the Republic, as well as the implementation of that strategy, through programmes adopted by the competent ministry, and units of local self-government plan to develop energy activities in their development programmes that they adopt in accordance with the Constitution, and in the framework of these programmes they establish, or plan, the development of energy in their area. Ladies and gentlemen, spending planning, say, natural gas, is a strategic issue and must be determined at the level of the Republic. No local self-government, no major consumer, no local community can force its own programmes, its capacity to push into a distribution programme, i.e. a transporter, or public undertakings involved in these affairs. Gas pipelines have a certain volume and cannot do so. The self-will of certain local self-governments cannot be carried out on the burden of both the state and the businesses involved in this business, so before the companies that deal with this business were once, in the 70s and 80s, levers of development, locomotives of the development of Serbia's economy, and today they are literally reduced to a beggar stick. High-quality personnel in these companies are working for a lot less money than these selected personnel of yours you're going to hire in these agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6092	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6093	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry the minister isn't here because this government explanation doesn't satisfy me at all. In the sense that the minister does not stick to the essence of the matter at all but has the impression that he is devoting the amendments, ready in advance to accept none. However, it is not a matter of some SRS drop to intervene in this article because we do not like some decentralisation, but simply this point 10 itself, when I read the bill, that in the name of, say, one party must stand the word "democratic" in order to know that it is democratic. So here and here, we have to advocate some decentralisation, because someone told us that that's how it is, that it's a trend, and then in this area in energy policy we insist on decentralisation. So if we wanted to decentralised something then it doesn't stand like this, but specific tasks are delegated or trusted by individual organs. So, first formally, this is unacceptable, and then the termology itself is unacceptable, and the fact that it's simply impossible for planning to work this way will be very quickly understood by the Minister and the Ministry itself. Because I'm just asking one question: what happens if an autonomous province in accordance with Article 7 does not carry out its task, or within the time limit left, does not do what is to be done? Then what will the Ministry do about it? I have to say that in such important areas as energy or the electricity system, simply some things, at least as strategies, plans and programmes go, they have to be centralized. It would be quite a different story if, say, you predicted that the autonomous province and units of local self-government do not bring plans but suggest plans to the ministry. No one argues with them that they think about it, that they have their own vision of things, and then that the organ that is really qualified for it, which is a strategy itself, proposes a strategy to the Assembly. I say from experience, there are not even 3% of local self-government in Serbia that are capable of dealing with this problem, as you ask them. So, they can suggest, but make plans the way it is in accordance with this law, I'm sorry, but it's simply impossible. It's like the law really wrote someone who has no idea how our local self-government works, how trained they are. If that's supposed to be their jurisdiction, then it needs to be formulated by this law that defines their work, but I'm really getting the impression that it's an unfortunate copy of some foreign law that didn't know how our power system works and how our local self-government works. I even thought that it was that omnibus law on autonomous province, so you had to put this in the jurisdiction of the autonomous province. It's not that. I think it's just one oversight, and the problems will only arise when it turns out that neither local self-government nor autonomous provinces are ready or able to do this. That's why I once again urge the minister to deal with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6094	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6095	Dear colleagues, you are of course familiar with our principled position that we are against the agency, but this agency is specific to all other agencies that we have established so far, because its status is something different than, say, the status of those agencies that we had under the drug law, which have the position of public service. This agency is completely independent. It works under the Company Act. It has obligations and responsibilities for the means at its disposal, has the property of a legal person with the rights and obligations and responsibilities laid down in this law, laws and other regulations governing the business of an undertaking, as well as the statute of the Agency. The Agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state body. I potential this – independent of any state body, energy entities and users of their products and services. So, given everything that is listed in Article 15 as the work of this agency, and in particular point 2) - that the agency determines the methodology for determining the tariff elements for the calculation of electricity prices, to issue licences for the performance of energy activities, it decides by appeal to the act of the transmission, distribution system operator, we are inconceivable that the Ministry and Government, by means of this law, introduces the agency, practically say - my concern is to move on to another. Well, tomorrow, the citizens will no longer call either the Minister of Naumov or the Government of Serbia because they have a green, blue, red tariff, but there will be an agency there because it may have introduced some pink or who knows what tariff. So we are completely losing control of what methodology will continue to be used to determine the tariff elements. It's kind of coming out of the executive sphere. We've been able to keep as much as we can so far under the control of executive power, so when it gets to this point, we take down that power. The agency with this agency's advice really has great powers, and we can't even replace them because they're not doing well, but only for the law of precise reasons that are bizarre, so to speak. I don't know if you've been getting involved in whether this way and methodology is really the best, given our power system and our reality, or if you're just using, that's all. have listened to directives that already exist in writing, as Mr Tadic will listen to all the directives he receives orally now in the United States, so soon some of their special forces will come to arrest and capture Hague indictees across Serbia. But when it comes to directives, there is no obligation, so you can think whether or not it does you good or not, it is theirs to ask us, and it is ours to take care of what is in our interest or not. Mr. Naumov, I know very little about you, only what was written in your short biography when you were elected here as minister, but listening to your colleague, Mr. Dinkic, I wonder if what he claims is possible and whether this law is really the result of it, because he says that everyone is corrupt, only he, Labus and Kostunica are not. I'm surprised you other ministers didn't find yourself at all offended by that statement, and you have even room and grounds for a lawsuit; by keeping your mouth shut, we're wondering if there might be some truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6096	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic, then MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group on behalf of Article 10. The draft energy law was submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, asking that this member be deleted. This member is established by the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. And why is this agency set up? The agency is founded that Mr. Minister, who remains, although he has just entered the hall, does not listen to the MPs, and surely when this debate is over, he will say that they were constructive discussions, that he is pleased, but that he does not think of answering any asked question, or accepting any amendment. So the agency is founded that the ministry should not have to answer questions like this. The question is, gentlemen, where's the money? A few days ago, a protest was held, a strike by the Belgrade Power Distribution Workers, and they wondered, firstly, where the money was, and then who and what the citizens were paying. The EPS's business, according to strikers, has not allowed the signing of an individual collective contract for two years, the number of employees in the Elektro-distribution Belgrade has been reduced by 800 and the number of employees in the Directorate has increased by 600. The difference in the earnings of the Elektrodistribution Workers and the staff in the Directorate is 50%. And 800 employees in the directorate are tailoring the tariff system that "happily" our citizens. In the future, this tariff system, which is likely to make citizens equally happy and perhaps even more, will be tailored by the agency, and the government thinks that this way it washes its hands of responsibility both for the tariff system and for the price of electricity. "Great consumers owe the EPS two billion dinars. They're protected by the directorate, and they're forcing us to cut the power to the citizens for minimum debts. The work of the Commission for the examination of abuse, crime and corruption in the EPS shall not be permitted. The Belgrade Electricity Commission has filed eight criminal charges against those who have damaged the country by tens of millions of euros. We drove Uskokovic out to the cleaners, and why is the department silent? The non-responsibility, irresponsibility and non-business of the EPS summit is constantly covered by the collection of electricity. We ask the responsible, ministry and management of the EPS, what and who are the citizens paying for. "This is what the strikers asked, and this is what the citizens ask, and I have to tell the Minister - Mr. Minister, you can start not two, but 22 agencies, you will not be free of responsibility for both the tariff system and the supply and for the price that the citizens will have to pay for the electricity in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6098	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6099	I will continue where MP Sarovic stopped. Mr. Minister, not only will you not be able to rid yourself of all these responsibilities that Mr. Sarovic has spoken of, but you will not be able to free yourself of responsibility for what you, past you and behind you will do in these agencies or in similar agencies, related to companies with three letters, for the best men who own these companies and everything that happens in the future. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to Article 10 and asked for article 10 to be deleted. Article 10 regulates the issue of the establishment of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia as a regulatory body for the performance of businesses to improve and direct the development of the energy market on the principles of non-discrimination and effective competition, monitoring the application of regulations and so on. All in all, in response to Mr Krasic, the answers are the same for all the members seeking to delete the agency, it is said - The bill only laid down the minimum powers of the Energy Agency, compared to those provided for by the directives and those provided for by the regulations of the countries in the region that have already harmonised their legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if these are minimum powers, what will be the maximum authority of the agencies, what is it that agencies will still be able to do, absolutely irresponsible; and I very responsibly underline this - absolutely irresponsible, because they have no cap above which one they will answer to. The Agency is independent of the authorities. The only obligation of the agency is to hire hundreds and more workers who will be in those agencies, in addition to all other qualifications they seek, seek party legislation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to vote on this amendment in the voting day and try to make this law applicable together. While I am behind the pay phone, I ask Mr. Minister to really explain to me, about the notification where I am called – respected, so I told me that instead of 1,500 dinars, I would have to pay 1,900 dinars for electricity, as it is minimally, because they say, the collection will be minimal; as for me, it certainly is not, and it is not for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6100	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6101	So, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to delete article 10. It's about the agency again (I'll only rely on previous speakers, so I won't be overly long), so, according to all that's said, it's an independent body with huge powers. The powers are in all areas and this is beautifully written in the explanation of the Energy Agency in the draft law. I note that the Agency is specific, since, in accordance with this law, it will carry out certain tasks which, by their nature, are within the scope of the rights and duties of the national authorities. All the time it's been going through is she's taking over the affairs of state authorities, and then it's illogical why she exists. Also, if there is already, I will mention what I said in the principle debate, Article 17(2) says that the Council has a president and four members who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the fields of electricity, natural gas, oil and heat, should be envisaged and it should be precisely specified that the designated persons are from all energy sectors with equal representation of machine, technical and electric professions, legal and economic professions. Then it would make sense if there had to be an agency in any form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6102	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11. The bill on energy and asked for this member to be repaired in the best and only possible way, and that is to be deleted. As you've already heard, there's no excuse to form two more new agencies. The minister is wrong if he thinks he will manage to maintain control of the agency in this way, because I will remind him that the agency has a president and members of the council that are referred to the government's proposal, but that he will be able to make all the blame for the price of electricity, because of the way electricity is calculated, because of foreign companies that will interfere and break up what our citizens have been building and building for years. On the other hand, it is unclear that the Agency has a legal personality, with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by this law, laws and other regulations governing the business of the undertaking, as well as the statute of the Agency. Item 2 - Agency headquarters is in Belgrade. Article 3 says - the agency for its obligations corresponds to the means available. This wasn't brought all the way here. Is the agency a company? Is the agency a state authority? Will the agency be on its own or not? How is it possible for the agency to be at the same time a company that will have the rights and obligations under the Company Act to be fully independent of both the Assembly and the Government, while on the other hand carrying out entrusted tasks? I'll also remind you that it's not intended for the state to make any compensation for doing these entrusted jobs. The part of the trusted business is wide, the area it covers is extremely important, and then the question arises -- why this particular company, which company, whether or not another company should have been entrusted with this, perhaps we should have immediately entrusted these businesses to the EFT, to warn this debate and this extension of the debate and all the other problems we could have in the future. It is good that we have heard from some authorities, both this year and these previous years, that there have been abuses in the electricity system and that this law is also passed to prevent these abuses in the future. What's missing is sanctions. We heard it was wrong, we heard that there were abuses, we heard that some of them, thanks to the use of benefits both in the state of Serbia and in the electricity system of the Republic of Serbia, have benefited greatly, but, gentlemen, to hear what sanctions are provided for it. Is the adoption of this law to prevent abuse in the future or do those who have committed these abuses to the day of today and thus have gained great property benefits and allow them to benefit from this property through a free market that has been announced several months before this law came into the hands of MPs; what is the purpose of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6104	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6105	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has submitted an amendment to completely delete Article 11 where he says "The agency has the property of a legal person with rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by this law and other regulations governing the business of the company, as well as the statute of the agency. The agency's headquarters is in Belgrade. The Agency shall comply with the means at its disposal. "We were just talking about where they came from, who provided the funds and who they had a responsibility to. They're not according to the government. They're according to whoever's funding them. Just to take advantage of this amendment to say - if our citizens are to be satisfied, that is our goal, we need to predict the cheapest cost of energy for consumers. It is mainly about individual consumers, and this can be achieved by allowing natural gas distributors to be a qualified buyer, leading to competition and directly affecting a more favourable price of gas. There are many gaps in this law that you will not want to remove, but it does not prevent us from repeating ten times because of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6106	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Momir Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the first amendment to Article 1 asked for the Agency to be deleted from this law, so a good part of our amendments also relates to the work, work and business of the agencies. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment to Article 11 where he asked for article 11 to be deleted. Article 11 states: "The Agency has the property of a legal person with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by this law, laws and other regulations governing business, as well as the statute of the Agency. "It further says: "The agency's headquarters is in Belgrade. The Agency shall comply with the means at its disposal. " Whose resources will the agency have? What obligations and responsibilities will this take over, and from what state authority? I assume you meant the Ministry. What will the Ministry do if the agency takes a good deal of his work? Ministry employees will remain normal, and the agency will be filled with 200-300 new officials. On the other hand, when the DOS two or the Government are reassembled by the DOS, with the support of the SPS, why don't we form an agency for the formation of agencies, so that you from the ministries get rid of that ballast, that you don't have to come before every law to come and that for every law, SRS MPs tell you that forming an agency is absolutely unnecessary. If we equate the agency with the company, then we will come into a situation, as you say in the explanation you gave to MP Zoran Krasic, given that there is an answer on both sides to these questions that are being raised here, and it is said: "The regulation of these issues was in the light of the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" 25/00 and 25/02). "So, both the Official Messenger, both the one and the other the regulation, and one and the other the law in the period from when you are in power, you or those before, don't make a big difference, and I don't think the citizens of Serbia are making a big difference and that very soon, but in the first parliamentary elections, as far as February, the citizens of Serbia will be able to correct the mistake they made in 2000 and now, recently. What is left unsaid by this law and the functioning of the agency is that they are employees of public enterprises, and I mean EPS, NIS, and probably other public enterprises, deprived of one right that all other employees in Serbia, which is the right to a number of shares, according to the number of years spent at work. Only employees in public enterprises have no shares, because you said it was public enterprises, that the company was state-owned, regardless of whether 10, 20, 30 or 40 years of employment in these companies gave up part of the income and placed in pipelines, pipelines, products, power lines, network etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6108	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the first member of this law, you have foreseen and are proposing to form two agencies, both the Energy Agency and the Energy Efficiency Agency. We are against the formation of agencies, and we have commented on this in all our amendments and the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that there are no such agencies. The authorities provide these agencies with new jobs for their members and debtors they promised in previous election flows. These agencies employ only a small number of people. We are, as the Serbian Radical Party, for a system and strategy to employ new persons with this law and not to leave this law without the job of people who are already working in these companies who are in close contact with energy. We're sick of reform and law firing workers and workers and their families becoming social cases, these and such laws we've had enough. This law goes to the will of various lobbys that trade that energy. We presented this whole case to the public through the polling committee: who is where and who works for whom, but it is for those quasiexperts not enough, where they would work and go to harm themselves. On one show, the energy minister was unable to answer such and similar questions as the leader, but it was all funny to him. In the show, the minister said the law was an "atomic bomb" for all laws that were in public debate these days. Strange bombs. Let us hope that this bomb will one day be demonized, that it will not be thrown at innocent people, but someone will demonstrate it, and it will certainly be the Serbian Radical Party. The agencies proposed by this law should carry out all actions aimed at improving and directing the development of the energy market on the principles of non-discrimination and effective competition. This comment is far from real requirements for both consumers and producers of this energy. There's no excuse to form two agencies from the SRS' point of view. The concept of the Radio Diffusion Act is already recognised in the first article of the Energy Law proposal, resulting in the selection of advice on the same principle and with the same consequences as when it comes to broadcasting advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6110	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6111	Mr. Markovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just been 18 hours. I'm taking the opportunity to remind you that article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that meetings of the National Assembly are held between 10.00 and 1800 hours. Article 2 of the same article says the Assembly decides on draft laws, plans, etc., in general and in particular, in voting days. Article 3 says the president of the National Assembly determines voting days after the debate on all agenda points is concluded. So, Mr. Markovic, you have one more chance to avoid breaking the Rules of Procedure and to, in accordance with Article 28. Rules of Procedure, you're looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure. To avoid this unfortunate situation that you have brought us to by putting Ksenija Milivojevic to vote to extend the debate, although the debate on all points of the agenda has not been completed before, nor has the day for voting been set.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6112	I'm obliged to give an answer. The president of the assembly can't work past the decision. The National Assembly voted and decided to work until the end, I must respect that decision, of course, because the Constitution is older than the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you should accept the amendment submitted before the SRS by Mr Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 12, as it regulates the way the agency established by Article 1 of this law is financed. In fact, he's also legally-technically incorrect. You know, approximately, that when writing the text of the law, a member is regulated by importance, or by force. Article 12(1) states: "The funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency shall be provided out of the revenue obtained from the fees for the issue of licences, part of the tariff... "and so on, that I don't read to the end this attitude. This means that the agency will be established and will have some income, i.e. it should start to work before it has carried out certain activities. It reminds me that this agency is going to be something like "fat and purse" companies. In order for her to start working, she must have certain resources, and here it is prescribed that the funds be provided from her work. It makes sense for me to start working first. If we say that we are going to build a certain factory, we need to provide funds for its construction, and it can later, by its operation, by performing a registered activity, gain income from which it will settle its obligations and its later activities. Perhaps you could have turned here, that attitude 2 would be attitude one, and attitude one would be attitude two, because you are certainly planning to provide funding from donations; only those funds will be able to arrive at the expense of this agency before the funds from its regular activity. Once again, I must mention what our esteemed colleague Krasic mentioned very often from this pay phone - that cheese is free only on the mouse. All other places are paid, so there are likely to be certain obligations for this agency before it begins to work. This amendment submitted by Mr Vitomir Plužarevic is a good amendment and you should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6114	National MP Momir Markovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Government has explained why the amendment of MP Vitomir Plužarevic wrote - an amendment submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to Article 12. The bill, which reads as "Article 12 is deleted", is not accepted for reasons why no amendment of MP Zoran Krasic was accepted as a member of 1. It's a bill of law. That is why I will always have to go back to the government's insubstantial reasoning on the amendment to Article 1 and try to convince you to vote on this amendment and on any previous amendments, to at least put this law in order. Article 12. The bill reads: "The funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency shall be provided from the revenues made from the fees for the issue of licences... ", we come, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to another possibility that someone fat will earn, because if we're here, there will have to be either an agency or an agency, and you will certainly provide, a body that will provide licenses and so on,..." for the use of the system, as well as other revenues... "and normally a fat charge. "The agency can also make funds out of donations... "I wonder if Vuk Hamovic, Lazarevic and other Hamovici and Lazarevic will now give the agency fat donations so that the agency will not stand on its feet, and it is known that this is coming back, so they may not only enter the power system, but have already entered, and you can no longer drive them out of there, except to arrest them. It will enter both gas and oil and all energy systems. I don't just think about Vuk Hamovic, I mean all the godfathers there are. We come to article 13, where he says, "The Agency is an independent legal entity and it's functionally independent of any... "is very attached to Article 12 and to Mr. Plužarevic's amendment and therefore I have to read it, "... the state body, the energy entities and the users of their products... "So, the agency will be bigger and stronger than the ministry. And finally, by the Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Serbian Government ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", no. 15/01, 16/01, 32/01, 64/01, 29/02, 54/02, 91/03, 117/03, 130/03, 132/03, 23/04 and 51/04) you have abolished, ladies and gentlemen, the agencies. The jobs of these agencies have been transferred to the Ministry of Energy and Mining. Now I'm asking you - if they've been since 2001, i.e. In 2002 and 2003, when you started forming agencies, the ministries were able to do those jobs that the agencies were supposed to do, what is it, apart from some personal interest, that drives you now to form two or three agencies in each ministry?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6116	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6117	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you just one question and I'd like to ask you an answer. We've established a lot of agencies so far. You answer us - why have you decided on this occasion that this agency has no status or public service or public service? Why is it a company that is completely independent? Because, you see, we as a congregation can start a public enterprise, as we have established NIS in our time. We have that kind of control. Here we establish a company that is completely independent, has no public business status and everything that arises from it, has no public service status, and has authority as if it has public service status. For this reason, we have submitted these amendments, although you have mocked us, Mr President and some MPs, that all our amendments come down to asking for individual members to be deleted. We ask that only those members of the law relating to the agency be deleted, and for this very reason that I have now stated. Maybe we're mistaken, maybe we don't know enough, but you're here to explain it to us. In addition, I'm afraid that by setting up the agency, as you've imagined it, and by giving it the kind of authority as provided for in Article 15, you're violating the law on state administration. You see with your associates whether that's the case, because if it is, of course, there will be a way for this law to be challenged once it's passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6118	Thank you. National MP Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6119	In any case, given the principles of explanations given in the interpretation of the amendments submitted, they normally deserve a principled answer, so they say - as in paragraph 1, then to list all possible official messengers and their numbers, in order to get out, and in what period. It's simple, October 5th, it's been and gone. The changes have begun and this is part of the changes that relate to social change, to the reorganization of society. So it's just a little bit of a riot for those who want to put the story back. That is the basic reason why it is so not clear and why, at first glance, I must repeat, almost no government has ever respected the Company Act until the end. There is no need to repeat that in 1996 a reorganisation, reconstruction, modernisation of the EPS and NIS was adopted, and that this was never brought to the fullest extent, nor was it brought to life, yet related to the Company and Obligations Act. So we're trying to introduce order, the way it's already around us, done with electrical systems, and then we just have to identify ourselves and be compatible with them. Of course, what the practice has brought - all possible abuses, whether numerous or not, will prove those services and state bodies that will deal with it, and the Assembly is here to adopt laws and take care of them. So, of course, that eradicating all these members, as required by individual MPs, along with the arguments they give, leads to the disenfranchisement of the entire law, and then that is not what must be done, not because it is some bogeyman but social change must end. It's simple, it's a transition and we're where we are, and I'm sure this will bring a much better and more organized power supply. And constantly chasing the energy agency and regulatory agencies in previous speakers can cause confusion. Once we call for the professional powers that these agencies have, the second time we call for their funding, and basically behind it is a concern for control. If the Serbian Parliament is not wise enough to elect the Serbian government and the Serbian government is not wise enough to elect a ministry, and these two agencies are in line with the Ministry of Energy and Mining... The only regulatory agency is directly formed by the Republic Assembly, not by the Energy Agency, as has been said from this speaker so far. So there's the key. And why does it bother someone that the funding of the regulatory agency will be neither from budget funds nor from donations from connected persons who can participate in the production and supply of electricity. There is just one possibility of corrupting, and of course, it is this agency that is the key account of this assembly that will be chosen and changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6120	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The government and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very sorry that Mrs. Verica Radeta's MP is not here, she would best explain this amendment and I suppose she would convince you to accept the amendment in the voting day. She has submitted an amendment to Article 13 and requests that the member be deleted. The government gave the same explanation as before, so I'm wondering now, answer to this question... And Article 13 reads: "The Agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state body, energy entities and users of their products and services, as well as of all other legal and natural persons". Item 2: "The Agency is independent in the taking of organisational and other activities which ensure the implementation of the law of established operations". We're coming into a situation to say by law that the agency will be absolutely independent and independent of anyone and will not have a hat, and it's normal for her to have a hat as a Ministry. I am going back to this question - if you already have a regulation in all those official papers from 2001 to 2004, you have regulated that agencies are being deleted and that jobs are being entrusted to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and now the Ministry of Energy, why now the agencies are being formed to which you will have absolutely no influence. Serbia will be in a position for the energy mafia to rule both the agency and the energy systems, and for God's sake the ministry. In the end, another question about that notice I got yesterday. It says- for customers who regularly pay the bills the discount is 5% and the discount of 30% on spent electricity for those whose monthly income per household member does not exceed a certain amount is provided and will be charged in social work centres. So, you spend the energy you spend, you cross those 300 kilowatts, you charge you the Power distribution, and you wait for a year at the social work centers, two to get your 30% off. I'd like the minister to explain how.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6122	MP Sreto Peric. Once again, I would like to ask all MPs who are calling for a word, but today, several times, the Rules of Procedure have been quoted on my part and by Mr Nikolic, when an extraordinary session has no parliamentary questions, and when we talk about amendments, we are only talking about amendments, we stick to the subject, we respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 13 has been submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, and he is quite good and should be accepted, of course, by this previous amendment. Let me just say, one of my fellow MPs said that the government is choosing ministers, or Parliament is choosing the government, the government is choosing ministers; no, but the Assembly should choose ministers as well. He further said that this law would lose meaning if some of these amendments were accepted and certain members of the bill were deleted. I don't think so, and I'll try to convince you on the basis of article 179. The bill, where it is said that until the agency begins its work, the Ministry of Energy will carry out the work. The Ministry of Energy exists and can carry out these tasks perfectly. Why did the People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, propose such an amendment? She proposed for a reason if Article 12 were to pass, if Mr Vitomir Plužarevic's amendment to Article 12 was not accepted, so he happens to pass as such a bill, given that the agency is not independent. It will be independent of the MPs, of the National Assembly and of the Government, but will be dependent on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For her support and funding, they'll have to pay a lot more bills than they've ever done before. It will certainly depend on its donors, those who will provide funds for the start of its operation and for its work until they arrive from licenses, from other activities and from increased accounts of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6124	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6125	Mr. Markovicu, ladies and gentlemen, specific and clear questions have been raised regarding the energy law, and I assume Minister Naumov has prepared to answer us. We're already with the 13th members, and several times SRS MPs, not about what time it is outside, because we don't see it from this atmosphere here, or about something else, ask Minister Naumov where the foundation is in our positive legal regulations to form an agency. He's applied to the Company Act. The Law on State Administration has been called upon, giving the exact same explanation, Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, as explained in the bill. Is it prescribed in the EU directive, but I am telling you that it is absolutely the same terms, the same sentence with the same order of words was used by Minister Milosavljevic when he explained the need for the agency to exist when it comes to medicines and medical means. Secondly, as MP Peric said, the issue of the agency's independence is raised; how it can be independent as a legal entity when it is being set up, that is, for its work and for the part-time business that will carry out the necessary funding. I believe you will not understand the seriousness of Mr. Plužarevic's amendments when he spoke of the funds concerning Article 12, which is attached to this article 13 and when he spoke of donations. I must remind you, Mr. Naumov, that you were already, as a member of the DSS, in some Kobajaga opposition when this assembly passed one law, or counter-guarantee when it came to remounting our power plants, a very unfavourable loan from the German bank to remont EPS, two years ago, and that then your MP group allegedly raised a voice against it. Do you now want from the position of the Minister of Mining and Energy to tell Serbian citizens that the agency, or people who will handle it, will enter such risky arrangements. When I say risky, I mean risky for Serbian citizens, who will have to pay all of this over high and already unsustainable electricity prices. It is not about anyone's indignation, nor wrong interpretation, but a concrete answer that is asked of you on the question asked by MPs Peric, Momir Markovic and Mrs Pop-Lazic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6126	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very meaningful amendment because this is just one declaration, especially the position of Article 13, which reads: "The Agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state authority... "When you read this formulation you think it's really about something that's acceptable, how it should be with us in Serbia, but if you know how the president and members of the council are elected, and if you know how they can be resolved, then you also find out that the agency is not at all independent of the state authority, or that it is not independent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government proposes to the National Assembly to elect the president and members of the council, the government proposes to the National Assembly to resolve them; a government that has a majority in the National Assembly. Be careful when they can be resolved -- when the government finds out they don't work properly, although they are functionally independent of any state authority. If the Government finds, under Article 24(6), that the candidate has refused or failed without a reasonable reason to perform the duties of the President, or a member of the Council for a period of at least three months; if it is found that, during the duration of the term of office, he has violated the rules of conflict of interest established by law; if a member of the Council does not act as a member of the Council, on a reasoned proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly may relieve the President or a member of the Council. No one else can solve them. You don't like some member of the Anti-Corruption Council, Radio-Difusion Council or the Energy Agency, and you say she's not doing her job, within three months, the government is proposing to the National Assembly to be resolved, and most in the National Assembly are listening to the government she chose, because if she didn't listen, it would turn out that the government doesn't trust the majority. In accordance with Article 13, it is completely impossible for the agency to be independent in its work by any state authority, including the Government. It is as if you were to say that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is independent of the Prime Minister in his work, because he is elected by the National Assembly, only because he was proposed by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister. That's what you're doing here. An seemingly independent agency, and proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. People's MPs here just... Members of the majority, because I don't think the opposition MPs will ever vote for the agency. For those five members, there will certainly never be, as you have never allowed them to be from the opposition. Most people have to obey their government, because the government claims to do the best it can. It's a shame for most MPs not to listen to the government. These are the rules of the game and I totally understand you, but then you can't write that agency is independent of its functioning by the state authority. It depends on the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is enough for the minister to say at the cabinet session – the president of the agency's council is not doing as we agreed, to propose to the National Assembly to be resolved because he is not doing his job properly for three months, and he will be resolved here. One who is not responsible to the state authority cannot be resolved on a proposal from the state authority. Why did you not provide that the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Justice or the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly should propose a decision to the National Assembly by the President of the Council or a member of the Council. Then it would be acceptable for that agency to be independent in its work by the state authority. When a state authority suggests that someone be resolved in, you say, a completely independent legal entity, then he's from that state body and how dependent and then he'll be careful to do what that state body asks him to do, not as he writes, or as the National Assembly might want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6128	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 13. The draft energy law was submitted by Verica Radeta, an MP from the SRS parliamentary group; Article 13 is required to be deleted. This Article of the Law provides that the Agency is an independent legal entity, functionally independent of any state body, and that it is independent in the taking of organisational and other activities which provide for the implementation of the law of established transactions. Even three times in two sentences, you reiterated that the agency is independent, although Articles 17, 24 and other members of this law can be seen in the clearest way that this agency will not be independent, that it will certainly not be functionally independent from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then the question arises why did you write it three times in two sentences, what is it that makes you three times repeat something that you're sure isn't what it says here. What makes you gentlemen repeat that the agency is independent, that you convince citizens as well as yourself, that, gentlemen, is your unclean conscience. You know very well that this agency, as well as any other agency you have hastily founded in the previous days and weeks, will not be independent, but not only will it not be independent of state authorities, because being dependent on the government, we will change both the government and the agency, it is a much bigger problem that you determine here that it will not be independent of any other legal or physical person. Is there any other state body prescribed by law to be dependent on some legal or physical persons? I guess that's what that means. I suppose it is understood that the agency will not depend on your godfathers or their businesses. It's a similar thing in Article 12 where you say how the Agency's working resources are provided and you say that, in addition to the revenues it itself collects from license fees, the access tariffs and the use of the system, which will be self-determined and for which it will be responsible, but also not known to whom, the agency can make donations, except from donations of energy entities or with those entities connected. I ask you, then, who else, other than energy or energy-related entities, would be interested in making any donations to this agency? Does this agency do any humanitarian work? What kind of work is he doing? Who will be interested, who has nothing to do with energy subjects and who doesn't want to influence the agency's work in this way, who, for what reason, will be interested in giving the agency any donation? It is clear to everyone that the only ones who will be interested in giving donations to the agency will be these very energy entities, as it is clear that although this, unfortunately only formally, prohibits Article 13, will be dependent on both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other legal entities, which is the worst of natural persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6130	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should accept the amendment to Article 14 because, if it remains a Article 14 in the form in which it is proposed, the dispersion of the agency will take place in all municipalities, units of local self-government in Serbia, and from Article 15, in which the tasks carried out by the agency are taxed, I see no reason for the agency to establish organisational units in places outside its headquarters, meaning, in places outside Belgrade. I assume the agency's headquarters will be in Belgrade. What does that mean, say, in Knic municipality, is whether the energy agency's organisational unit will determine the tariff system, whether there might be one tariff system in Knic and another in another municipality. Or perhaps there will be an inspector in every municipality, a former inspector of steam boilers, you called it for work, as I can see, from all of these on, from points 1) to 7), who will do work in the municipality of Knic, Lapovo, Batocina, Rač, Topola, in the municipality of Kragujevac, not to turn out to be neglecting small municipalities. I don't see why there should be organisational units outside the agency's headquarters and in the town of Kragujevac. Imagine 150 municipalities, at least three employees, that's nice for a party that wants to host some of its personnel, but Serbia has no use for any of that, no job for 365 days in that agency's organisation unit outside the agency's headquarters. So I suggest you accept the amendment to Article 14, because if we have once settled on the story that the Privatisation Agency should have organisational units outside the seat, so you have in every municipality an office with two or three who, to God, are engaged in privatisation, and only take money from the budget for their salaries, here I really don't see any excuse that the Energy Agency is setting up its own organisational units.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6132	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic for the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the 14th Amendment, MP Branislav Blazic has submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and this amendment is required to delete Article 14. Why? Article 14 gives authority to the Agency that, in order to be more efficient in carrying out operations within its jurisdiction, it may organise operations from its work cycle through organisational units in places outside its seat. But the question arises whether these organisational units will be established in just one of Serbia's municipalities. Perhaps that very organisational unit will be founded in London. We know that the leaders of some energy entities live there, which is why they are famous for Mr Hamovic and Lazarevic. Because the agencies designated by Article 15 don't bring in anything that could be done in these units outside the seat. We've heard that they're certainly not going to bring in tariff systems, that they're not going to determine, that's to determine the methodology, and the question is, why do we need this? This Article 14 can be linked to Article 17, which says the agency is managed by the Agency's council, and the next position says that the Council has a president and four members who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of energy and other areas of importance for the performance of the Agency's tasks. Article 17 does not determine any closer criteria on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia will determine who is a prominent energy expert and propose such experts to elect members of the Council to the Republic of Serbia. If we consider our previous experience, the question is whether these gentlemen from London, such as Vuk Hamovic, will be elected members of the council. Maybe this way, through Article 14, they want to cut the costs they can have, because why they should call from London Belgrade and the agency's headquarters and make big phone bills, why they should occasionally come to the headquarters of the agency in Belgrade and give orders, when it is much better to form an organisational unit in London and to provide these gentlemen in this way. When we talk about prominent energy experts, the question is whether there is someone in Serbia today who is more prominent in energy than Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. The gentlemen got rich, they made tens of millions of euros, is there anyone more qualified than them?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6134	Anyone else want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not have much to comment on about this amendment, as the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, gave a detailed and quality explanation and Mr Nemanja Sarovic also gave a good explanation for this amendment. However, I would just like to remind you that a similar proposal was in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, where you also predicted that the advice could be formed (it seems to me that this article was also formulated) in local self-government, or in other places outside the Agency's headquarters. Since you have made a decision earlier, or congregational majority have made a decision to change that part, it can be deleted here. I don't think the law would lose anything to quality, and this is really superfluous, and this is one of the reasons why the principled SRS MPs don't accept the formation of agencies, because it leaves the possibility of opening up more subages later or some outposts or wards, and then we'd have a situation where the agencies don't take anything like mushrooms after the rain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6136	The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Branislav Blazic has submitted an amendment to delete article 14, and Article 14 is short, so I will read it, but I will only pull the parallel with another member. "The agency can, in order to be more efficient in carrying out the tasks of its jurisdiction, organise the conduct of operations from its work cycle through organisational units in places outside its seat. The organisation outside the Agency's seat shall be decided by the Agency's council in a manner and under the conditions laid down in the Statute." So, in order not to repeat what I said about the agency's advice, if it wasn't precise enough who was on the council, here in Article 49(4), says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister, can be designated by a special act by another energy entity. When we talk about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have found that this is about the same as the Ministry, and since the Ministry is the same as the Agency, it can determine other energy entities, but no longer than six months, who have been licensed to carry out the same energy activity in an area where energy activity has been carried out by an energy operator who has been permanently deprived of a licence. So, this is one proposal that should amend the current position 4 in Article 49, to bring closer and better arrangements to the details of the entity's selection, the way in which the energy entity's work has been taken away from its work license. It's important because every distribution is someone else's property. It is not possible to place other people's assets under custody for a long or permanent time, but it must be possible for the network owner to choose the distributor himself. It's an objection I wanted to make as an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6138	Thank you. National MP Momir Markovic, on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since it is evident that the ministry's ministers and officials are not interested in the amendments, because I see that they are not here, the MPs of the SRS say this to the citizens of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia, to realize that this is another of the fierce frauds, which will directly reflect on their pockets. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted an amendment requesting that Article 14. The bill is deleted. Article 14 reads - the agency may, in order to be more efficient in carrying out tasks under its jurisdiction, organise the conduct of operations from its work, through organisational units in places outside its seat. The organisation of operations outside the Agency’s seat shall be decided by the Council, etc. Only now do we see that the Democratic Party of Serbia will make up for all the things that were taken away by others through the vertical division of the ministries, so it formed agencies and thus hired its party members. This will solve the problem of the unemployed presidents of municipal committees and all others from their municipal boards, in all municipalities across the country. Because in all municipalities, they're going to form the organization units of this agency and there's no telling how many people are going to be employed in these organisational areas. It is clear from this that even in this division of ministries, vertical divisions, where each has grabbed its own piece of cake, the DSnalazi way to hire, to provide financial activists throughout Serbia. We hope that this will not reflect much, but I ask the citizens of Serbia not to really hope, because you will see in the next members that this agency will also determine tariffs, that someone else will pay for all of this instead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6140	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I remind Members who have not heard, each amendment is read, but I repeat, for all amendments, the Government has given an opinion. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6141	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Energy, entitled above Article 10, provides for the establishment of an Energy Agency and members from 10 to 24. The draft law defines the establishment, status, business and management of the agency. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, on the 15th of this bill, I have submitted an amendment requesting that this member be deleted. First, by letter above article 146. The bill provides for the existence of an energy efficiency agency, which also has a legal personality as a special organisation, so that we have two agencies with descriptively different competences, but also with those that are identical or similar, which is unnecessary, irrational and excessive. Secondly, the energy agency, which we in the SRS parliamentary group are asking not to be envisaged, has too much authority. Third, the provisions of Articles 148 to 158. The draft law provides for the existence of inspection supervision within the Ministry of Mining and Energy, which could also be done with the competences of both agencies, so that they are within the competent Ministry of Mining and Energy. This is how the Energy Agency, for which, on behalf of the Members of the SRS, is asked to be deleted, Article 15 provides too many opportunities in relation to the business of the adoption of the tariff system and the establishment of tariff elements for the calculation of electricity prices, then setting the costs of connections to the transmission system, issuing licences for the performance of energy activities, withdrawal of licences, decision-making by appeal, etc. This makes the agency a estranged centre of power and decision-making in the field of energy without real control, although it should be responsible for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the influence of foreign factors in energy companies that will enter our electricity system. Given that after the adoption of the bill, there is a breakdown, decommissioning and sale of a complete energy system with the inevitable consequences of an increase in the electricity price anyway, the layoff of workers, it is estimated that there are around 22,000, and the closure of the coal mine, as well as everything else that happens after these main consequences of the adoption and application of such a law on energy, by predicting the agency here someone wants to legalise the extra-institutional impact of individual informal groups. Now there's no agency, but there's an EFT, with a godfather's clan and a number of people in power. There will probably be agencies following the adoption of this bill, but the main word will continue to be led by the godfather's lobby gathered around the EFTA and "Interface". The next period plans to replace about three million electric numbers with digital ones, which is about 150 - 200m euros. There are already indications that you plan to give this job to a foreign supplier, i.e. a producer, perhaps a "Simens" instead of a domestic producer, for production and export to the market of domestic digital numbers. In the end, Mr. Minister isn't here. Given that you are calling for reason for international standards in a large number of draft laws, it is not clear to us in the SRS parliamentary group why in resolving this very important issue for the Republic of Serbia, the issues of our electricity system, do not apply the EU directive of 16 July, which is revised by EU policies and attitudes in this area, where there is no longer a demand to break down single businesses in production, transmission, distribution of electricity, as well as in the privatisation of their parts, but only to create conditions for the free energy market. That would prevent the disaster of our energy system... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... as France, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands did, and unfortunately, Bulgaria and Romania did not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6142	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Momir Markovic, for the same amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6143	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the parliamentary majority has the opportunity, in one way or another, to secure most of the vote, because Mr. Minister apologized this morning and, normally, those to whom this apology was sent, made 126 cards in MPs' units and decided to work longer tonight, we, the MPs of the SRS, do not speak to the ruling majority, how-so-so-restrained, tell the citizens of Serbia, that the citizens of Serbia finally know who, in which way and how they are yelling and who will continue to shout them. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to delete Article 15 from the law. Article 15 reads: "The Agency is carrying out the following tasks: 1) brings tariff systems for the calculation of electricity... "I have to stop here and tell the citizens of Serbia that they will no longer be able to pay for tariff systems and criticise the Ministry of Energy, those who receive wages and who, by the logic of things, should be able to run energy policy in this country, but will be able to criticise and swear some agency that is impersonal, which no one will see, but their actions, actions and other agencies will feel fat. Point 2) states - establishes a methodology for the determination of tariff elements for the calculation of electricity and natural gas prices. This is a confirmation of what I just said. In point 3, it says: "determins criteria and how to determine the costs of connections to the transmission, transport and distribution system". This means that when this law comes into force and the agency is formed, and we have just said how huge the body will be, because in each of the municipalities, at least a few employees, plus this in Belgrade, will decide on the price of the connection, for example, on natural gas. Today, the natural gas connection is around 1000-1100 euros, depending on the location, I speak for households. Count, Serbian citizens, at that price, and the cost of maintaining and supporting this agency, especially those that will determine your tariff and price, will then be your price of the connection. Of course, in every cubic of spent gas you'll have to count, in addition to the tax that's great, and the cost of living and the work of these parasites that the Ministry of Energy calls agencies. The Agency shall give its consent to the rules on the operation of the system, the issue of a licence. Right through the licenses, the agency will be able to take the fat money. It will no longer be taken into account, as by 1999 strict compliance with all regulations was strictly taken into account, starting with fire extinguishers and so on. It's not about who gets the license, it's about who gives a good donation to the agency, and the agency has to live on something. By the way, the salaries in all these agencies will at least three times exceed the salaries of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6144	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Once again, please, in order to maintain order, according to Article 101(1), so as not to introduce a disturbance. So, the Assembly is working with a decision of 131 MPs. All MPs are equal and cannot be against the Constitution. So, most of them are 126 MPs and so on. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 18. The draft energy law, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment. The draft law provides for the existence of two agencies: the Energy Agency and the Energy Efficiency Agency. Obviously, it's too high to have two agencies in this bill. The Energy Agency, according to us in the SRS parliamentary group, has really too much power. Both agencies, as well as the inspection service, can be part of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, because this is how the agency, which I ask to delete, becomes an alienated power center in energy. Such solutions in the law allow individual people from the energy lobby to institutionally control this resort, in conjunction with individuals from the previous and current regime, and thus to poverty the poor and so poor Serbia. For all this, I find it justified to accept the amendments that I have submitted to Article 18. Proposal for a law on energy. No matter what in the contested provisions of Article 18. The bill provides that the president and members of the agency's board, on a proposal from the Serbian government, chooses the National Assembly, do not trust your good intentions, because the energy lobby is powerful and many people in your government suffer its influence. Indeed, there is no justification for the formation of two new agencies, because, from the SRS' point of view, the concept of the Broadcasting Law is recognised already in the first Article of the Energy Law proposal, resulting in the choice of advice by the same principle and with the same consequences as it was in this assembly with a broadcasting council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6146	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6147	The amendment was submitted in accordance with the amendments to this proposed law, by the SRS. We propose to delete Article 21 relating to the regulation of work and the functions of the council. He may, following the rejection of the amendment to Article 1 proposed by MP Zoran Krasic, be too high, if it were not for some logic to be managed by the SRS when proposing these amendments, and that logic speaks, among other things, and from the reasoning we heard from the Registrar Minister. On behalf of the promoter, the minister said that we have a power producer, a power consumer, and this law regulates who will essentially deal with electricity sales, which means who will mediate between producers and consumers. Of course, there's between the distributor and the transmission system. We are slightly unfounded by this reasoning of the bill, which is said to be due to integration into the European system. Why? For the simple reason I cannot believe that the minister, who is a professional person in this area, did not stress that we are long ago in this common system that works in Eastern European countries, so if you want and beyond, in the entire European energy system, and in the case of distribution, trade and production itself. What happens if we, as precisely as in Article 21, regulate the way we control the council, but what happens if on the market, which is numbered by several million households, although we cannot boast about the economy which is the user of the energy, the customers who are going to go with so-called cheap energy appear. dumping prices, which in any case will not be the result of some market conditions. Looking at how this law regulates it, that the most favourable for the buyer will be the one offering cheaper, we will forget about the one producing electricity, whether it be hydro or thermoelectrics or producers of some other power plants. We have a good example of Hungary. Every time we talk about going to Europe, at a large door, we cite examples of Slovenia and Hungary. Here's an example of Hungary, where the whole market was flooded with products, and among other things by energy, which at that time, almost a year, were below all prices, means most favourable, that after a year or a certain time the Hungarian state would face one harsh reality, that all production capacities were literally out of use. If you want an example of Slovenia, then you should also point out what Slovenia has done, as a positive example. All of her systems, which she had before she entered the European Union, were preserved as unique systems, no matter what condition they were in, even when it comes to energy systems. After all, if nothing else, ordinary Serbian citizens can see from the means of information that a fierce battle and a dispute over Krško's nuclear power is being fought. Not because it's political motives or something, but because they're economic motives. And, Slovenia wants to have its united energy system when it comes to producers, regardless of the energy produced there at one point was more expensive than energy on the European market. But in this way she preserved her production system and entered the European Union with such a unique production system. And we're doing something here that can come back on our heads. When it comes to energy and the need for energy, these systems can fail, and all of this can be explained with a goal -- we join Europe, respecting market conditions, by taking cheaper ones. The seller doesn't care what condition our production systems are in. He's only interested in what's basic, his only goal is his benefit. Therefore, we must take care of it. It would be good to adopt, if not entirely that at least partially, the amendment of the SRS to Article 1 of this Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6148	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Milorad Mircic has submitted an amendment to article 21. Both Article 21 and all these members in front of him, or any amendments relating to members in front of him, refer to the agency, and we ask that the agency, as one parasitic body to be set up by this law, should you not adopt the amendments, be deleted. The government's reply is the same as the answers so far, i.e. the amendment is not accepted for reasons why no amendment of MP Zoran Krasic was accepted as a member. Article 21 reads: "The president and members of the Agency's work council and for their work respond to the National Assembly and report on the work of the Agency at least once a year. The report referred to in Article 1 shall contain, in particular, a report on financial operations verified by an independent auditor and a financial plan for the following year. "This Article 21 can be linked to Article 22, which follows: "The financial plan determines the total revenues and expenditures of the Agency, including the reserves for unforeseen expenditure, as well as the elements for determining the cost of earnings". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Serbia must know what this burden will be to them through kilowatts, through a normal cubic meter, through a kilojoule, if they use thermal energy, because agencies will decide how much longer they will have to pay, in addition to all those taxes and taxes that you have charged to their necks for these four years. Serbian citizens must know where their border of patience is and when they will finally stop supporting one government that produces parasite organisations one after another. The capital investment ministry has formed its own agency, home to all its members. If you join New Serbia today, you'll be busy tomorrow, if you're not. G17 plus also through these two or three agencies subdued all of their own, because they didn't have many members, so it was easier for them. However, the DSS, which has 53 MPs, probably still has an electoral body, has its activists, and it is normal for them to seek to repay themselves in this way to their activists and to arrest them, to reconcile them. I can only point out the Zemun municipality, where the DSS in a coalition with some other parties rules -- they fired 130 and some employees they found, filled in those 130 seats, and 280 new employees. What happens when the agency places their exposure in the municipality of Zemun? Well, they won't have people to hire.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6150	Replica, MP Dusan Prorokovic. Please, this is an exhibition, a parliamentary group has been called, it is the fundamental right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6151	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, you've really gone too far now. You did not measure your value to the DSS because you hired a juvenile son, Vojislav Seselj, for your term of office in the municipality of Zemun. We will not be measured and directed towards you, but according to another system of values, and this system of values is that the ministries do general jobs, professional jobs, and that some special organisations take over other executive, or executive tasks. This has proved to be more efficient and cheaper everywhere. I don't see why it wouldn't be in Serbia. Also, these special organizations, called those agencies, seduced, instituted, are eventually depoliticalized. I'm not saying everything here is gonna be great and wonderful and that these agencies will be depolitized immediately. It will take several iterations, several election cycles to make these agencies exclusively professional bodies, which in a professional and efficient way will do their job without political interference. In Serbian legislation, they have long been known and, as we qualify them today, special organisations. Serbia, I remind you, was one of the first four European states to have their institutes for measures and precious metals. And then, in Serbia, they didn't want to set up that kind of work either in the Ministry of Science or in the Ministry of Education and Education, but they set up a special organisation. Serbia has values. Serbia has a tradition in this regard. Of course, for 50 years it's taken us away from those values and that tradition of ours. Europe has gone far in those 50 years. Today, we are slowly starting to catch up with these laws, changing the system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6152	Mr. Markovic, be nice, maybe I'll say what you want me to say. It's happened a few times today, and I'm not gonna tolerate it anymore. I will not tolerate it under Article 102 if the facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons are presented. And it's very clear. Names and family relations have been mentioned, and that's the highlight of what's going on this afternoon. First, one MP demanded that the parliament's decisions be disregarded, and then another asked for a change in the constitutional system under which the parliament controls the government, asking for the government to control the assembly. Finally, it was asked by the speaker of the assembly to be elected one-third of the vote, instead of two-thirds of the vote, as elected. Let's get serious about the dignity of the Assembly. By the way, they're diaries now. There's no reason to bring up unpleasantness, ugly words, to mix up private lives, to mention people and their families. Let's concentrate and do the energy law. I hope you're giving up on the Rules of Procedure. It's okay. I thank you all. National MP Momir Markovic, on behalf of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6153	Mr. Prophetovich misunderstood me and misread me. To clarify this dilemma between my discussion and Mr. Prophetovic's words, I must say a few words. First, at the moment the Serbian radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6154	Article 97?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6155	The moment the Serbian Radicals took over the Zemun Municipality opened many jobs and it was normal for new jobs to be opened and new jobs to be hired. For example, in a company where I was the director, the Earth newspaper that went out once a week...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6156	I'm sorry, please, and it concerns you not to bring out data from your personal life, as well as from other people's lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6157	In the company Business Space, more specifically the ZIPS, not to mention myself, the "Emmunical News" came out once a week, publishing produced 70 and some titles, TV production had one week of hours; the removal of local communities in the jurisdiction of the company passed 14 local markets, five local water pipelines and 14 local cemeterys. It was normal to expand the need for new employment and it was normal to employ new employment. As for our president's son, Dr. Vojislav Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6158	Mr. Markovic, I have warned all MPs, and it concerns you. If I give another warning, it'll be a distance measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6159	... He was employed in accordance with the law and therefore there were no legal violations, and I ask that Mr. Prophetovic, before he comes out and criticises the rule of the SRS in the Municipality of Zemun, be questioned which of his members was paid the wedding by the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6160	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6161	The idea of MP Veroljub Arsic is simply to delete the agency in this form by deleting Article 22. I understand the above-mentioned explanation and historical reference to the basis of the existence of such institutions or organizations as the agency, but we must now be very careful and careful. It's not about the potential for the foundation of the existence of this kind of organization. It is that it is very sensitive for this country that this agency can in fact make, as this member said, a financial plan, or report that will be attached to the Assembly. In our end case, it would be better if the Ministry had a basic idea that the agency was doing these jobs, that there was one agency at the state level that would deal with the purchase and sale of energy, not like this. I speak in a broader sense and a context of the foundation of the existence of the agency. The point here is that through the agency the license is given to those who will buy and sell electricity to Serbian citizens, and this member of the law is obliged to submit a financial report, and we limit how much resources can be available, what are the costs, how many revenues. This has no purpose if we are aware that there is a potential danger in forming such an organisation or an institution. You, gentlemen, can resent us with Serbian radicals, calling for some moments in the past, how we have done it or how we haven't, but no matter how much you present the arguments that are founded or not, as something that is a political marketing has just been made, you must acknowledge that all our objections to earlier laws are in the form of amendments, and that time has been confirmed as correct. We now tell you from our best intentions what should be changed. You keep refusing, not because what the SRS is proposing is logical or not, and in most cases the amendments are justified and logical, but because you have a majority. Remember, and past power had a majority, but it didn't last long. What's going on today is the result of the majority's decisions. These reform, pro-European laws and today have major consequences for Serbian citizens. We are just asking you to accept the amendments, don't say no and don't go out for this pay phone that, defending such an unfounded law, you are withdrawing arguments such as personal life or the previous work of some SRS officials. After all, if there are grounds for non-intelligence, then the standard is widely known in Serbia and among Serbian citizens. We're talking about ethlons at some other time, and now we're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6162	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Stevica Dedjanski, then MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6163	The amendment by MP Veroljub Arsic requires that Article 22 be deleted, where total expenditure and agency revenues are said to be determined, including reserves for unforeseen expenditure. The total expenditure cannot be higher than the costs... And I'm going to quote another sentence -- if the Agency's annual revenue and expenditure accounts determine that the total revenues of the agency are greater than the total expenditure achieved, the difference of funds is transferred to the financial plan, etc. for next year. There's only one question -- what if the expenditures are higher, how can we know in advance the exact revenues of that agency, since I see that here for the next year the amount of income is aligned with the real costs of the agency, by the end of October of the current year for the following year. Also, I'm glad the DSS MP just agreed with us that it would be a political body, so we came to why we've been yelling at the D.A. all the time. I heard him say he wasn't going to be at first, but one day he might get up, and then maybe that day, that agency should be introduced. In another situation, it may occur, since, for example, Article 118 in point 2 gives the energy operator the opportunity to perform all energy activities, to give everything to the energy entity. As the European Regulation is mentioned, one energy entity cannot be given the possibility to carry out all energy activities, meaning transport, storage, distribution of natural gas. We are just talking about a European regulation that first requires that the monopoly position of energy subjects be disabled. We're going to allow that political body called the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6164	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be clear right now, I don't see any real reason for this kind of anxiety at the parliamentary club of the ruling majority. You wanted us to continue...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6166	Mr. Markovic, I have warned that we will not talk about private life or about qualities, and in particular we will not speak about inaccuracies. Please, don't get nervous, don't get upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6167	I'm not talking, Mr. President, about private life, but about this piece of work in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6168	Be kind, the subject is an amendment. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6169	It is normal for MPs who have submitted the amendments to be expected to defend them. It is normal for a parliamentary group to try to reason with another parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6170	I'm warning you next time. It is not normal for anyone to reason, all MPs in the congregation are reasonable. Do not insult the Messengers. Continue to explain the amendment to those to whom the amendment is not clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6171	The SRS parliamentary group, more specifically MP Veroljub Arsic, has submitted an amendment to Article 22 and is demanding that Article 22 be deleted. We have seen that part of the agency will be financed from donations, although one of the previous members said that donations cannot be from those directly connected; therefore, the agency will not be able to get a donation directly from Vuk Hamovic, but it will be possible, through the godfather or godfather of that money, to join the agency fund again, and that is the obligation of the agency to make certain discounts possible. The second part, which is much more important for Serbian citizens, concerns budget financing. All the time we're talking about how many employees in this agency will be and how much costs will be, and if the agency has the right to tariff then it will also be able to set the price of kilowatt hour, meter of cubic, and other energy, and it will also remove the skin from the back of Serbian citizens. That's what we've been talking about all along, more and more burdens on the citizens of Serbia, and their wallets are getting thinner. I hope that the parliamentary elections will be very soon and that you too will be a slightly uglier past of this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6172	Mr. Markovic, this "you" was about MPs or...? (Momir Markovic, from the post: It was addressed to the government. I have no intention of interpreting, clearly asking. Two warnings you received, as the previous speaker received two warnings. Anyone else want a word on the previous amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 23 says that article 23 is deleted. Article 23 reads: "The Agency is obliged to ensure the public in the work and availability of information to interested entities with a business or other legal interest, which, under the law or statute of the Agency, do not have a character of confidentiality". I stress - interested entities, not energy entities. I will return to Article 16 where the Agency is said to be obliged, in accordance with the law and other regulations, to keep the confidentiality of commercial and other confidential business data provided to it in order to carry out its tasks under its jurisdiction. The legislator should be defined either for secrecy or for the public of the information available to the Agency. Why this member is just as defined in Item 2 which says that the agency is obliged to publish an act under Article 15(1), (2), (3) and (7) of this law in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, interested citizens may be informed of the extent to which the tariff systems for the calculation of electricity and natural gas are; what is the methodology for determining the tariff elements; what are the criteria and method of determining the costs of the connections to the transmission, transport and distribution of energy; which is the minimum annual energy consumption that achieves the status of a qualified buyer. What is the trap of Article 23 that I have submitted to the amendment? In that the official messenger does not publish the activities of the agency referred to in points 4), 5) and 6. Serbian citizens, as well as other authorities in the Republic of Serbia, cannot be informed, at point 4 of the issue of a license to carry out energy activities and who is the one who has the licence, cannot be informed of who and why the licence has been withdrawn. According to point 5, they cannot know who has received compliance with the rules on the operation of the system, they cannot know the rules on the operation of the energy market and the rules on labour for the storage of natural gas. Under point 6 also, Serbian citizens cannot know what the agency's decisions are on appeal for the act of transmission, transport, or distribution system operators to refuse access. So we can't know who the agency refused access to or why. This is why members of 16 and 23 are in full collegiation, as Article 23 guarantees the public in the work and availability of information, and Article 16 guarantees secrecy. The bottom line is that Article 15 sets out exactly what the data is which is secret to the agency, and what are the data that citizens may possibly know. Since the last notices I came up with were completely blocked by Paracino's highway, that buses are coming in from Bor to block and loop in Pojatama, their demands, the demands of miners Bor and Majdanpek, Mr. Minister, are to see you there. (President: Mr. Rankic, I'm sure they're not protesting the amendment. Go back to the amendment. I'll be right back on the amendment. Mr. Minister, do you have the nerve to go to the Paracian loop?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6174	Be kind, the payphone is used for the amendment, and ask, don't say that, people, please. Here's a word from the People's Parliament, Milorad Mircic, on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6175	Mr. Chairman, I have the understanding that fatigue and this exhausting work also has a bearing on you who sit and listen to the explanations and presentations of MPs from this pay phone, but in order for a man to be witty must have a natural talent, so that humor is not involved when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6176	So, you too are being warned not to talk about the private life of the MPs. I have already warned several MPs from the ruling coalition and from the opposition, it applies to you, and we are working on the Rules of Procedure. The law is the same for everyone. Be kind, stick to the amendment, that's the subject. Here, I'll give you your time and don't comment on your private life, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6177	I accept your advice, but why are you angry and not taking my advice?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6178	For the second time, I'm warning you. Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6179	What is the essence of this amendment to Ambassador Rankic is that in this part of Article 23, which regulates the secrecy or the public of the Agency's work, clearly defines what is contained in Articles 15 and 16 of this Law, what is secret and what is public. If Article 15 provides in seven points that these are the Agency's obligations, we are warning you that for the sake of caution and former experience, it would be good for all of these points or almost all of the points of Article 15 to be available to the public, and here is why. The definition in Article 23 of this Law is exactly the same, when it comes to work, functioning and the public or the secrecy of the Agency's work, as well as in the Privatisation Act. Almost the same definition is contained in the Privatisation Act in a member relating to the Agency. Look what's been going on lately, and it's about the work of the Privatisation Agency, and the details and details are presented by her director. If you are a part of the work and functioning of this agency or its competence advertised for a secret, and in order to keep some data confidential, then I am telling you in advance, with great certainty, that this very definition, this sentence, literally, will be the basis for manipulation in the functioning of not only the agency, but the entire system. Just remember, gentlemen, how many spears were broken around the so-called so-called. Business secrets that were one broad term. You can imagine how much confusion or abuse will cause all of this that is classified as confidential or some degree of confidentiality, and it is contained in points 4), 5) and 6). And, if you are already talking about European integration, about openness to Europe, then why and in this way make it impossible for the information on the work and functioning of the agency to be available to all Serbian citizens, especially in that part that is important for Serbia's citizens' standards, work and life. There's no reason, you know exactly what a business secret is in an energy system. That's what matters to the state. If it's business policy, and especially where bidding is, where participation is, where market conditions are, why would it be confidential, why wouldn't it be available to the public? Because we see now that in the privatisation process under the auspices of the confidentiality and secrecy of many companies are privatised, and that the public, or interested persons, have no right to exercise their insight; it has even gone so far that the director of the agency has no right to control without the permission of any other or third party. For this reason, we are telling you to define clearly; if the points in Article 15 are taxed, then one of us could remain within this definition of confidentiality, and all others must be available to the public and give insight to everyone who is interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6180	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24 of Article 3 to delete "a" after the words "choose" and add the words "or for other crimes". In fact, the idea was to tighten the conditions for selecting the president and members of the agency's council, and not to make this a limit at the end, which is in the bill, to be up to six months, but to be for any crime. For that reason, I think Mr. Markovic of the SRS was wrong when he said, commenting on article 14 on the organisation of jobs outside the agency's headquarters, that the DSS makes places for its members. That is not true, because according to some coalition agreement, or agreement, it holds the place in Serbia's Elektroprivred, and it does very much. I've said it a few times, and so much about that cohabitation, so it's clear to the public that it's more like a habitat than a cohabitation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6182	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. Since the Government and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 43 follows the amendments submitted before him by the MPs of the SRS and provides for the erasure of all that certain members of this law binds to the Agency, to the advice. I know what you're suggesting, and I'll explain it. So, predicts erasing that member. With this amendment, we continue what we have imagined as our concept, by correcting this law, to offer citizens and it seems clear to me that almost every legal project you have entrusted to the National Assembly is predicting the establishment of an agency, because it is the only way for the government to function. These agencies, you're actually covering up your bad relationships within the government itself, because we don't have one, but three governments and each other don't get involved in the business. One government in which you, too, Mr. Minister, are the government made up of DSS MPs, the other is the DS government with ministers from G17 plus, the third government is Bogoljub Karic with his ministers. We also have government guards in the summer period. As long as they will be guardians, we shall see. The SRS as the only opposition party criticises such a way of exercising power. The amendment tries to pass a law that will be law not up to the first next power, but a law that will take a long time and be applicable. This law, as you have imagined, is not applicable and is impossible to implement in practice, precisely because you are in law trying to insert something that would isolate you from other ministries. It is quite clear that you have a bad relationship with each other, and in this way you are trying to implement a certain legal project. I suggest you accept not only this one, but the other amendments to the SRS, in order to bring the law into acceptable form.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6184	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic, and Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Minister - if an analysis or projection has been made in the Ministry, how many qualified electricity buyers will be when this law comes into force, or what kind of energy they will use...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6186	Mr Jovanovic, I repeat this four times today, both the parliamentary groups and myself, no parliamentary questions from the pay phone unless they are foreseen. Be kind, you're talking about the amendment, and of course the minister is at your disposal in the debate. And now we're talking about amendments. Be kind, explain Mr Glisic's amendment, respect the dignity of every MP here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6187	Mr. President, this is a question I'm asking in this discussion about this law and amendment. I guess it makes perfect sense to ask questions to the minister. That's why he's here, to answer those questions, and that's why we're sent to the Serbian Parliament. The parliamentary questions will be asked by the Rules of Procedure in other ways and in other terms, either by written means or verbally. I ask the question concerning this amendment and this law and I want, if the minister wants to answer that question, just to clarify the questions that are unclear to us MPs, specifically regarding this law at this moment. I'm interested in whether a projection is done, how many qualified customers will be, how much energy will be spent over one year and when this law is applied, since this law will divide the current EPS into two public enterprises, one for energy transfer and the other that will include producers, distributors, traders and I don't know who. I'm interested in the situation, and I want to contribute to some possible situation being more practical now and trying to warn. Since a qualified buyer has the ability to negotiate energy supply with anyone, he does not have to deal with that public enterprise created by the EPS by this law, what will happen if a qualified buyer finds cheaper energy in Romania, Greece or elsewhere, and a public energy transfer company under government control does not want to carry out a transfer service? He may not want to because there's another public company under government control, and there's a producer who has excess energy, and he wants to place his energy, but his energy is expensive for a qualified buyer to provide cheaper energy elsewhere. I think that this situation is real and I want to point to it, to see if you've thought about it and how you'll make sure of such situations tomorrow when this law applies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6188	Thank you. I have to read it, seeing as some MPs are not clear. Article 99 says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I'm just calling for the law to be respected, but I also welcome the minister's willingness to grant your private request, so let's not use the pay phone. Please explain to the messenger what he wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6189	This amendment really has nothing to do with the question, but I can say that the number of qualified customers, since the envisaged start-up quota, which we have provided for this law on annual electricity consumption, which one entity has to use to qualify, is about 12%. So with this quota given, we open, if all of them were to be defined not for the EPS, but to go to another buyer, 12% of the existing quantities needed on an annual basis. If that quota was reduced, not to be 25 gigawatts a year, but to be 10, that depends on our industrial development and our economy, it would increase to 16%. What I'm saying is that later at the agency, according to the work that this agency is doing, the agency essentially assesses and determines those quotas. So it's not cemented and depends on the situation, on the needs and decisions of the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6190	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and then the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6191	Mr. President, you are incessantly hurting article 100. I find you insulting my dignity, since I understand what you want to do with it. I allow the other MPs not to feel hurt because they don't understand what you're doing. Imagine, you direct, or order the Members of the People to make all their discussions known so that they do not ask any questions, that they do not have a questionable sentence in the interpretation of the amendments. I'm listening until I'm bored. Whenever a member of the SRS debates in a questionable tone, you say, Mr. People's Parliament, parliamentary questions are asked at the second session. Do you think we're that stupid? About how stupid he must be, there's no judge in the O.R. I don't know in all of Serbia if there is a man who can judge how stupid he is, but at least you MPs don't dare judge that. He's a fool who doesn't see what you're doing, Mr. President. Imagine that you are now ordering what should appear to be a sentence that the MPs say when they explain the amendment. And if he says, "Do you think this is good?" And you say, "Stop, Mr. Messenger, MP questions are being asked at another session?" It doesn't make sense. Hold on a second. First of all, you have no right to interrupt the Members of Parliament, except in the cases provided for by the Rules of Procedure, not when you wish. I know it's almost whatever right now, but Bucky won't dare say it's parliamentary questions. Please, Mr. President, bear with what is now going on in the National Assembly, this is a democratic, parliamentary debate, there are MPs waiting for this to end, there are MPs who want to do the job they're here for today, so it's going to end, just don't get involved in it. You only control if anyone offends, whether they use expressions that are not suitable here. You can get involved in whether or not the MP is talking about the subject. I don't recommend that, because almost no one here adheres to the subject whenever they want to. Don't humiliate us any more, insult us, and comment on each of our sentences by asking if a sentence is questionable, so if it's questionable, it's a parliamentary question. That's very transparent. Let me give you some advice. A democratically-oriented president of the National Assembly can be the most popular political figure in Serbia. You had a chance, for a time you pretended to belong to such an orientation, but now you've exposed yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6192	I'm sorry I can't take the advice that I respect part of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't respect part of it. It is clear that Article 99, which I have called upon in the only two cases; God forbid whenever MPs have spoken questionably, is a natural way of speaking, but in two cases when they directly sought answers to questions that do not concern the agenda, of course, that I have interrupted. Because article 99 says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Article 2 says: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech," exactly what we are present at. I am sorry, it is not in the interest of popularity, it is a responsibility to work in the Rules of Procedure and it will be done in all parts of the Rules of Procedure, not on advice to respect only one part of the Rules of Procedure. I thank all MPs who help, and there are from all parties. We're continuing the discussion. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Stevica Dedjanski called.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6193	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. I'd like to comment on him. He's asking that member to be deleted. There are other reasons, except for those brought out by the MP. In Article 43 of this Act, it is required that special accounting be conducted for each energy activity, so, for example, that member in a college with Article 135, because it is unnatural to allow someone to be a transporter, and a distributor, and a natural gas storage plant, without leading separate bookkeeping, because it is being transferred from one part to another, making it possible to obtain a monopoly position on the energy market even more recently explained how. Also, there are great possibilities for other manipulations with domestic natural gas. From this brief explanation, you should definitely delete Article 43 and maybe Article 135, so I'd like to ask you to look at those two members again, see if I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6194	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to Article 58. Since the Government and the Committee on Industry have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6195	Mr. Angelkovic, it's a good thing you came here, the president acted like he had an electric shock. It's a little funny, but also sad about the democratic principles in this assembly. Mr. Minister, as far as Article 67 is concerned, you saw that the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, asked for Article 4 to be deleted because of the fact that the tariff system, as it is today in Serbia, affects a wide layer of our population. The fact is, especially these latest changes in the tariff system and the decrease in the number of kilowatts in the so-called so-called so-called so-called. Blue zones, from earlier 600 kilowatt hours to 300. Then the introduction of a night tariff, i.e. cheaper spending only in the night hours during DOS rule, large claims by the EPS towards citizens, are said to be around 16 billion dinars. I told you that, it's quite reliable data, in Kragujevac, that average is about 20,000 dinars for the population, and for the economy and bigger. There are households that, not because of their carelessness, but because of the lack of money for existence, no incomes, unrealized incomes, have even a debt of 150-200 thousand dinars. The most drastic example of this is the city of Nis. You know, even for a while this certain gentleman was also Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, he urged citizens to come to a place where electricity bills were publicly burned, to do so, to invite them to civil disobedience and people did so. Now, when we go to the city of Nis, when we visit on one of the local televisions or we meet with citizens, their questions are – what should we do, because the bills for unmistakable electricity are 200 or 300,000 dinars, with all the interest charged. So such a tariff system is, above all, Mr Naumov, in direct contrast to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there cannot be any discrimination against our citizens, in any form whatsoever. The elemental right to electricity and water must be given to all citizens. That's how it is in one town, like Kragujevac, and all of Serbia today is a valley of famine. Because going to a very visited rally held by Mr Tomislav Nikolic throughout Serbia, we have seen that such misery and poverty is everywhere, we have seen that citizens either bring us astronomical accounts, which they do not understand, for electricity or sections of their poor and poor pensions. When it comes to electricity bills, explain to an ordinary resident in any city in Serbia, who does not understand it and is not his that he has to enter all these manipulations, into the occipital games of electricity distribution, what an engaged force is, as it flows from one zone to another, and how the theft of Serbian citizens is done. On just one occasion, for a single household, which we can say is thriftful, for example, in the town of Kragujevac, in the accounting period for January and February of the month, is subsequently in local electricity distribution, i.e. Electroschumadija-Kragujevac, found that through this household, through the tariff system that we are asking for this amendment to be abolished, as it is, through various manipulations, through the accounting of the engaged power, through the astronomical price of electricity, which has been 10 times increased over the past few years, the electroschumadium has abolished, no less than almost 10,000 dinars. What will those citizens who don't know who and how to complain, do, how to pay such high electricity prices? What should those citizens in Serbia do, and you obviously approve of it and watch it silently, and you have approved it as a resolution minister, who is punished for spending little. So they're lucky they don't have to use electricity for their warm bodies. These are people who belong to the category of the smallest consumers. Instead of being able to continue to use up to 600 kilowatt hours, in that most favourable area, that tariff, which I'm telling you again, contrary to the Constitution, is reduced to 300 kilowatt hours. (Chairman): Time. We can now expect that in all of Serbia, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, all home appliances will work from 12 hours to later in the night, and thus will be lived by citizens of Serbia. Mr. Angelkovic, I'm finishing up, I just want to tell the Minister that the resolution ministry with its recommendation and that future agency should consider this fact and that we are, as far as we are concerned, in a situation that we cannot help the citizens, i.e. this government is obviously incompetent to do so. It is not a reform course that you will establish such a tariff system, but a way to ensure that people have a job, work, and then ensure that they pay such a high price for electricity and abolish such a tariff system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6196	Thank you. MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6197	National MP Ms. Natasa Jovanovic asked that Article 67 of Article 4 be deleted with its amendment. This position in Article 67 reads: "The tariff system can determine different tariff positions, depending on the amount and type of energy taken over, the strength and other characteristics of energy taken over, seasonal and daily dynamics, deliveries, places of takeover and method of measurement". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Europe, where we've all been seeking, and where you've been leading us for four years now, and we're getting further from Europe, a little bit different from this issue is being regulated. In Europe, major consumers are stimulated to spend more, and to make it worth the while through the margin to both distributors and those who have built gas, electricity, thermal systems. With us consumers who spend more are punished by higher prices and it is called tariffs. In previous members, we've seen who's going to determine those tariffs for us. We're getting into a situation, and please don't tell us that our power system is being developed, that something's been working on us for four years, so far nothing's been done. Because Serbian citizens know very well that by 1999, when industry functioned as well as energy consumption, the electricity system met needs. Today, when nothing in Serbia works, when almost no factory works, so it does not consume electricity, we were in a situation, back four years, to import electricity through godfathers, etc. I pray that the citizens of Serbia understand that the agency will determine not only these three zones - green, blue and red, but will use the whole range of colors and at each one of these shades, which is why the dinar, pfenig, cent, will take the euro for the citizens of Serbia. If this Article 4 is deleted by citizens in 67, that is to say, consumers will be put in an equal position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6198	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6199	I propose to the National Assembly not to accept this amendment in the voting day, because, I repeat, all concerns about how it will handle domestic production, what will happen to our Elektroprivred Serbia, this law and its solutions return to the distribution producers, whether it is electrical energy, heat or gas, and according to the authorities, because we cannot interfere with local self-government's powers. But just because the distribution will be returned to production, it is normal for production to define tariffs and prices, because it will define the market itself, i.e. help. simply manage yourself and your product. For this reason, not only this amendment, but all the other concerns about it -- what about our power system, they're pretty much unfounded. What is insinuating is the transmission system, but those who work in the electricity sector know that the transmission system has always been, on condition, a state in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6200	The exhibition was misread, please, Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6201	I almost told Mr. Minister, and Minister Naumov came out. A colleague, Jovicic, acts like he's a minister, but he's not. Being director of Kolubari, so she's the previous DOS furniture, not the one where you've changed, doesn't give you a colleague the right to speak to MPs and to say - I suggest that the amendment is not accepted. So, you are not an authorised representative of the government, but you are an authorised representative of one political party in Serbia, the DSS, who, by the way, is very poor at the rating, or in the electoral body, and you are not given the right of anyone, with such a number of voters behind you right now, and it is obvious that you are increasingly collapsing, to address all MPs and to advise them not to accept my amendment. You are doing yourself a bad favor and your rating will then be lower because of it, and I was just talking about what is the biggest concern of the population in Serbia today. None of the representatives, the heads of the parliamentary groups in this room, would have made such a political guff, to come out and say on behalf of their party or on their own behalf -- don't accept this amendment, and I want to protect a wide range of people in our country. Those who are tariffd in this way, i.e. do you know, colleague, that Article 67 and the position to be deleted are saying that different tariff attitudes can be determined by the tariff system, depending on the amount and type of energy taken over. I'm just telling you that the amount and type of electricity taken over is something that affects a normal and average population in Serbia. The amount of 300 kilowatt hours, according to the lowest tariff now, cannot meet the needs of an average Serbian household, with all restrictions. And that since midnight, since the cheaper electricity, consumption, or the cost of kilowatt hours have been running housewives, all appliances have been involved, and I'm not talking about the fact that this transmission system in Serbia is so bad for many reasons that there are ends that are close to a city, where the voltage is so weak that people get hurt by devices and that no one can make up for it. But it's a different story now. If we are talking about the tariff system and the fact that you are promoting a new concept of the business of Elektroprivreda and this law, then I am telling you - not only is it not in agreement with what the citizens of Serbia want and ask for; in order to live better, provide them with a job and pay for an average of 2,000 euros and no problem. They'll pay the price of electricity like this, she'll still be the most expensive in the environment, but she'll pay for it. However, in this way, a million and a half employees, and so many electricity bills, a reduced minimum tariff from 600 to 300 kilowatts, and you say -- don't accept the amendment, that means that you are not aware of the moment in which Serbia lives today, the vast majority of hungry people, who have nothing to live on. Before you speak to Mr. Angelkovic, you have no right to a replica. The replica on the replica is not allowed by your DOS rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6202	Here you are, People's Messenger Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6203	Well, here's what I suggest to the National Assembly not to adopt this amendment, because the amendment is not good. A better solution is in the bill, and I have the right to do so, as the MP, who submitted the amendment, has the right to propose that the amendment be accepted, because the Serbian Constitutional Court has allowed us to discuss all, all MPs, every amendment, and to make proposals. Therefore, it is my right, as was the right and MP Jovicic to say that the amendment is not good and that it should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6204	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Only you can do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6205	It's simply a misreading, a misrepresentation from here on out, of an amendment submitted to Article 67. It's a bill of law. I use my constitutional right, not the political party I belong to, but what the citizens sent me here, and I protect the interests of both EPS employees and those who need to live on electricity and have enough and enough to simply meet their own needs. Why shouldn't this amendment be accepted? The amendment is not accepted, since the determination of tariff positions depends on a series of elements affecting the technical and technological functioning of the system as a whole. Some of the above mentioned elements in paragraph 4 and also in Article 67, and in all current tariff systems set up for the determination of tariff positions, are related to the process of determining the eligible costs of production, transmission and distribution of electricity. For that reason, I also said that this law returns production distribution, which has not been the case so far, and I mentioned that the most common thing here is that the discussion and the relationship we're making towards the transmission system, and I'd even be free to say what in practice is that the transmission system, or what we know, that we're doing in the electricity industry, and it's called "Electroistok," in a way we're maintaining and I think it's quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6206	Of course, the Rules of Procedure often serve us to abuse him with Article 100. Both of you have abused each other, but of course I will now allow the MP Natasa Jovanovic, although I am aware that this was also an offence, that it was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Governmental Jovicic, from the scene: I didn't mention her. Neither did the Rules of Procedure, nor did you speak of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6207	My colleague abused the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter, now I have the right to reply, because he was talking about Article 100. Rules of Procedure. I didn't mean anything by it, nor did I offend him, I was talking about the fact that citizens live and that they don't fit the new tariff system, and the one that's going to work after the adoption of this law. He, using the opposite of Rule 100 Rules of Procedure, responded to me, read the government's argument. I didn't have time, because in the sixth minute, Mr. Angelkovic did the right thing, interrupted me, and I wanted to tell you, MPs, how incomprehensible it is for the citizens of Serbia and the unacceptable reasoning of the government, to which Mr. Jovicic is called. In all the tariff systems so far, the Government of the Republic of Serbia says, these elements, which were the basis for establishing tariff positions, are related to the process of determining the justified costs of production, transmission and distribution of energy. We can talk about it from now on, so today July 22nd of 20th and 20 minutes, then for the next month. That was also discussed at the polling committee session. Which is justifiable costs, transfers and distributions, who got rich, which is the godfather's bond, how citizens paid it through high electricity prices and don't then call on what the mafia in this assembly, in this second room alone, claimed as an argument for stealing Serbian citizens. Then, when the survey committee's report comes to the Assembly's agenda. And also Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who chaired the polling committee, will, of course, publish this in the edition of "Greater Serbia", all that was said in determining the actual state and that the mafia had and how it used. I suppose you'll buy that book, the price is very popular. All the books so far that have talked about various abuses, and about Covic, and about Canet Zappac, and about what has been discovered by Laufer, what has been happening around criminal activities in our country, is zealously and happily, probably, in his collection, preserved by Mr Naumov. And I guess he had something to learn from that. Well, here, I'll be nice, as soon as Mr. Vukic prints that book, he announced, to direct you to read something out of it, and then you wouldn't give me this kind of explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6208	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please do not use the Rules of Procedure when there is enough space within the Rules of Procedure to talk about the amendment for five minutes. I think it is the merit of all MPs and achievement, in relation to the previous term of office, and thanks to the Constitutional Court's decision, thanks to the SPS's request, it is possible for each member of the Constitutional Court to speak within five minutes of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask that we do not use the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but rather the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6209	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I must warn you that you, as chairman, if you warn the MPs not to violate the Rules of Procedure, you should be on your own. Regardless of what you are currently the one who holds the presidency and you are the first among the equals, that means only, Mr. Chairman, that your obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure is even greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6210	Excuse me, just a minute. Are you suggesting that the Assembly be made aware of this in the voting day, because in some part I have violated the Rules of Procedure? I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6211	If you wait, Mr. Angelkovic, I will please you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6212	In order to clarify further, are you speaking about the amendment or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6213	By amendment, exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6214	Then, please, here's your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6215	But, Mr. Angelkovic, taught by your example, I just have to warn you, because you abused not only the pay phone, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6216	Mr. Sarovic, you're a people's ambassador. Don't warn me, use the Rules of Procedure. If you think that the Chairman has broken the Rules of Procedure, you shall state what he has broken the Rules of Procedure, in which part of the Rules of Procedure, which member and on which part of the Assembly will plead. This is the Assembly and act in harmony with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6217	Please, Mr. Angelkovic, ask the services to bring fresh water here, it's very warm, it's already eight hours and 25 minutes, so it's not easy to work under these conditions, especially if you keep interrupting me. As for Article 67, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic to this member of the Energy Law proposal. This amendment provides for intervention in Article 67 by eradicating Article 4 which states that different tariff positions can be defined by the tariff system, depending on the amount and type of energy taken over, the strength and other characteristics of energy taken over, seasonal and daily dynamics, delivery, takeover sites and measurement methods. If, by any chance, such a solution is voted, or if by any chance Miss Natasha Jovanovic's amendment is not accepted, and I really hope so, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia that this is concerned with, we will have a situation similar to that of the former. Serbian citizens will be punished for the amount of electricity they spend, as well as for the way in which they spend that electricity. You know that in the former tariff system there were benefits as much as during the day there were intervals where electricity was calculated at cheaper tariffs and that since coming to DOS power, it has been abolished, so now our citizens can only use that electricity at night and the structure of spent electricity is about 90% in the higher tariff, which is four times higher, and only about 10% in the lower tariff. This should also be linked to Article 8, which speaks of the electronic balance that I have already pointed to, where the need for rational energy consumption is mentioned. In the SRS' view, this law should not contain concepts such as rational energy consumption. Our citizens are not small, they are able to take care of themselves. They know very well when and how much they want to spend energy and it would be good if the state once started to behave responsibly, to create such conditions in society that for electricity, as well as for any other type of goods, the manufacturer struggles for the user, or the end consumer, and even by spending as much electricity as possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6218	Mr. Sarovic, you've been breaking the Rules of Procedure. You've been talking for more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6219	Mr. Angelkovic, I thank you for so zealously controlling how I respect the Rules of Procedure. Five minutes and two seconds, thank you. I will finish immediately, and I hope you will respect the Rules of Procedure so strictly in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6220	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled this amendment and proposed that Article 70 of the proposed Energy Law be deleted. This Article 70 is contrary to Article 13, as in Article 13 of this Act, the Agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state body, energy entities, users of their products and services, as well as of any other legal or natural person. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 70, proposes to the National Assembly that the contents of this article look like this: "Tariff systems for the calculation of energy delivered, i.e. the services carried out by the Agency with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes the regulation of such powers to the agency is absolutely inadmissible, because in this case the agency will take over the government of the Republic of Serbia's authority. It seems that the Republic of Serbia will be left without government, because all government affairs will be taken over by dozens of agencies, which will employ hundreds and hundreds of employees and thus finance bureaucracy from taxpayers, which will prescribe tariff systems, and it is known that so far these systems have been prescribed by government and authorised other entities, and we believe that this will go at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's recently accumulated electricity, they say 10%. That's not true. It's expensive according to the budgets of many, when you convert from one tariff to another, you'll even get the power from 55%. Serbian citizens must understand once that this is the solution proposed to pay for electricity exclusively to their damage. Serbian citizens, both pensioners and people with disabilities, farmers, workers and others using electricity, will face a major problem in the coming winter with the use of electricity. Therefore, the SRS believes that such tariff systems should be abolished, found a real price and allowed citizens to live and use their own goods, without any other systems that are unknown to the Republic of Serbia. It is known that electricity is produced from multiple sources in Serbia and that the Republic of Serbia has energy potential to produce electricity, but it is only a matter of government and policy that will be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. SRS Deputy President Tomislav Nikolic said yesterday – a man with a purse and a bow came to you and he should take charge, manage and be the owner of many energy systems and great values in the Republic of Serbia tomorrow. It is unacceptable, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, let us fight hard against these laws and such solutions, because each of us will return from where he came from, elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and will have to give answers in January, February, December, during winter, why electricity is so expensive in the Republic of Serbia. We know that we are producers of electricity and that we have enough opportunities to make our consumers and our citizens cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6222	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6223	Article 70(1) of the amendment states: "The tariff systems for the calculation of energy delivered, i.e. the services performed in the performance of energy activities, are brought by the Agency with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". The point of the amendment is not to rule the agency out of this function. The point of the amendment is to add "on the basis of the proposal of energy-related operators agreed in the Agency" behind the word "agency". Why the amendment like this? We are witnesses and experience has been saying that ever since the government became the founder of public enterprises, it means since 1991, our operating company or, as we will call it, energy entities have been having a problem with all decisions on electricity prices, whether they are determined at a distribution level, whether it was an internal distribution between companies, made past public enterprises, and most often those companies had no impact on it. It's a problem that has always been mentioned in the professional public of electricity. We know that so far the tariff systems have brought the government on a proposal from the Elektroprivreda. The purpose of this amendment is not to spoil the imagined process that the law proposes. He's just going in a mild form to help the energy entities in the future so they can influence and present their proposals to the Agency that she can adopt, and she doesn't have to. This is because it is expected that if we carry out the upcoming restructuring and if it is done on this vertical principle as the Ministry promises, we will have our energy subjects exposed to the electricity market and will require both economic-financial and production-technical results. I think it is at least necessary that during this period, while the state remains the owner of these capacities and while the state is wondering about their work, these energy entities, or today's companies, and whether they are from the domain of production, transfer or distribution, we give the opportunity to say their opinion that this redistribution of income, and we know that the adoption of the tariff system is one redistribution of income within these energy entities, has affected this work. I don't think the amendment changes the meaning of the law significantly, and I don't see any reason not to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6224	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6225	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 77, are scheduled to add the words "emergency procedure" after Article 4. What's this about? "The protection of energy facilities. (Follows the first position of this member. ) The energy entity which uses and maintains energy facilities shall have the right to move over the property of the other owner in order to carry out the work on the maintenance, control of the regularity of the facility, device, plant or equipment, and to carry out other necessary works and use of the immovableity on which those works are carried out only while these works are being carried out. The owner of the immovable property shall be obliged to allow access to the energy facilities referred to in Article 1 and to suffer the execution of the works referred to in Article 1(1). "The energy entity is required to pay the compensation determined by agreement. "In the event that the owner of the facility and the energy entity fail to reach an agreement within the meaning of Article 3, the decision shall be taken by the competent court. "After this, the word "emergency procedure" is foreseen. That should be done, and here's why? Energy subjects are otherwise given great authority by law. We've already talked about some, it's an interesting solution from Article 28, logically connected to this member and also talks about using immovableity. It says that the application for an energy authorisation can be submitted by both domestic and foreign legal or natural persons, and that an energy permit can be obtained even before the right of ownership is acquired, i.e. the right to use land where the construction of an energy facility is envisaged, as well as before the issue of an act on urban conditions for the construction of an energy facility, i.e. approval for construction. It's simply incomprehensible what such a rush is, because it's enough that someone who's economically powerful is depriving some plot and saying, I'd be building an energy facility here, so without a prior examination of whether there are any urban conditions for such a thing, without getting permission to build, without acquiring ownership of that property, they get an energy license. Someone gives him permission to build an energy facility on something that's someone else's private property. What are we doing back here? You promised to protect your private property. Whether this person, who has an accident that one of the powerful men is interested in his plot, will be obliged to suffer after that pressure, under this or under those conditions, which will certainly not be favourable, to sell that parcel of his. After that, it is not enough that you are the person who was forced to sell a parcel, but rather the person who had an accident to find his immovableity next to the place where the energy facility was built, is obliged not only to suffer the execution of works and crossings, but to perform certain active operations, i.e.. to allow access to the energy facilities referred to in Article 1. What does that mean? So it's not regulated, it's going to fall under free interpretations later. Will such a face have to build over its plot of passage to the neighboring plot, will it have to tear down the fence it had previously built, and what is this about? Whether or not the state is showing concern for the citizens. What's very interesting is that for the disrespect of this article, 77 is provided for in Article 161 in the case of a misdemeanor, a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 dinars. So whoever doesn't provide a crossing in time doesn't make way over his plot next door, he'll be in a position to pay an extremely large fine. What is also bad is that the penalties are equal for violations, so the energy entity will be punished, as well as the natural person. It's the same amount. How can this apply to energy subjects who are extremely rich in nature, and we know which companies are engaged in the sale of electricity, buying and others. There are no such companies 5,000 in Serbia, there are several, they are powerful companies that have millions and millions of dollars, and for them are scheduled fines from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars. What does the EFT mean, with 50 million or 500 million euros in turnover in the past few months, a fine of 10,000 dinars? This really doesn't make any sense. It's a similar situation... I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6226	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic to Article 134. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 139 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6227	Gentlemen, just for a moment, Article 139 is about the acquisition of the right of the privileged energy producer. I suggest that it be accepted, given that Article 166 that regulates the same matter is already accepted, so that we can bring those two members in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6228	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6229	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject is therefore an amendment to Article 139, which was submitted by the DS parliamentary group, signed by counterpart Mihajlovic. I will explain in detail the idea and meaning of this amendment. I must refer to the explanation given by the Ministry, because the same explanation was used to reject several subsequent amendments whose signature I am. That is why I have an obligation to look a little more closely at Article 139 of the proposed Energy and Amendment Act that has been rejected. So, the amendment that we have submitted -- Article 139(2) states "the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, the city, or the city of Belgrade" is replaced by the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia", and after the words "preserve" the word "close" is added. What's the idea of the amendment we submitted? The idea is that the authorised energy producer, for which the proposed law of 141 has been defined as having all the rights, says the authorised producers of heat energy have the right to subsidies, taxes, customs duties and other reliefs, in accordance with the law and other regulations governing taxes, customs duties and other duties, i.e. subsidies and other incentive measures. Nothing makes it more logical that the Government, if it grants subsidies and determines tax and customs reliefs, assigns the status of an authorised producer of thermal energy, not that local self-government does so, because there are possible abuses, but it does not matter whether or not they will be, but it is crucial that this is resolved at one central level. The idea and purpose of the proposed amendment is that the Government, which grants subsidies and taxes and customs relief, also defines the status of the authorised heat producer. Why did I say it wasn't an acceptable explanation for the Ministry? The explanation of the ministry says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out for not accepting amendments to a member of the 15th Parliament of the same people and for the reason that the status of a qualified buyer of heat energy... "So, Article 139 of the law refers to the authorised heat producer, and the reasons for the ministry of non-acceptation of amendments refer to a qualified heat buyer, which is unacceptable. For this reason, I would point out, however, that, given the inadmissibility of the arguments that we have received from the government or people who have read this amendment, that even the reasons for the rejection of the next few amendments are not acceptable, and therefore I ask my fellow Members of Parliament to accept the proposed amendments, because they significantly improve the legislative proposal. I think we'll all benefit from such defined amendments. One word, so it'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6230	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? MP Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6231	In addition to other explanations, we must adhere to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the congregation bodies. Given that the Legislative Committee rejected these amendments, it gave a negative opinion on amendments to Articles 139, 140, 142 and 144, that is one reason not to accept it. In particular, it gets more into the problems of local self-government than is the solution to the Serbian government's authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6232	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Dragoljub Zivkovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6233	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the re-explanation we've heard from an esteemed DSS colleague who gave an answer on behalf of the Ministry, I don't know if he's competent to give such answers, but I can say the following. If the Legislative Committee or any other Assembly committee, which represents the auxiliary working body of the Assembly that is now in session, has made a decision, we can change that decision because MPs in the meeting can change that decision by majority of their votes. And given the reasons that we have received from the Ministry for Article 139 of the Law, I insist that this argument mentioned, as an explanation for the refusal of amendments to Article 140, is also not acceptable. To remind you, the amendment was filed by the DS parliamentary group, and I signed it. It reads - in article 140, "the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, the city, or the city of Belgrade" is replaced by "the Ministry". Nothing makes sense more sense than that whoever gives subsidies, customs and tax reliefs, doesn't run the register on privileged heat producers. It's very good to do at the central level, so that at this point and this level of our organization and local self-government, we can express our suspicion that they will do so in the best possible way. I propose to the honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support the amendment to Article 140 of the proposed law, which we have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6234	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Minister Naumov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6235	I thought about these amendments to the members that were related to thermal energy earlier had already been clarified, because this activity itself refers to communal activity, and they are defined under the Law on Municipal Activities and therefore not raised to a republican level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6236	On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The government and the Industry Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 146 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 146 of the Energy Act. Article 146 proposes to educate the Agency for Energy Efficiency as a special organisation for the performance of professional activities to improve conditions and measures for rational use and energy and energy saving, as an increase in energy efficiency in all sectors of energy consumption. With this amendment, I suggested that this member be deleted. In fact, we've talked enough about our relationship with the agencies, and I wouldn't repeat it now. Let me just say that this article foresees rationalization in the use and saving of electricity, as well as efficiency of energy use in all sectors of its consumption. I think exactly what the SRS is proposing, to delete this member, leads to efficiency. How does erasing this article lead to efficiency? In such a way that there would be no agency, whose maintenance and functioning will be a burden for Serbian citizens. If it is thought to achieve savings in electricity consumption, in all its forms and visions, this can be achieved in another way. Basically, everyone wants to save electricity, so their obligations based on electricity consumption are as low as possible. Of course, the Ministry of Consumers, Serbian citizens, could help in a different way, not by setting up an agency, which is very expensive for Serbian citizens, and here I mean consumer education, which could be of short-term and one-time importance to certain seminars. There, consumers who want to spend electricity, hence their own home budget, could be invited to a particular seminar, so who wants to attend, please, where experts in the field of energy, i.e. those who would be employed by this agency and other experts from the Ministry of Energy, and perhaps professors from the electrical and other colleges, would show Serbian citizens the most efficient way to save electricity, and thus the less burden on their home budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6238	Anybody else answer for a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in one of my first appearances on the amendment to this pay phone, the basic objection is why two agencies. I think I have managed to explain to Serbian citizens why the DSS, as a party to which this ministry belongs, forms two agencies. Now we're coming up with a member of this other agency. Article 146 educates the Agency for Energy Efficiency, as a special organisation for professional affairs, by improving conditions and measures for rational use and energy savings, as well as by increasing energy efficiency in all sectors of energy consumption. The Agency for Energy Efficiency has a legal personality. National MP Sreto Peric asked for article 146 to be deleted with his amendment. The Serbian government, in response to why it does not accept this amendment, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 146. The bill, which reads "Article 146 is deleted", says: "Amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as indicated for not accepting the amendments of MP Zoran Krasic to Article 1. The bill's proposal and the education of the Energy Efficiency Agency." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that in this reasoning to Article 1, where MP Zoran Krasic asked that Article 1 be deleted and where the Serbian Government has explained on two sides, I read here at the pay phone, in an explanation for other members who went in order, why the SRS parliamentary group asked to be deleted, is the inexcusability of the existence of one agency, another agency. We can link Article 146 to Article 147, which says what the Agency's jobs are: "The Energy Efficiency Agency is doing the tasks relating to: 1) preparing a proposal for incentives measures to increase energy efficiency in the process of preparing the Energy Development Strategy". So, we are coming into a situation that this ministry and this government have no strategy, but in the preparation of the strategy will go further to stimulating measures, to increase energy efficiency. Further: performs "preparation and proposal of programmes and measures to encourage efficient and rational use of energy and monitor their implementation". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us at home and all of us in the companies in which we work take strict care of electricity consumption, gas consumption, other energy consumption, not because we think we have to save energy, but because our financial opportunities don't allow us to act differently on resources than how much our wallet allows us to. Furthermore, point 3 says the agency is conducting "preparing proposals for implementing energy efficiency, exploiting renewable energy sources and protecting the environment". One of the SRS MPs, I cannot remember precisely which, I think, asked Dr Blazic, that this part, which is very important and that no one is concerned about today in Serbia, is returned to the ministry, or to the Environmental Protection Authority. We are witnessing that for months already in the paper, articles are being made that barrels with such and such waste, the citizens of Serbia are being informed of, are on the side of the roads. We are witnessing that there are several hundred barrels of radioactive waste in Vinci itself. We are witnessing an enormous environmental pollution. Instead of effectively solving this issue at the Department of Environment, which is located at the Ministry, we are in a position to have the agency, which is yet to be formed, worry about this. I believe that the amendment of MP Sreta Perić should be supported, and if one agency has to be formed already, and no matter what SRS MPs will vote against, this other agency will not be formed and that at least in this way you will disband the citizens of Serbia the duties that this government has done, since it was formed, and the one that was formed in 2001, is loaded on their necks. Believe me, 90% of Serbian citizens can no longer withstand the charges you have charged them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6240	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Sreta Peric, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 146. A bill on energy, which asked for Article 146 to be deleted. Why? As you know, Article 1 of this law provides for the establishment of two agencies: energy and energy efficiency. The founding of the energy agency was regulated by the third head, while the 13th head was regulated to form an energy efficiency agency. In common with these two agencies, neither should be established, but amendments of the SRS should be accepted. What is different and confusing is that the energy agency is quite regulated, i.e. it is regulated both the establishment and the legal status, and the means by which it will work, whether the legal entity, whether it is functionally independent and everything else; the agency's affairs are regulated, and the agency's management is regulated. On the other hand, when we look at the energy efficiency agency, it is dedicated to only two members of this law. In the first article (146) It is said that an energy efficiency agency is being established, as well as a special organisation to perform professional tasks to improve conditions and measures for rational use and energy and energy saving, as well as to increase energy efficiency in all sectors of energy consumption. The Agency for Energy Efficiency has a legal personality. The question is, who's going to make this agency? How will this agency be organised? Is this agency a state body? Will he have the property of a public enterprise? Whether, as well as the Energy Agency, it will have a company property and be treated in accordance with the Company Act. Will this agency have a statute? What will be regulated in that statute? Who will bring this statute? Will that statute be approved by the National Assembly? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia approve it or will no one approve it? Of which funds will this agency be established? Where will the headquarters of this agency be? The agency is set up, and there's no seat. From whose means, which means will this agency be supported? We don't see any way this agency can support itself. It is neither intended to be supported by the state, and on the other hand, this agency does not grant any licences, does not approve of energy entities building energy facilities, does not solve anything, and the question is whether it will also be able to charge anything that is the basic prerequisite for its operation. Will this agency function on donations, too? If so, then why is it not prescribed who can give these donations, i.e. why is it not prescribed that they are not able to receive donations from energy entities and persons, legal and physical, related to energy entities. The management of the energy agency is also unclear. We know that the agency is run by the Council, that there are four presidents and four members, that they are elected from the ranks of experts, that their mandate will be four years, until at the Energy Efficiency Agency we don't even know if the Council, we don't know if there are any presidents, we don't know how many members, we don't know the criteria on which these members will be elected. You just don't know anything. I'm really asking the minister to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6242	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No). National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 147. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6243	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS MPs, I have submitted an amendment, which states that article 147 is deleted. Why I have submitted this amendment -- the reasons are multiple, because instead of defining the production, transmission, distribution of electricity, their prices, we have received one solution to the policy of restructuring Serbia's electricity economy, market policy and the formation of two agencies. The first agency is also defined, while this second energy efficiency agency has not been defined. And the minister says they are particularly proud of the energy efficiency agency, which is very much in Europe and the world. What's unclear is -- who's going to manage and run this agency, or not defined by the proposed law, or how it's going to finance itself. The budget says -- certain funding funds for the energy efficiency agency, and those from the 7.509.000 dinar budget and from a donation of 250.720.288 dinars. This seems to be precisely the figure, which has forced the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to urgently pass this law, because it is in the budget -- the Energy Efficiency Agency was established by the Regulation on the General Secretariat of the Government of Serbia and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Funding of the Agency's work is carried out, in accordance with the Agreement on a grant for the establishment and operation of the Energy Efficiency Agency, concluded between the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the European Agency for Reconstruction, mostly from EU donors and a smaller part from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The funds for funding the Agency's current expenditure will be available by 31 August 2004, which means that this particular sentence - that these funds are available by 31 August 2004, the reason for the urgent procedure and the adoption of this law, which should in fact be one basic law which, as I pointed out, will solve all these problems that plague one such law as the Energy Act. Finally, I would ask the minister, since he has not spoken in one word, nor has he brought up the problems of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, and in general about energy potentials in Kosovo and Metohija, what is the government planning here. You didn't give up those distribution networks and those energy systems down there. And even though it has been five years since the arrival of the alleged Peace Mission to Kosovo, if they are unable to implement, to activate what existed and worked then, I think the government would have to find ways and means, to get in touch with the international community, to restore these resources, to re-function it, and to ensure that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have a regular supply of electricity. I think it would be a more pressing and priority for the Government of the Republic of Serbia than for these agencies to be formed and that these deadlines are respected to obtain certain funding from donations, as you say - by the European Agency for Reconstruction and Development. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6244	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to convince you why the Energy Efficiency Agency is practically pointless, through article 147, which speaks of the agency's affairs. First, the agency is preparing a proposal for incentives measures to increase energy efficiency in the process of preparing a strategy for energy development. Preparation of the proposal for incentive measures. Point two is similar to this only changed order of words in the sentence, but you will all agree that the energy used more efficiently in the world there are expert teams with a huge number of employees from different areas and we cannot establish any agency to achieve energy efficiency. All we have to do is monitor technological development in the world, follow it, and we don't need any agency to do that. In point 3 of Article 147, the Agency shall prepare a proposal for the implementation of energy efficiency. You see, energy efficiency seems to be something that the agency or the promoter can't understand. In fact, every time you convert from one form to another, or when you convert to mechanical work, there is energy consumption to other side processes, and therefore all transformation of energy is expressed by the coefficient of degree of fact or expressed by loss. Now, you see, no agency can increase, say, the degree of useful fact in burning fuel in internal combustion engines. Why would there be huge teams with different experts in the area's perfection? Will the agency be able to propose to the energy system of the Republic of Serbia some new form of electricity conductors, so that we can achieve energy efficiency. It won't be safe, and that's what experts do, and they're looking for the most optimal way to achieve as little loss as possible. Whether the agency will be able to propose some new way of transporting gas or some new way of transporting oil, thus reducing the price and rationally leading to use. It won't work. Point 5) of Article 147 says the Agency is preparing the criteria for the assessment of the efficiency of the devices in the use of energy and the way they are marked in accordance with the relevant international regulations and standards. It's the only thing that's affected in all of this and what she might be dealing with, but that's why we don't need an agency, it's international standards that are familiar, and we don't need an agency to adopt and rewrite those standards at all. All with financial and technical support in the preparation of the implementation of priority energy efficiency projects, and how the agency will financially assist projects when the agency needs financial assistance from Serbian citizens from the budget. This is absurd. Point 7 - Consultative, advisory and educational activities in promoting energy efficiency. If the agency is going to do educational work, if they're going to educate people who are going to deal with energy efficiency, what will colleges do to us? Machine colleges, where you learn things like thermodynamics, like some others, what if we have people so capable in agencies, they simply educate people. Why do we need electrical engineering colleges where we learn how to transfer electricity, how the transmission can be done with minimal losses, if some people from the agency will know better. Then let's destroy those colleges. Eight, that's what we're used to. It's what every agency has. So what the legislator doesn't remember to list, he writes "and other jobs according to the law," and doesn't even write with any law. What other jobs are in accordance with what law? Once a year, submitting a report to the government is not a comfort for how much it will spend on citizens of Serbia, and the most logical thing is that Articles 146 and 147 at all are deleted and that you give up this agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6246	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted an amendment proposing that six new members be added after article 147. The government and the Committee on Industry did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6247	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike colleagues from the Radical Party who believe that we do not need an energy efficiency agency, we of the DS Parliamentary Group believe that the Agency for Energy Efficiency is necessary, and that it represents an institution that exists in both more advanced and more technologically developed countries in the world and in Europe, and that such agencies have produced extremely good results. Some of these countries' experiences have been passed over the last few years and our Energy Efficiency Agency, it has achieved its first results and therefore it is good to continue to work, to capitalize these initial results, and they are just expected to do so. Yesterday I talked a little bit about the problems of our energy, I don't want to repeat it now, but the fact is that we have inefficientness not only in consumption, and there are four different segments: traffic, construction, industrial and municipal energy, but we also have inefficientness on the side of production and transmission. So all these problems have to be solved and the only way to solve it is with a lot of knowledge. Fortunately, we have a lot of knowledge, we don't have all the knowledge, but we need a good organization to organize the knowledge we have in the country in a solid and efficient way, and with all the knowledge that exists in the world we can organize our energy system so that it achieves the desired results, to the joy of all the citizens of our country. So when we talk about the amendment, which is my task, it's an amendment to the proposed energy law submitted by our MP group, the DS parliamentary group, and on its behalf I signed it, I would like to try to read this amendment briefly. After Article 147, the subtitle and six new members shall be added. An observation has been made that there are no members of the law that define how the agency is managed. I admit right now, I didn't make up anything new, it's all contained in the proposal for an old law or in the draft energy law, and I have to remind other respected ministry colleagues that such a proposal exists in the April 2004 ministry proposal, and that's this proposal. Why, in the meantime, they gave up the concept, they will say it best, but we think it is good to organise an energy efficiency agency as a public service rather than as a special organisation within the ministry. I'll tell you why right away. Because it is important for the Energy Efficiency Agency to integrate into the society of all the knowledge that exists in the field of energy and, what the distinguished colleague just said, to ask the question now whether we need knowledge in colleges. Yes, they are, they are necessary, and the Agency for Energy Efficiency can, with a good organisation, implement the integration of these knowledge. I have to tell my colleagues right away, it's probably their profession that they don't do it, we already own certain such institutions in our country that are organized and achieve results. These are the offices of energy efficiency in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. It is our job to capitalise on these initial results that we already have and have spent several years on. I wouldn't mention foreign experts coming from Norway, Greece, etc. I would insist that we have a lot of knowledge, but what we have to admit is that we still don't have a good organization to effectively apply those knowledge. I'm moving on to the amendment. We suggest that after Article 147, subtitles and six new members are added. Article 147a - The authorities of the Energy Efficiency Agency are the Management Board, Director and Supervisory Board. I wouldn't read everything in detail right now, but these articles contain what and who does the board of directors and supervisors and how they choose. I'll read that part about how the agency works. Article 147d says - the energy efficiency agency for its work and business corresponds to the government of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law. At least twice a year, the Energy Efficiency Agency submits a report on the business of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The part concerning the possibility of integration of knowledge at Serbia level is contained in Article 147j, and the member says - the energy efficiency agency can organise operations from its work cycle through isolated organisational units in places outside its headquarters, and in order to be more efficient in carrying out operations from its jurisdiction. This fits into the principle of decentralisation, which I think also represents one of the democratic principles and enables the system to function more efficiently. The decision shall be taken by the Management Board on the organisation of operations outside the headquarters of the Energy Efficiency Agency. Only half a sentence or one sentence, an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, which is foreseen as a special organisation in the draft law of the Energy Efficiency Agency. That's what we see, and then you say if you organized yourself as a public service, then it would predict the existence of a board of directors and supervisors. So it's not acceptable, in my opinion, an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6248	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6249	I thank Mr. Zivkovic, who spoke very comprehensively and correctly about the energy efficiency agency as an institution that should exist in the modern energy system, that is, every country. I personally participated in the creation of certain centres for rational use of energy a decade ago, I know their significance and all that Mr. Zivkovic said. I also know the results that the existing agency has achieved in these two years, the reputation it has, the projects and the programs it implements. This is not about any challenge from the agency as such, but only about the legal form possible for a single service to be established under this law. Someone's gonna call her an agency, some center, some lab, that's gonna do these jobs that were given in article 147. However, the amendment given here provides for an energy efficiency agency as a special organisation in line with the Serbian Constitution. It's supposed to be educated and it has public service status. Our Article 146 says that the Agency is being educated as a special organisation, and this is in line with the Constitution and the Ministry Act, as it performs professional tasks related to this energy efficiency. Your amendment indicates that if it were legally possible, it would actually be a public service. Since the Agency does not carry out tasks, i.e. actions to ensure the exercise of the rights of citizens and organisations as public services, this is contrary to the Public Service Act. We couldn't build the agency in the way we did in all previous versions of the law, even in April, which you mentioned, since it was simply legally impossible. However, it has complete independence to carry out all these tasks it will do now. I hope so, and I will support her work with all my heart, and that will be for the greater good.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6250	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 159 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6251	Ladies and gentlemen, a little attention at the end of the discussion in particular. It is part 15 – criminal provision of the proposal for this law, criminal act, Article 159. I'll read it because it's very short, it's got two attitudes. The first refers to self-performing facilities. "When self-contained facilities, devices or installations are self-connected to a portable, transport or distribution system, they will be punished for a criminal offence for up to three years (Article 64(1) of this law). "The second point: "Who uses energy without or without measuring devices or contrary to the conditions laid down in the contract regarding reliable and precise measurement of energy taken over will be punished for a prison offence by one year (Article 64(2) of this Act). "My amendment refers to the addition of Article 159 of Title 3 in Article 159 and reads: "If the work of Article 1 or 2 of this article is done in order to obtain itself or another illegal property benefit, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to ten years". This third position applies exclusively to the intention and has a basis in Article 166. Criminal code, point one point one, three and five, the crime scene of heavy theft. What makes this proposal the way it is? For one simple reason, our electricity losses range from 15 to 25 percent, of which non-technical or commercial losses take a significant place. If we do not equate heavy theft with the theft of electricity, or with people who dare risk their lives to do such a serious crime, means with a very deliberate intention, if we do not get in the way of it, I think that the main problem of electricity loss, which is growing more and more day by day with the crisis, needs to be found in some way one legislative regulation to get in the way. I'm saying this for the reason that even such a severe punishment of up to ten years has in law the possibility of mitigation, or relief, that, if there are lenient circumstances, this punishment can be reduced even below that one year. What's the problem? I'm particularly talking about this because on the Committee on Industry, the Minister has accepted this amendment, with an explanation that I've given here. However, it is the court's authority to assess whether there are easing or extenuating circumstances for this sentence to be below one year, and that for ten years it will act very educationally and warningly for those who dare to do so. I thank you and I think that we should vote on this and accept this amendment, and especially because the minister, in the light of the Committee on Industry's session, also accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6252	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot accept this amendment because the first two attitudes are extremely rigorous. It can't be said that they haven't been given an asset. Issuing a third position that suggests, if the work is done in order to obtain property benefit, the perpetrator should be punished by imprisonment from one to ten years. Turns out there's no real estate benefit under heading 1st and 2nd. There is. Anyone who joins himself gets himself a property benefit. Anyone who uses electricity beyond the contract in terms of measuring its consumption provides himself with an asset benefit. It's too high in attitude 3. The property benefit is both in item 1 and in point 2. That's why you're being punished. Why would you punish someone who did something, and there is no advantage of it, and there is no damage to the electricity industry or to the one who delivered the electricity? By the way, I think the sentence of a prison of one to three years for such an act is too heavy, but as I recall it is somewhere in the Law on the Construction of Objects already envisaged, who joins without a building permit is also the intended prison sentence, so this could be accepted since there is already a prison sentence for certain acts in other laws. So I'm against it to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6254	The word has Minister Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6255	National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic accurately presented the chronology of the amendment that speaks of theft as a criminal offense. Then on the Committee on Industry, I accepted his amendment, and later on, we took the view that it's too much criminal sanctions, I don't know how to say it legally, but I have to point out, especially, since this is now the first time that electricity theft is qualified as a crime. So far, there have been multiple attempts, and there have been failures, because it's not under Criminal Law, it doesn't satisfy this, it's the first time in, and I think that the measures in this amount, the criminal measures, will set their goal, or electro-price, to protect against theft. Thank you. I stand by the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6256	I thank Minister Naumov. Is anyone answering for word yet? No, I don't. ) On Article 166 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlović. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Industry and the Government's representative at the Committee session accepted the amendment, however, the government expressed a negative position in its opinion. Is the government's position valid? So it's definitely the government's position. The government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6257	I'll just take a minute. I refer again to the Committee on Industry, where this member has been accepted by the Ministry and so far I have been of the opinion that this member has passed and on this basis asked for Article 139, which refers to the privileged heat producers, to be equated with the acceptance of this. Suddenly, something happened that this amendment to Article 166 was also not accepted, and that is why I am expressing dissatisfaction. It's about privileged heat producers. My colleague from the DS – Boris Tadic has already presented those reasons, so I would not repeat it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6258	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6259	So I repeat what I said during the previous amendment. I accepted Mr. Mihajlovic's amendment to the Committee on Industry, and the government has taken the view that it should not be accepted, so I represent the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6260	We've made that clear. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic to Article 170. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan S. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6261	Dear colleagues, we have returned to what has been said many times in the principle debate, which is the principle of organization. In transitional provisions, i.e. in Article 170, the Government shall be empowered to establish a way of organising energy operators to carry out energy activities that have been implemented by public undertakings established by law and so on until the date of entry into force of this law. In principle, the debate from this speaker reached the agreement to go in the direction of vertical restructuring, and in my amendment, I ask that it be written. So, all that we agree on, I think it should be written, because Article 170 does not make it clear what the guidelines are that the government will continue to organise energy activities and energy entities in the future. Especially given the previous experience. I would like to say that I deeply and sincerely believe the minister who has shown us his vision of this future restructuring here, but we have also had the opportunity to hear what the previous minister, or the minister, has been saying about this issue, and I do not want to believe that Mrs. Udovicki is going back to this place. But I'm not sure that in this situation, a Member in 170 would not be interpreted in a much more rigid way and that would lead to the distribution of the Electroprivreda or I don't know in which direction. I therefore believe that leaving the Government with one important question to resolve after the adoption of this law, I do not see anything bad about this legislative home in its future business to add this guideline to Article 170: "The principles of organisation will be based on the principles of unity, integrity and vertical organisation of enterprises". Especially since this is the practice that has proved to be right in the world, and all of Europe's bigger and better electricity systems are working on this principle, and I think that this would ensure maximum efficiency of the system and protect the state and national interest of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6262	Thank you. The word has Minister Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6263	And in previous versions of the law and our previous discussions, and when we were in the shadows and now in the sun, when there were words about the Elektroprivreda, and all day today we are talking about electricity and electricity and the organisation of energy and energy efficiency, the main stumbling block is always a concern for the survival of a good system like the electricity system, a way to organize the work of a future company in the conditions created by this law, which, of course, is a metaphorically said bomb. It is a bomb, a change of relationships, a change of understanding, and that is why it was a completely understandable concern and fear of what would happen to Elektroprivreda in her future organization. I am also a supporter and I also know that the vertical organisation of the system is still a reliable system and that we must not break our reliable energy system for some not well known, for our mentality and our tradition of characteristic, other organisational forms, as offered by this law of the previous minister, which envisioned complete horizontal disintegration. Here through this law, meaning, through the entire law that provides broad opportunities for the organisation of future energy companies, especially here in the final provisions, we are talking about a vertically organised system, because production, distribution and a wholesaler of quality electricity makes a vertical organization. We're talking about a separate transmission here that would be along with the system operator, because by the directives, if the transmission was included in that vertically integrated system, maybe two or three actions in it, but it's important that there's more than one; if the transmission was combined with production and distribution, the system operator couldn't be with them together, and it's a small entity and in these conditions, however transitional, I think it would be smarter to be with the transmission. And for this reason, the transitional provisions stipulate that the government will make a decision on how to organise, on the form with these two suggestions and findings. This has been practically resolved by the previously existing mistrust, and it is very clear what the Government and what we have in mind in the future of the electricity system, always making sure that the electricity system is together with the oil industry, or the backbone and the only thing we can rely on in the development and economy of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6264	I thank Minister Naumov. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Misa Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6265	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to article 171 submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group Dragan Jovanovic. The substance of the amendment is exactly the same as in Article 170. The reason I came out was the next one. First, we want to express our determination in the request that the system as energy is vertically organized. Secondly, I must admit that it seems astounding to me that the minister fully agrees that this system is the best organized system, and at the same time it does not accept the amendment. I would like to say next - Article 171 provides for the government to establish the principles of the organisation by means of an act establishing an energy entity. We say - why is it not possible by law to give guidance? Why it is not possible by law to oblige the government to make sure, when it determines the principles, that they are then based on the principles of unity, integrity and vertically organised enterprise. Nothing more. Let the government do, it's transferred to the government's jurisdiction, but let these principles be respected. That's what we're looking for, and we think it's one of the key objections to our energy law, aside from those issues of coal, property, national wealth, environmental protection, because it's nice to produce electricity, but it also takes care of a huge number of people living in that area, and now they can't live off the ashes. I'm just going to take an example of Lazarec, Obrenovac, the entire settlements, and that's what needs to be dealt with, but I'm going back to this question. Mr. Minister, in public these days, your statement is that you, in fact, and in your explanation, are saying that this is how the government is going to do, that these are vertically linked enterprises. You've excluded the only transmission. However, I'm not in agreement with your argument that the transfer covers only 1,500 workers, that's not something, that's not the point. The essence is the function of transmission, and yet you know it best by experts, counting our expert, which means transfer and why it's important. If that's the case and if you're saying in the press that they're going to be organized like that, why don't you write it in the law? What you're saying, as my predecessor colleague said -- we trust you, that the government will honor promises, but that doesn't tell the law, that's what the minister says, we trust and trust this government. There's something we don't believe, but I have to say, I don't think Cory's coming back, but if God doesn't come back, there's a legal basis that he can organize the company the way he wants. In the end, we would like to once again propose that we give the government a chance and an opportunity to accept this amendment that does not disturb the essence of the law, in fact, only gives one restriction to the government, to do as this government promises to do in that sense. I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6266	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the draft law has only been completed in detail, does the proposing's representative want a final word, as referred to in Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Minister of Energy Radomir Naumov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6267	Dear People's MPs, we have come to the end of this marathon review of our law, which in principle, according to amendments. On my part, I really thank you for your efforts to improve this law. This law will only be an initial step in a multi-year business ahead of us, a business of reorganisation of the energy sector, whose ultimate goal is to establish a self-sustainable market sector, in line with national interests in the energy sector. By adopting this law, we immediately get a strong stimulant, or legal basis. When we say restructuring in this domain, we usually misread the whole reorganisation term. In this case, it's about reorganization. We get a constant stimulant and impulse to reorganise the sector in order to make it an efficient sector based methodologically and functionally on the principles of energy sectors in the world. The first step resulting from this law is to adopt and propose a strategy for energy development, in fact, a key document stemming from our energy policy. The energy development strategy is practically in the final phase, in the draft. I hope we present him here soon, that document. Through it you will see and remove all these doubts or doubts that are expressed, through which you will see yourself and whether we give up Kosovo or not, we will see how price policy is projected, how market design is projected, whether or not liberalisation will be talked about, or privatisation. So these are documents where these questions are considered, while the law is not. The law is just one framework document that allows individual energy actions to be united on these principles that we have spoken of so far. The adoption of the Jackon really opens our doors to integration in Europe, however pathetic or already pathetic it sounds. I must point out that the creation of a single market is a very important moment, because it will represent this integral element, it will be one of our ways to respect us, whether we are members of the European Union or not. I can tell you today that the Southeast European Stability Pact, inspired by the European Commission, is working very seriously to create the energy community of Southeast Europe. Soon it will be discussed at the highest political level. This brings together our entire area: Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Albania and the former Yugoslav countries. We can now very effectively engage in all this, when we have this law, not forgetting that in energy terms and geostrategic we are in a very important place both in energy capacity and in the importance of these interconnective and other ways. So from tomorrow, when I hope the law is passed, we turn a new page in our development. That's what you'll see will really be a bomb.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6268	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. In line with the decision of 130 MPs, we are moving to search the 11th item of the agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the general search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group – 1.38,24 hours, DSS – 1,03,36 hours, DS – Boris Tadic – 44,24 minutes, G17 plus – 37,12 minutes, SPO – 26,24 minutes, SPS – 26,24 minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. People's MPs complain not to hear. I'm trying to speak as loudly as possible. I thank all those who have shown concern for my health in the meantime. As you can see, everything's fine, we'll be in touch. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Important announcement: a session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee will be held on Friday 23 July 2004 at 9:00 p.m., on the ground floor. It's important because of all these amendments. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6269	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for your understanding today for the needs of more effective legislative activity of the Government. And also, with this gratitude, to express my position that I will fully respect your intention to work deep into the night until this law is passed. So as soon as possible, I hope in an extremely simplified way, that all of you who don't know much about these extremely professional things can understand something, and that the citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission tonight and are interested, at least something of the profession, along with this much demagogy, for these agencies, would have the opportunity to hear tonight. In short, the proposal for this law represents, above all, the programme promise of this government of Serbia, expressed here at the exposé in early March of this year, for which we received support from the parliamentary majority in the area of the state administration, when we said that many unconstitutionally educated agencies, as a government service, would be reassessed by the previous government and that they would then be shut down or educated in accordance with the law. Also, proposing such a law is another programme promise from this government, which is that it will be advocated for the public of work. Just by adopting this law, you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament will get what you haven't had until now, which is that these agencies, whose education is proposed by this law, are available to the public. So far, if dear MPs may not have known this, because of the status of these agencies that were government services, they were not only counter-educated, but they were secretly educated, and even for those of us who belong to the professional public. We couldn't find out what they were doing in practice. You, as MPs, did not have the opportunity to use those funds that belong to you under the Constitution and the law, as regards the control of the work of all state authorities, including agencies. You couldn't look for work reports, you couldn't control it. The education of these agencies, proposed by the law presented tonight, will allow you even to, using the powers of the Law on State Administration, if you really want to see what you are doing, to invite each of you personally and to ask for a reception with the official who manages the agency as a special organisation, and I believe that all of them, as representatives of the Serbian Government, will respect that obligation to receive you within eight days, of course, and to give you the necessary information. If you didn't know, at least now you hear from this pay phone that you have that kind of control. You don't just need to control the agencies and authorities of the administration with demagogue stories from this pay phone, but you need to use your legal opportunity and get to know what these agencies are doing, so you can really control them, to control where all of us are going as taxpayers. Also, the proposal for this law is the beginning of state administration reform. Tonight, Serbia is entering a new process of state administration reform. You will face these reforms immediately after this summer's break, in the first days of legislative activity, you face a number of laws in the area of state administration reform. The proposal for tonight's law is also part of Serbia's European integration path, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has made. In fact, it is likely that by hours as many of your parliamentary groups have at their disposal, and knowledge, ignorance, evil or good intentions, you will use it to criticize the agencies. Each of us, who has read the Law on State Administration, and before that, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and not to say that we have completed a legal and perhaps some other college, and may have had the opportunity to, despite all the difficulties that we have faced in previous years, which have made it impossible for us to travel, to visit a little Europe, whether in office as an executive representative, or as a MP, you have seen that some countries, which are like democracy, have not three, as proposed by tonight's law, already have three hundred, over 300 agencies, and no one in the world or the citizens of those countries, that such a government, to declare to be an irresponsible government. Of course, these many agencies that exist also have the ability to control. Their work is available to the public. How will you ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament know how to use it, from tonight on, it will be your concern. The Serbian government, proposing such a law, shutting down agencies that are anti-constitutionally and secretly educated by the regulations of the previous government, will give you the opportunity to control how these agencies and how well they work, how they spend our budgets. The constitutional basis for the education of these agencies as special organisations is found in Article 94. The Constitution. According to that member of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, you are in the position of special organizations, sitting across various governments educated some forms of special organizations, for which at that time, sitting in a comfortable chair of the professional public, I could not find any serious justification. Let's mention, let's say, committees as collegiate bodies, and we know that long ago all the authorities of the state administration, including special organizations, are exclusively because of the efficiency of their work educated in an in-coherent principle. We remember the bodies, as a sensational organisational form of the government's body and special organizations. It was then, to remind you, not so long ago, not at the republican level, but at the federal level. But many of you were sitting right back then, though not in these parliamentary benches like tonight, and I remember very well -- in the federal government, which then adopted the Law on the Education of Federal Ministries and Other Federal Authorities and Organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remind ourselves of where you are in your own time, sitting in these parliamentary benches, as representatives of the government, proposing administrative organizations in the form of museums, in the form of vaults, all of which are organisational forms of administrative organizations, as well as agencies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. Now, in such organizational forms, when you were able to exercise power, so that you'd be best organized, as you know, you decided to spend money. By proposing tonight that special organizations, and only three, be educated in the form of agencies, we have decided to give you a chance to control how these agencies, which are educated by the government, spend money. Previous agencies have been educated, as I have already said - in an anti-constitutional way, by a government regulation. There were 13 such agencies in total. As promised in the exposé here, we did, we put out all those agencies by amending that regulation, for which we did not find a legitimate need to exist. Only three of those 13, which existed in the Constitution, and that's exactly what the law tonight was done, which I represent here, is what we educate them in the way the Constitution requires, in the form of special organizations. In addition to these 13 agencies, there was an anti-constitutional education as a government office of one Bureau of Communications, and the first act of this government was to abolish the bureau. There was also a mine removal centre, and today it is also proposed to be educated in the form of a special organisation and to be called a mine action centre, and its basic activity will be – professional affairs regarding humanitarian demining, i.e. there is a need to do these jobs in our country as well. It is proposed specifically by these 13 agencies, which existed in an anti-constitutional way i.e. which are educated as government services, that only three are educated by this law, so in the Constitution it is envisaged. And that, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, as a special, independent organization. It should create conditions to provide specific financial resources for the development of local self-government infrastructure. You won't be in the evening of local elections, when we should give citizens the chance to finally decide who their real representatives will be at the local level, to deny the lack of education of this agency's future leadership of local self-government to a number of donors, who need to help develop the infrastructure of local self-government, and whose way of using the new leadership from September of the month at the level of local self-government. As another agency, we propose to educate the foreign investment agency and the promotion of exports. We suggest that it also has an independent status, to be an independent legal person in the form of an administrative or special organisation. Is it necessary on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is one reformal, pro-European government, to justify the need for foreign investment and the promotion of exports of our products abroad, in this way, through a special law-educated body. Finally, the third agency proposed is an environmental agency, unlike these two, it will also be a special organisation, but as part of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. The agency should collect data on environmental protection, and what is fundamental - to co-operate with international organisations in the area of environmental protection. If you did not know, in this area it is the European Environment Protection Agency and the European Information and Observation Network. In the end, and something that represents only a technical matter, which is a minor change in the work of the two ministries. In fact, it is proposed that part of the section, more specifically, of the tasks relating to the quality control of certain products from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. To conclude -- the ultimate objective of this bill is to make the law clear once in a clear, well-designed way, by law, to distinguish precisely between state administrations, administrative organisations, on the one hand, and government services, on the other hand. Given the fact that you have not submitted any amendments to this law, I assume that you have not been able to find any serious objection worthy of your attention, so that you may suggest any change in the members of this amendment proposal and additions to the law. I thank you for your patience for listening to me this evening and I expect your quick support for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6270	I thank Minister Lonchar. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Chairman of the Committee on Justice and the Chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know who or what ate the minister, but it's inappropriate, Mr. Minister, I didn't really expect it from you, I remember when you explained some of the laws here, I had a good opinion about you, I saw that you appreciated the MPs, inappropriately to accuse us in advance and attack us for being against some agencies. You don't even know what our views will be, you prejudge them, and even if they're negative under your bill, how come you have so many charges to attack us at such a late time of day. It's really good if you're right. I don't know if you're right, because the attacks I heard tonight were directed against the DS government, which was founded by three regulations, I mean five agencies, which are at stake tonight, which is one reform government, widely recognised in Serbia, advanced and leading us to Europe. I repeat, it's good if you're right to regulate the establishment of agencies by law. I don't know if anyone challenged the constitutionality of the government's regulation on the establishment of agencies. If there is a position of the Constitutional Court, then I am giving you the right to attack this way of establishing agencies, and if you have not addressed the Constitutional Court and if you do not have the Constitutional Court's position, then your opinion from the chair of the professional, legal public, is of interest to me as an opinionary lawyer, but it does not affect my views tonight. This law is, you say, based on the constitutional basis of two members of the Constitution. One is that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the organisation, jurisdiction and work of the republican authorities. This is Article 72(1) point 11 and more interesting, Article 94(5). The constitution of Serbia, which you are calling upon, and you say -- ministries and special organisations are republican bodies, undermining republican authorities, whose organisation and jurisdiction are governed by law. With this law, you're really setting us up with the jurisdiction of these agencies, but there's no organization, Mr. Minister. In order for one agency to be controlled by the National Assembly, as you say, it will now be the first time, especially with these agencies to stop working, for foreign investment and promotion of exports, for environmental protection and mine removal centres, the National Assembly has to arrange their organisation, at least as we do with all other agencies; to determine the authorities of the Agency, the way of their election, the number, the way in which the statutes are adopted. You say here, these are not republican organs. How can I call the Republic Authority a company that you say has a legal personality? Is it a government or NGO, who's going to choose organs, who's going to adopt statutes, what resources for trusted jobs? Is there any trust in these agencies or is she entrusted with all the jobs? You say, unless the law is passed. What, we've lived without this law before, with the agencies set up by the regulation. It's not my fault this government hasn't broken that agency by law for four months. If you don't call it off tonight, you'll end it another night. There are and there are agencies working. Will someone challenge them in front of the Constitutional Court? I don't know. Whether or not their work, their decisions, I'm not sure about that. You're saying yourself that we need an agency that will promote our exports. If this agency has yet to promote exports, fortunately, as it was founded, it was up to you to determine, not us. Because I don't believe in the opinion of the Minister or anyone in the legal community until I hear the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. He only assesses whether something has been done in accordance with the Constitution or not. What about these cosmetic changes in two ministries? I'm afraid the Ministry of Agriculture is taking control of it, because I don't trust the Minister and I'm telling you this openly. But what about the employees? Will all these inspectors automatically move to a ministry where they haven't worked or won't? I can see that there was a good intention, or it was a bit of a wish, a little vengeful appearance towards the previous government, which was really rough, wildly founded by these agencies. This good will should be carried out to the end. The agency founded like this isn't completely finished for me. Then it's like a regulation was established, because as a MP, I'm not going to be involved in making a law that will then supplement the government with regulations. I want everything to be clear in the law, I want to look at the whole agency, like the one I was against for energy, but I totally saw it in the law. I've been against her, but she's had everything since the day she's been published in the Official Messenger, she's got all the organs. He can choose, he knows who's proposing, he knows how many members he has. You know the qualifications of people who have to work there to run that agency. For these three agencies, for these new agencies that you have placed with the institutions, and with the directorates, and with the Secretariat of the legislation, I see no way for them to be legal persons under the control of the National Assembly, and it has not affected their establishment, except by allowing the law to be established and prescribed by the authorities. You have to admit that the right to the establishment of the agency and the authority of the agency is not a complete decision to be made by the National Assembly. On the other hand, I repeat, this isn't well enough done, this isn't completely done, this isn't ready to decide. Good will can't justify everything. It's about time. I think we got my law back in May. It was time for all this to be done right. Perhaps someone has forgotten that there are these bill proposals, who today or these days remembered to put them in an emergency session. I repeat, don't be in a dilemma to think that I might have been in favor of a solution made by the previous government. I wasn't up for the regulation to set up agencies. I'm against it for the law to be founded by agencies, but if you're setting them up, that's why I'm gonna start them by law. There is some kind of control of agencies by the National Assembly, but this must be done completely to be supported by the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6272	Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have since May this proposal for a law on ministries. It was obvious that at that moment you were in a hurry because you asked for an emergency procedure and that the law would come into effect immediately the next day of its adoption, but here we have not had it on the agenda for almost two months and what is, above all, controversial in this proposal. And I remind you that the MPs of the SRS did not take much more part in the debate on the proposal of your ministry law, which was adopted at the beginning of the year, because we felt it was the right of the government to organise it as it deemed necessary. By reading the reason for this law, I have come to the conclusion that some of the concepts are mixed, that is, your reasoning that should be in line with this law is that the ministry first and foremost belongs to so-called. authoritarian powers, and that special organisations, including agencies, do not in principle have these powers and are mainly analytical and proposing to them. If that's not true, I'll explain it to you on the case that we just had today in the debate on the Energy Law proposal, when, by special law, which is in accordance with the Constitution, we set up an agency that performs these very authoritarian tasks, because the issue of a licence, decides by appeal, makes tariff systems, determines the methodology for determining the tariff elements. So, it's not professional business, but, in my deep conviction, it's you commanding, authoritarian, or very broad powers that no one can interfere with. You've decided that some agencies, which you say are unconstitutional, are, in my opinion, but that's what your court is supposed to give the Constitutional Court, to abolish, because you think they're too high, and you've defined yourself to keep three agencies and form one agency within the Ministry of Environmental Protection. What I don't know is what your motive is for these three agencies with a legal personality to function exactly like that, and that this environmental protection agency works within the environmental protection board, so it has a different status than these three. So, what's the defining thing for you when you decide to give one organization, in this case to the agency, a legal personality and another not? Is the motive for this perhaps a way to finance these organizations, because we do not see from this law how they will finance themselves if they are special legal persons, whether they are on the budget, from donations or from some third-party means. We really don't know that. For this environmental agency, we know that it is financed from the budget, and for these three, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, for foreign investment and promotion of exports and this demining centre, as you said, or for the destruction of mines, we do not know how it will be financed, nor does this exist in the explanation, except that in one part of the law, no additional funding is needed to implement this law. Probably because these agencies were still there, so they were in the budget plan for this year. So that's one explanation that we MPs need. As for the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, my deep belief is that this agency is just a transmission and a link between donors and local self-government, so I'm asking why our local self-government needs a mediator in the matter of donation and others, I don't think we need this important ministry law to imitate some of our expectations that we're going to get some major donations related to infrastructure, which would be directly granted to local self-government. In general, my expectations, and my SRS parliamentary groups in some near future, and hopefully further, are not such that we should base some of our plans on expectations of getting money from someone. It would be better to, like the Government and perhaps the Prime Minister as the authority to deal with what the current foreign minister is doing, which instead of asking for what belongs to our country from the aggressor countries, tells us that he will withdraw the lawsuit against NATO countries, which have caused us so much material and immaterial damage, and the collection of that war damage is our greatest hope that we will get out of this economic crisis and out of this misery that we are currently in. So that's about the local self-government infrastructure development agency. As for foreign investment and export promotion agencies, which should carry out professional jobs relating to the promotion of foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia and covering the preparation, development and presentation of information on various business opportunities and advantages of investment in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, I think you have taken over the work of the current President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, who, in his pre-election campaign, promised to do so and has shown us that he is very successful in doing so, because in the state of Illinois has already arranged some business contacts and has probably made it possible for some of our producers, we do not know which, to export our goods. So let a man do that when he shows that he's capable, we don't need him here at the republican level, in the government, to spend more on the budget, or maybe by your idea this agency should be available to Boris Tadic, to do these professional jobs, and he's just traveling around the world and negotiating the export of our brands, except we don't know which brands, because we haven't fought to have any more significant brands yet. The demining centre, the right to tell you, is the biggest surprise for my parliamentary group, because we didn't know it existed at all, and I think that there was something more to be said in the explanation about the need for the existence of this centre, or how many mines there are, which our ballistics experts haven't removed so far. Perhaps there is a more professional term, I really don't know whether it is necessary to establish one such organisation, which still costs and long-term needs to do something, to approve of work plans, to give some licenses, to exercise quality control, to monitor the application of international contracts and standards in the field of demining, to achieve international co-operation, as well as other tasks of a certain law. I'm a little concerned with the fact that our country needs to start an organization like this. This means that there are a very large number of mines that have been removed, and since cooperation is also planned, international co-operation is possible, some of our experts, or will work to train more of our experts, to get some certificates, and to remove those mines where we would not like to be engaged. In any case, the argument is not satisfactory. Of course, the parliamentary majority will decide that this organisation of the ministry will function in the future, and that is another of your rights, in accordance with the Constitution, but some of the questions remain, we have lost some answers to some questions, looking at the explanation and constantly imposing a crucial question: who makes you start such agencies, why you called this exactly an agency. If these three special organizations had the need to call the agency, not to be an office or a secretariat, a directorate, all three could have been directorates, why did you call this environmental agency, which works within the environmental protection board, this is what you called it. There is always a belief that someone is making you do it, someone who decides what kind of state organisation we are going to have, someone whose concepts are detached, normal, and we are not really, so I'm not convinced that even you, I think about the government, of course, suspect that all of these organizations, which we are so unfeelingly founded by any of this ministry law, were a special law, because we do it every day, and yesterday we are convinced that there are already professional organisations whose services can be used for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6274	I thank the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and for the word to be prepared, MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am not surprised by your ironic attitude and your hypothetical thinking of what attitude we will take on the proposal of this law and what we will say, because a few days ago, and looking at, or alone, how you have lied and what assessment you have given of the upcoming local elections in Serbia, visiting the central show of state television, has concluded that haughtiness has become your manner. In the same way you responded to the journalist, the director of that show, that is, in the diary, and at one point, since we laughed at that cynical presentation of yours, I thought that you had the impression that you were in the 1980s and that you were addressing delegates from various cities and districts, who some communist personnel came from their midst, not from the MPs to the democratically elected ones. And above all, you spoke to the MPs of the SRS, knowing that we would be against this kind of solution, and you don't want to bear in mind that all the time our political action was actually our goal, and we kept showing it from this pay phone, and while we mentioned that period, you participated in the government, that we were promoting the state administration. This is what you said: tonight, by adopting, by promoting this law, there will be a continuation of the reform course in that area, and it means nothing to us, because behind these reforms there is a legal solution that is not acceptable to us, although you have called on the Constitution, and it is good that you put something into constitutional frameworks. From this very explanation, it is our recommendation, and mine tonight, that you do otherwise, that you abolish these agencies that you want to put in the framework of the law and that they exist. You said in your explanation, Mr. Minister, that two solutions were possible when solving the foreign investment agency's status, promoting exports, environmental protection agencies and mine-removing centres, and you say, first, that after the adoption of this law new office changes and that they cease to work, which is our warmest recommendation. Second, to get their work cut off immediately by this law. From the so far-exposure, both the head of our parliamentary group and Mrs Pop-Lazic, which I will support when it comes to the export promotion agency and foreign investment, you could see that we have a basis for such a claim and that it is unnecessary to stand. First of all, when it came to the adoption of this year's budget and the incredible deficit of 45 billion dinars, and when we sharply criticised Dinkic's budget for this year, we just pointed out that, an item per item, from the ministry to the ministry, to the completely unnecessary existence of the agency in any form. Their abolition is also a very important saving in the context of public and budgetary spending. Secondly, you can't convince us at all that the continued work of the foreign investment agency and the promotion of exports will change something in this dreary daily life that we have and such a course of economic that you continue from the previous DOS government. Because if this agency, which existed under the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you now want to continue its operation by adopting this law, explain to us, Minister Loncar, what this agency has achieved and how it has helped, through the ministries and with the ministries whose work it is, since March of the month, Vojislav Kostunica. Tell me, what kind of direct foreign investment did we have, what kind of promotion of exports of our products, when statistics are very precise about what happens to our dramatic and external trade deficit and when it's getting bigger and bigger, and when it comes to product control, and it's not just agricultural products, but it's taxing, say, mineral water control, explain whether it's normal for you and the budget and as a minister to justify the existence of this agency, and on the other hand, you know that, as well as the entire government and the competent ministry, they didn't do anything to improve the situation. If more than 10 million gallons of mineral water is imported into the country, if agricultural products fail, if the roadblock and tonight by Bora workers on a stake from Batocina to Pojat, if the wave of strikes is unsatisfactory, if the budget is hard to fill, if there are no profits, if there are no production, new investments, acceleration and opening of new businesses, explain then, not just to put it on paper, how will this agency help to make such a difference. So she survived in the context of the creation and creation of these agencies. Then, in your explanation, you say that some who have been formed, whose work has not begun, have stopped working. Our recommendation is that you stop these and they stop working. You say, management agency, social care, health improvement, river traffic improvement, and so on, as well as environmental protection agencies. I have to remind you of the fact that at certain times when the previous Dossage Authority, I guess you should learn from other people's mistakes, no longer had arguments for disastrously bad policy in all areas of our society, has reached out for the work of this agency or those that will help improve the situation. When it comes to environmental protection, they had one DS personnel member, who organised some actions when foreign investors also came. You must then explain to us whether this agency will have a conflict with the current President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, because it is obvious that the competencies given to the agency and Tadic, which he does not have by the letter of the Constitution, are intertwined. If he could travel through America all these days, promise that foreign investors would come here, that, without the consent of anyone in Serbia, he gave support to one of the presidential candidates, in this case, the democratic candidate in America, Kerri, if he could arrange various meetings with the businessmen and continue to give false hope without specific examples to all those who expect a job, explain the justification for the existence of this agency, regardless of what you want to put it into legal frameworks and what you call for the Constitution, and that is only positive. We have no reason to be optimistic about your ministry and your entire government. I focused on this one agency, to improve local self-government, which means new donations, new loans. In Kragujevac, Belgrade, in all other cities in Serbia, the issue of how all these donations ended, and there was no concrete benefit from it by 99% of citizens on the territory of the local self-government. We recommend to you, and that is our view, that the existence of the agency is unnecessary, that it is a new budgetary spending of funds, that those in themselves, without concrete moves by certain ministries and governments, and we believe that this current one is not capable, will not improve anything in these numbered areas, and therefore we will be against this bill. Not from how you wanted to show it, some demagogue reasons, all for a reason, and above all, because of the fact that you understood and realized that the existence of some is unnecessary and put them out. Part of the job every ministry has, you have brought Velimir Ilic together several ministries, let it deal with capital investments, the arrival of investors. He's obviously not capable of it. You might be looking for Karic's help. And he deceives Serbian citizens that he is capable of doing something, because he himself has never produced anything in Serbia. Therefore, you would be better off through some concrete moves and the opening of new factories and the launch of production, showing that you want to improve the economic position in our country, and that your representatives, which I hope will no longer be in power in many municipalities and cities since September, because they have shown that they have not worked for the benefit of citizens, are no longer using their position where they are in power, in the municipality or city through donations and through loans, and are doing nothing to affirm local self-government and to help citizens in the legal sense of the word to serve citizens. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6276	I thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic. I apologize for the untimely permutation of veterans of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6277	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, most of the agenda of this extraordinary session, predict the formation of an agency, as an alienated centre of power, with different and too many powers, parallel parts, almost as important as the competent ministry. The 10th item of the agenda, as well as the 11th item of the agenda, has led to the provision of proposals for the establishment of certain agencies. At the previous point, the formation of two agencies, according to this agenda point, is the formation of three agencies and one centre. We in the SRS are, due to the essence of the formation of agencies, because of the accumulation of administrative workers, the increase in costs, both material and salaries of workers, against the formation of these agencies, and therefore we do not accept and understand the speech, or the attitude of Mr. Minister, that this is the case by the SRS MPs, when we criticise the formation of agencies, that it is demagogy. Even if demagogy is at stake, it is acceptable by the opposition, when it is well explained, and especially since it is not about demagogy when it comes to the agency's question, and also by the previous bill, because it is this energy agency that implements the energy law that will lead to our power system being completely collapsed, that the collapse will affect our system in terms of breaking the single energy company and creating certain conditions for other ino-communities to come to our natural wealth. I was under the impression that we in the SRS, especially you, Mr. Minister, have some sympathy for the way you perform for this speaker at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but after your criticism, which we consider unnecessary, we do not say that this has changed dramatically, but it has decreased significantly. In this bill, on the one hand, and if we accept the justification of forming an environmental agency, it remains an organ within the Ministry of Science and Environment, which is fine. On the other hand, the agency gets a legal personality, which we in the SRS think is wrong. It is not good that within one body of the State Administration there is a state body, or a special organisation with the property of a legal person, in addition to the authoritative powers of the competent ministry, and that there is another legal person within the Ministry, at least it is unusual. With the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, you shall convert the Agency for Foreign Investment and Promotion of Exports into a Special Organisation. You are transforming a mine-removing centre from the status of Serbian government service into a state body, a special organisation, and you are setting up an infrastructure development agency, local self-government, also with the status of a special organisation that needs to be formed by law, and all those with legal personality status, which means they perform independently in legal traffic within their affairs and powers. All these special organisations, three agencies and one centre, the bill raises to a higher level of their powers and independence, which entails the involvement of more administrative workers, more equipment, material costs and funds for employees' salaries, which will additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is already filled with severe torment. We understand that in the opposition, and especially you in the Serbian government, you know, since our economy is totally collapsed, that profitable well-being enterprises such as cements, sugars, tobacco industries, some for three euros by DOS in all variations have been sold out, and all of these agencies are additionally burdening our taxpayers. Since there is a huge crime, a financial and telecommunications lobby and an energy lobby, only people who are in close contact with those lobbyists remain. This takes care, according to us in the SRS, of the agencies and the people in them who are politically close to you and are members of your political parties, and all of this on the burden of public expenditure. On the other hand, people are left out of work, fired, in a working relationship without receiving income and wages or with minimal and insufficient to live their wages or wages, with late pension payments, especially agricultural, young people without perspective or, in one word, a lot of misery, poverty and despair. Mr. Minister, it is less important, from a fundamental point of view and importance, whether agencies are formed in accordance with the regulation on the General Secretariat and services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the opposite of our legal order and the Constitution, in particular as services of the Serbian Government, or formed as agencies in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as special organisations with legal personality status, as provided for by this law. According to us in the SRS, it is not good from both aspects, and for reasons that I have already stated: the accumulation of a large number of administrative workers, the separation of money for additional equipment, the material costs, the salaries of this increased number of administrative workers, and the increase of officials and bureaucracy, which goes naturally and normally with it. Instead, you should provide, as a regime, as a government, as a government of the Republic of Serbia, for citizens to live normally. That is rightly expected of every government. In multi-party, I seem to be able to say, and in a democratic society, the basic business of us in the opposition, now few of us in the SRS, is that we are criticising the government and we are asking you for weak points in the exercise of power, and even in the establishment of agencies, according to this bill, which we MPs in the SRS consider to be unreal and expensive. Instead of worrying about increasing the administration and the status of agencies on these occasions, look around you a little bit and you'll see hungry and hopeless people, you'll see people who are now, I believe you Mr. Minister heard, blocked the highway in part from Jagodina to Pojat, dissatisfied with your standard of living, dissatisfied with wages, dissatisfied with the announcement of the closure of the coal mine. It is, by some, not everyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the road to Europe. It is with you a path without hope and perspective for a large number of citizens. This way we won't get far, believe you who are in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6278	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that at the very least I was surprised by the explanation that Minister Zoran Lončar gave when this law was passed, because I say that this is the continuation of the government's programming promises that we chose in this Parliament a few months ago, and that there will be a public work that has not existed so far, in my opinion it is not enough. We've already received such promises once. Already here, some were drilling into their chests when the first Ministry Act was passed. It has been said that a lot will be changed, that from now on the government and ministers will respect parliament, that they will do so in a way that has not been done before. However, after a few months of work, we have been able, unfortunately, to repeat, to see that there is nothing of these promises. Where does the Minister's right to call his deputies in advance demagogues, to say in advance that everything we're going to talk about is the establishment of a demagogue agency? Where is the right of the minister to criticise the MPs, even before one of them came out to say one word about the law that is on the agenda today? It was yours, Mr. Minister, to come out here and explain the proposed solutions to the law, to try to provide the support of all MPs in this House. You don't have to worry only about supporting those who support the government. Ideally, you would succeed all MPs from all MPs' groups to convince that this law is good, that this law will bring good to the citizens and that all MPs are voting for this law. Also, he was talking about the summer break, which we'll probably have. I simply wondered if it was Mr. Loncar, as the minister who explained the last law on the agenda of this extraordinary session, decided to give this parliament a break. A break, of course, should not be given to parliament by the minister, although it can be said that this is the case now. This parliament, the biggest problem of parliament, has so far been working only on government orders, the government has controlled parliament, instead of parliament controlling the government. All the laws we had were under emergency procedure, although the reasons for urgency for many of them did not exist and went exclusively to the agenda those laws proposed by the Government. The laws proposed by parliamentary parties, i.e. individual MPs, contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, chats by drawers. It's a real mirror of this government and this government. You promised, when you came to these positions, that you would change your attitude towards parliament, that you would come and explain your laws, but that there would be laws on the parliament's agenda to be passed by opposition parties. If you think you have a clue, you go out for this pay phone and say what you think. [[You don't know shit.]] I'm saying what I think. Furthermore, as far as the minister's allegations that the government and the ministry of which he is headed, i.e. the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, decided to give parliament a chance to control the work of these agencies, I cannot agree with that. What is the essence of parliamentaryism is exactly the opposite. We, as MPs and as parliament, unfortunately, have given you the opportunity to establish these agencies, and control, both over you and these agencies, must be done by parliament. Parliament is older than any government. I'm sure we'll prove it to you in the next period. As far as the agencies themselves are concerned, whose formation is proposed, there are many things that are not regulated. The number of agencies is not regulated, who will manage these agencies is not regulated, what they will look like functionally-systemically. It's not specified what the organs of these agencies will be. Whether this will later be regulated by government regulations. Who will bring the statutes of these agencies. Whether there will be a government obligation to give consent eventually to them. What's very important - what's going to be business. Who will provide the funds for the work of these agencies. Whether we will continue to expect funds from abroad for the work of the agencies, because it seems to be the only thing we can get from abroad lately – money for the establishment of agencies. Yes, for consumption. We'll ever get something to manufacture. The question is, what will happen to the employees of these agencies? Are they going to move to newly formed agencies or not? Is this the only way to deal with the people who were brought into the agency from the previous government? There's been a lot of criticism on the agency's work, on the formation of agencies. Now you're saying that it's practically just formal criticism, that you've both agreed with the work of agencies and with the formation, but that only in fact you disagreed with that the agencies were formed by regulations. Is that the agencies, like the government's Information Bureau, which was formed by the Regulation, was the only thing wrong with that agency being formed under the regulation. Was that agency doing all right? Is that what you want? First of all, just a few months ago, you spoke bitterly about agencies. We thought after that we wouldn't get a chance, at least for some time, to meet with the agencies. Instead, there was a real hyperproduction of agencies. The agencies started to do nothing like mushrooms after the rain, and this previous energy law even set up two agencies, so we just ask ourselves, where's the end of it? Only the ministries haven't received the ministry agency yet. The question arises -- if it's such a good organisational form, if so much good is going to bring in all areas of social life, then why didn't you reserve the right to set up some agency that would deal with the ministries, and thus help yourself and the citizens of this country. What we haven't heard in the sake of this law, for God's sake, is that the adoption of this law is a condition for entering Europe. Whether or not it - I don't know. We may have met all the conditions with this previous law. You told us and then that we're safely entering Europe now, only you can't tell us exactly when we're going to get in. The new government abolished the agency regulation that did not start work, such as the agency for improving management, social care agencies, improving health care, improving river traffic, rural development agencies, as well as a number of agencies that have started to operate, but whose jobs, regulations, have already been prescribed in part or in general, have already been contained in the work of some ministries. It is the Agency for the Development of Infrastructure of Local Self-Government, Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, Development of Culture, etc. The local self-government infrastructure development agency itself is established as a special organisation with legal personality status. The development agency's work has been expanded against the work of the same-name agency, which was established by a regulation as a government service, and what this agency needs to provide are the conditions for finding financial resources for municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade to promote the development and improvement of their infrastructure. These funds for local infrastructure development should come from international organisations, donations and loans. When it comes to donations and loans, the question arises why is there a need for a mediator between these foreign donors and end-users, who should be units of local self-government. We know how these jobs usually end. We know that about a third of all donations go to various consulting services, various companies, and if now a third of these funds go to consulting, if one part goes to various commissions, what will remain to those local self-governments at all. And local self-government, in a few months or a year, will start paying off those loans. The production is still gone. Whether or not they'll be able to pay for it in the first place. It's a very important question whether donations will come at all. We're witnessing that in the last period donations are getting weaker and weaker, they're getting smaller. It's been a honeymoon. It was a long time ago when this country was in some enthusiasm, when we were Europe's favorites, when we were given loans, it was promised some 6.5 billion, much more than it had ever been, but even if it had not been properly used, because the effects are not seen at all. Article 15 provides for the establishment of the Ministry of Education and Sports to exclude the adoption of the basics of the programme and work for pre-school education and education, as well as the adoption of curricula and programmes for primary and secondary education. The position of the Serbian Radical Party... (Glass - that law has passed. ) Yes, I know he passed, but the position of the SRS and then he was to leave this in the works of the Ministry of Education and Sports. Unfortunately, what has already been implemented by the law on education has already been entrusted to some agencies in their work, and the question is, how far is this going to go? Speaking of government control, I will remind Mr. Lonchar and the fact that I am in accordance with Article 193. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Minister Loncaru, asked three parliamentary questions as early as May 18th, and then three others on May 19th. I didn't get the answer, despite all the stories of the government's transparency, although the government is truly transparent for an increasing number of citizens, day by day. Article 195. The Rules of Procedure say that, exceptionally, only if certain facts need to be established, for which determination takes longer or more complex analysis, the time limit for answering the parliamentary question may be extended but no more than 30 days. However, I tried to formulate the questions to Mr. potter clearly and precisely, so that he didn't really have a problem answering them. I'll read you just one thing - whether the special record of voters abroad was established in accordance with the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, "The Official Messenger", No. 35/2000 and 18/2004, and the Instructions on how to update the voter lists. Is there a simpler question for the minister than to ask - Mr. Minister, did you respect the law, and did you follow the Instructions on the update of the voter lists? Especially given that Mr Loncar is a member of RIK, and all of his efforts in the previous period, while he was not a minister, until he was in power, to update the electoral lists and to address this election issue at all. Why did the minister not respond, I suppose the answer is clear, because the law is not respected or because the Manual on how to update the voter lists is not respected. Please, Mr. Minister, since you haven't responded in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the deadline has been 30 days, but the fact that you're not free of any obligation to answer. So answer better now, better late than not to answer at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6280	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. He's got the word of Minister Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6281	Ladies and gentlemen, with apologies for telling you about a matter that is not the subject of today's agenda, but the duty of my principled relationship with the Members of the People's Parliament requires me to tell you after this presentation on the parliamentary issue that so far, by all the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, I have received only one question from the MP, Mr Nemanje Sarovic, on 19 May. I am not saying that the MP mentioned may not have asked any more questions. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government has arrived, certified by the seal, only one letter, and not only in accordance with the 30-day deadline set by the above-mentioned member of the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but before that, within seven days, Mr Nemanja Sarovic not only received an answer to his question, why no special voter's record was established for voting abroad, writtenly. Since MP Nemanja Sarovic and I, as you had the opportunity to hear, were members of the RIK, I was permanent, and he expanded, in front of one of the former presidential candidates, had several times at the RIK meetings on the issue, as a member of the RIK, to give him several answers. This time, I am taking the opportunity to inform you that a special record of the voters' vote abroad has been established by my ministry in full, in a legal manner and within the deadline. However, if the law had been known to MP Nemanja Sarovic at the moment of submitting the legislative question to MP Nemanja Sarovic, as well as to the votes of the party's representative from where the MP was encouraged, then he would have known that in these elections a special record of voters abroad, led by this ministry, as provided for in Article 16 of the Amendment and the addition of the Law on People's MPs, as it also provides for the instructions for the implementation of that law, which the RIK adopted unanimously for these previous presidential elections, will be applied to vote by voters abroad for the second time. They will vote on the basis of a special record which, I say once again, has been established in time and is located in the ministry. Representatives of the OSCE mission, on the basis of numerous complaints from MP Sarovic at the RIK sessions, came, had the opportunity to make sure of its existence. It has not been voted, but has already been voted on on the basis of voter lists, which were jointly drawn up by the Foreign Ministry and the RIK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6282	I thank Minister Zoran Lonchar for the explanation, although the question and answer is beyond the agenda, but of course the Assembly sometimes serves to clarify other issues. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6283	Article 193 has been injured, which says the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or to a government within their jurisdiction. The truth is, I have to say that they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6284	Let me get this straight. When we want to talk exactly about the Rules of Procedure. I've allowed you to be correct, to clarify the question, but if you want to, please read to the end that article, when it has the right to ask a question, at which session. Article 164: "During the extraordinary session, parliamentary questions may be asked at the National Assembly session, only if the motion for an extraordinary session provided for in its request. "Therefore, of course the question has been asked in your discussion, the minister answered, and if you have any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6285	I would ask you, Mr. Angelkovic, to reset time first, because during your presentation, it's already been a minute. Second of all, you didn't listen to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6286	Mr. Sarovic, let me get this straight. Please, MP Sarovic, your time will not be denied, you have always used time here, and it is not disputed. Just so we're clear, what part of the Rules of Procedure are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Please say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6287	I really don't know, Mr. Angelkovic, why you don't have patience. I've already said I'm advertising an injury to Article 193. So I know when I have the right to ask a parliamentary question, but you have to understand that I'm not asking this opportunity. I asked the MP questions in May of the month. It's been over two months. I now claim that my right has been violated in such a way that I have not received an answer within 30 days, as I should have been given in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking a parliamentary question right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6288	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6289	That I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6290	Mr. Sarovic, let me get this straight. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that Minister Zoran Loncar hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6291	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6292	What are you saying? That the Parliament hurt the Rules of Procedure that you didn't get an answer in 30 days? Please, clear up what you want. Article 193 treats you when you have the right to submit a parliamentary question and when you need an answer. That's not controversial. Just to be precise and respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6293	Listen to me, Mr. Angelkovic. Article 96. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, paragraph 3, says that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, to quote and explain what the infringement is. By being able to speak for the longest three minutes, which doesn't account for the time needed to quote. You do not allow me to explain that in my opinion the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but you want to say in advance whether or not the injury exists. I also allow that you may be a better lawyer than I am, so that I think there is an injury, until the injury actually exists. Let me explain, in accordance with the rights that I have under my Rules of Procedure, that I think the Rules of Procedure have been violated, and after that, you will have the opportunity to provide an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6294	You've been talking for four minutes. Look how tolerated I am, but you can't explain what you want. That's the problem, Mr. Sarovic, finally explain what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6295	We've come to the point. On the basis of Article 193. I referred the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to Mr Zoran Lonchar on May 19th, and there is clear evidence of that. These are congregation seals. The claim that only one question is not true. Furthermore, as regards the special record of voters abroad, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs provides for the ministry's obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6296	Mr. Sarovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6297	I end up with one sentence. To me, this relationship with the congregation's majority, headed by Minister Lonchar, is a sufficient answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6298	Mr Sarovic, paragraph 6 of Article 193, writes very precisely – the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks the parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. You have referred to the competent authority, and this has nothing to do with today's meeting of the Assembly, it is not on the agenda, nor was it possible to open the topic of parliamentary issues here. You put them through the discussion, the minister answered, and I think it should have been over. I think the Parliament and the public are aware that you tried to use this time past the Rules of Procedure, but that's already your business. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. Just tell me on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6299	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99. The article reads, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Of course, there's something else I want to say. What's, Tomo, funny? I'm funny to you? You, Tomo, are funny to the entire congregation, so nobody here cares about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6300	Please let us address one another in a dignified way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6301	I'm just replicating. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all afternoon Mr. Sarovic has been harassing the Serbian Parliament and citizens. Of course, during the afternoon, everyone was worried about why the work was continuing. The work is being extended precisely because of you and your conduct in this congregation. You've been talking here all the time about the poor, the citizens of Serbia who are threatened, and you've been wondering why we're prolonging the work. Because you want your obstructions in the Assembly to extend another 10, 15 days, and you know how much a congregation meeting costs. You do not give up on a single living room, nor are you left behind; you are the first in that tiller up there. I want to say that Mr. Sarovic is a young boy and certainly, since the president is sitting here, he needs to be proved. I understand that, but I don't understand you harassing the MPs and the citizens of Serbia at 23.30 p.m. You insulted the government, you insult the MPs, but I must tell you about this government. This government has just reached an agreement with the Italian Fiat today and written off 72% of the debt that was made during your reign. Since Mr. Nikolic is laughing sweetly, and I don't know why, I didn't say anything ugly, I just want to say one more thing. During the aggression of the SRS, she was high-ranking. She had a lot of ministerial posts. You spoke in a very undiplomatic way about Europe, diplomats, representatives of European countries. It cost us a subsequent bombing. Now you've been talking and insulting Europe tonight...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6302	Mr. Vucicevic, I ask you, since you resent another to delay the discussion, that you too respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6303	I resent that, and the right to tell you I resent you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6304	Mr. Vucicevic, you have the right to blame whoever you want, just please respect the Rules of Procedure and speak three minutes in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6305	Just to ask the President of the Assembly not to allow Mr. Sarovic to come out here five times and harass the National Assembly and the People's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6306	I ask everyone that we have understanding and that we really respect the Rules of Procedure, and how much we can be tolerated in that I think we're all going to contribute. The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and for discussion to prepare MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the only minister who, in the current composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has confessed here, explaining this bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, that agencies will spend citizens' money. All the ministers who have defended the establishment of individual agencies have said that it will be made out of donations, that in this way it will be established, that the donations will cover their work, said they will finance themselves from their incomes, but you are honest and you say what concerns all agencies. Citizens will finance these agencies with their own money, which are now receiving legal form, and have been established by certain regulations, i.e. against the law. You also said that now we MPs will be able to control the work of the agencies, which is good, but given their number, I doubt that one MP, who would like to control the work of the agencies, would have enough time. If he did that, went away, waited eight days for the reception, nothing else would be able to work in his life to get information about the functioning and work of some agencies. However, when it comes to the legal framework for these agencies which remain and which have been established by various regulations, the question arises as to why those legal frameworks have even arisen, why they have not been abolished if there was a possibility, which is, and in addition, the results that these agencies have achieved during their existence, even if they were in an illegal manner and against the constitution, have been achieved. That I don't especially explain individual agencies. The only agency that had some results was a local self-government infrastructure development agency, which had certain donations from abroad, particularly some NGOs. She has succeeded in a large number of municipalities in Serbia mainly to renovate primary or secondary schools, and possibly do some travel infrastructures, plumbing, sewers, etc. Since I have no intention of talking for a long time, I'll only tell you as someone who's a high school tech ballistician, that the change in the name of the mine-removing center is now a demining centre, that both of them are completely wrong from the professional point of view. I don't know who suggested it. You should have consulted someone. Namely, the centre was founded primarily to remove explosive and other means of killing that remained or lagged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia after the country's criminal NATO bombing, and since only one form of murder is mined, killings and non-mining cluster bombs are also various non-mining grenades, non-mining aircraft bombs. And demining is a term that applies mainly to military exercises and implies demining the terrain for which there is already a scheme in which it is mined and going to remove these mines, so if you've already changed the name, in my opinion the most correct name for this center should be the detection and removal center, because we don't know where they are, we should first discover, so the center for detecting and removing explosive and other means of killing, which would include mines and all the other means of killing that remain. I would like this opportunity to draw attention to the MPs. I think very little, among those who talked about it, was the focus of Article 2 and 3 which concerns Article 7 and Article 11 of the existing Ministry Act. Namely, one part of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services is transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and this is the part relating to the control of the quality of industrial and food products, the quality of food products, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, mineral waters, ethanol, tobacco and tobacco products. The fact that now that it has been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture has been extended to imports of fruit juices, fruit nectars, fruit juices powdered and so on. My opinion is, and I am sure that it is relevant, that this was only done because the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Industry from G17 plus and that the control of these products had so far belonged to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services. And we know earlier, when we passed some laws, and they applied to taxes and excises, and where Mladjan Dinkic stood, that it was quite defined to introduce taxes on fruit juices, nectars, concentrates, juices and so on. You from the SPO and the NS can criticise the SRS, but it would be better to take care of how certain responsibilities of your Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic are slowly transferred to the ministries headed by G17 Plus ministers. That's what I noticed, because there's no other reason, that some of the responsibilities from one ministry are being transferred to another, if the Department of Commerce already has prepared instruments and everything else he needs to control the quality, except this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6308	The word is by MP Sreto Peric, and for discussion to prepare MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the MPs of the SRS Group are deeply disappointed by your inappropriate behaviour. The MPs of the SRS had the opportunity to see you at the previous sessions of this assembly, and I think you were very correct, and that you had the legislative proposals that should have been explained in a quality way and did not insult the MPs of any of the MPs. What Mr., MP Nemanja Sarovic said, you should make an effort, if possible, that as many parliamentary groups as possible, including the SRS parliamentary group, to support your law, but in the beginning you defined yourself to attack the SRS parliamentary group, although you had no valid reason. I can understand if you were in some pleasant environment before the beginning of this session or before you arrived, what, a living soul, I totally understand, is the only way we can forgive it, and everything else is inappropriate. I can freely tell the citizens of Serbia, that is, to meet our public that tonight is day "d". Which is why, which is why Minister Loncar said, because tomorrow we'll start living much better, so you said, some agencies that we haven't had will be established, we'll be able to control them. But it's not like that in practice, as a MP, I had the need to address certain ministries and, believe me, that I couldn't come so easily, I didn't intend to control it, but as an MP, I took advantage of it. At one point you said, explaining, that three agencies aren't much, and maybe they aren't. You said that in certain countries there are 300 agencies, and that may be good, and they may work, perhaps citizens of those countries have great benefits from agencies. We had a privatisation agency, and I don't think we had much use for it. I am not saying that some citizens of Serbia or some of the people in the business did not benefit from the agency, but Serbia and a large majority of Serbian citizens certainly did not benefit from such an agency. Furthermore, this law does not make it perfectly clear which authorities will be in those agencies, which authorities will manage and how these agencies will be financed, but you have been honest and you have admitted that this will be financed, of course, from the funds that will separate Serbian citizens, and that is quite logical, provided that these agencies are carrying out certain tasks of benefiting citizens. I must say that Nemanja Sarovic may have the need to prove herself to the deputy president of the SRS, but I have the feeling that one MP has the intention to prove himself before his party president, who is the minister of three or four ministries, so that this one piece of the ministry can be cut off from him, so that he can become a minister. It has been shown that this MP, I guess because the parliamentary group does not allow to discuss some of the bill's proposals, is taking advantage of the opportunity to speak in replicas, and then bring out and what is and what is not, because he insists that this assembly is doing as effectively as possible, and that the citizens of Serbia know that the work of the National Assembly is extended because of the rarely when we start on time with work. If the Assembly is scheduled for 10 hours, we begin at 12.00 hours. I think it's one of the reasons why you stay this long in the night. This time MPs who voted to vote extended, well, there are 85 out of 126 MPs, as far as there was, and that's good progress. As regards the agencies themselves proposed in this law, the infrastructure development agency and local self-government, I am of the opinion that, if possible, donation funds can be directly directed to local self-governments, which could be applied to. I don't know if Mr. Secretary didn't think he needed a body to infiltrate and maybe send only those local self-governments that his party will take in September's election. Foreign Investment Agency and Export Promotion. I am afraid that this agency will not be tasked with issuing some export licences, which would especially burden our economic operators specifically preparing for the import or export of technology, machinery and equipment. When you said, Minister, that we should provide funds for our exporters, I don't only know if you were at the rally, or whether you participated in the work and received representatives of the raspberries producer, who were in front of the government a few days ago, that you would help, given that this agency is somewhere near your ministry. So much for those agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6310	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Replica, Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6311	Gentlemen, I am a member of New Serbia, and New Serbia is a democratic party and I do not need to prove myself to Velimir Ilic, nor do I intend to be in the Ministry of Capital Investments. If someone needs to prove themselves, they need to live, and I think I've proven myself in life. So, what I just went out for, I thought there was really no reason why one guy would be harassing us all afternoon, we all have some obligations here, we are MPs, and we are obliged to be in this assembly, working in the interest of the citizens, but in the interest of the citizens, we need to be operational and not let one young boy harass us all afternoon, proving something that just can't be proved. I want to say once again that we are working here in the interests of Serbian citizens, and it is true that our interest is here from this pay phone, and that we are building the fate of Serbian citizens, and we are defining Serbia's future from this pay phone, but that does not mean that we should harass all the MPs and citizens of Serbia who are watching this. I believe Mr. Sarovic is a young boy and he likes to laugh, but that smile from this pay phone is rather cynical, and so it seems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6312	I really ask those who think they're helping the congregation not to get back at her. First, it is unacceptable for MPs to be treated like boys. There's no one here as a boy, but as a MP. Please, young man, no matter what political parties he's from, when he's an MP here, he's a national MP and I ask that we all treat the MP that way. What does it mean to be half-partners? That's out of the question. So I ask that we treat the MPs with respect. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that after me there are no more applications for discussion, of course, the final word will be given by the head of our parliamentary group, Deputy President of the SRS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, but I promise you, I will not use all the 43 minutes we have left. I'll try to be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days, day after day, we adopt laws, and one of the main remarks of the SRS was the formation of agencies under these laws. We had laws proposed by Minister Dinkic -- the agency formed, we had laws before that -- the agency formed. Today we had the opportunity to form two agencies, and we just thought no more, complete the DSS needs, come the law on amendments to the Ministry Act, and here are the two agencies and one demining centre. It's the same essence. Bureaucracies in this country, and even so, when you bring in one bureaucrat, he immediately makes room for another, then the two of them make a place for the new two, etc. The bureaucracy has always been the cancer of every institution and state in general. I have to say that this government said it would break up with the agencies, I think the nine agencies immediately shut down, and now we've formed three times nine. I expected from the local self-government minister that the first task that will end will be to bring a single voter list, to allow Serbian citizens to vote and not be robbed. I expected to prevent one voter from enrolling in 16 municipalities, and that is what is done, and that Serbia finally gets a single voter list. I expected the Minister for Local Self-Government to pay a little more attention to the development of local self-government, but not through an agency that will develop the infrastructure of local self-government and carry out professional tasks related to promoting development and improving the infrastructure of local self-government units (municipalities, cities, and the city of Belgrade) by directly connecting banks, financial organisations, representatives of the competent authorities of other states, cities, etc. And he says domestic banks. What domestic banks when Minister Dinkic, as soon as he got the chance, suffocated all domestic banks? However, at first he entered with socks and kalashnikovs, and then he entered with the law into those banks; mostly, domestic banks are no more. Mr. Minister, the authorities of local self-government are quite capable, or if they are unable, then to resign, the people come out and choose the new authorities of local self-government, so others are capable. Everything the agency needs to do to them, to do it alone. It would be better if as a minister, and as your ministry, you helped in this, not to form an agency that will have a legal personality and a jury account, and would be a much greater burden on the citizens of Serbia. About this foreign investment agency, for export promotion, etc., I don't want to talk, but the demining centre... Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the last time air bombs were removed from the Chinese embassy, announced funds for public information or misinformation, that there is only more in Batajnica at one location of the plane bomb, that mines are no longer available, and that Serbian citizens can easily and freely live. In doing so, it was done by military institute experts. I wonder -- what's the mine action centre going to do in Serbia, unless you think you're starting a new war where you're going to be mined, or you think you're sending that mine action centre to Iraq or Afghanistan, and you're demining it there. The government informs us by means of information that mines are gone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time you stopped the citizens of Serbia and our MPs from burdening them with such bill proposals. I don't know what after this law on amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry of Serbia will get. I know what many of you will get, and I know what many of your party members will get in the field.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6314	I thank Parliamentarian Momir Markovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used the right set out in Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude a search in particular, I ask if the motionary's representative, Minister Zoran Loncar, wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6315	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respecting the fact that it's five minutes before midnight, allow me just a few words. First of all, to take the opportunity to thank all the MPs for their very useful suggestions on how the government should organise a way to exercise its own power during its term of office. We had the opportunity to hear the views of the MPs, representatives of some former governments who had experience in it, and certainly their views were very valuable. Of course, it is the autonomous right of every government, as we have already had opportunities from this pay phone tonight to hear, to decide on its own how it will be organised. Many suggestions and suggestions will be an opportunity to use that time when the numerous speakers who went out tonight are in a position to organise their own government. This government believes that the best, most rational, most efficient way of organising my own, as I have presented here tonight, defending this law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. In addition to this gratitude, I have to take the opportunity to apologize to some MPs who didn't get me very well in my opening statement. Here, not knowing who would speak after me in the assembly debate, hypothetically I just said, and apparently I was right, that the biggest object of the dispute would be the agencies, and I called for it not to be done for demagogue and cheap political but professional reasons. Whether it offended someone or not, if he recognized himself in it, I'm really sorry. Whether tonight's debate on the draft of this law was professional or demagogue, I will not judge it. The best court, of course, will give the citizens who are watching us this late tonight. To answer only two or three short questions. It has been said that one law is not against the constitution until the Constitutional Court makes a decision on it. Indeed, that's a logical attitude. But to someone who belongs to the profession, to someone who deals with opposition policy, I think it belongs to the right to say that an act of the executive government, such as the regulation of the previous government, is anti-constitutional, because the Constitution says that ministries and special organisations are educated not by a sublegal act, but by law. That's when I said it, and with all the capacity of my profession and political authority and today, I say. Also, is there any objection that could be heard tonight from this pay phone, that the fact that this law does not regulate the internal organisation, that it is logically against the constitution, when the speaker said that only one whose constitutionality, or unconstitution, has confirmed its decision, is the Constitutional Court. The question has also been raised here whether there are funds for funding agencies as special organizations. Of course there are. The questioner has already answered, on the basis of the fact that the reasoning of the law states that the functioning of the application of this law does not require additional budgetary resources, but because these agencies have existed before, they are also in force in the Budget Act and the budget envisioned. It should be said that it is true, but also that the fact that this government, by adopting this law, put out force, of 13 agencies less than three, is 10 agencies and one communications bureau. Some of the budgets allocated by citizens were also foreseen for them. This law, for that reason, leads to a more rational, economical administration. Thus, this law reduces budget funding for agencies. Why the agency and why not the agency? Would the problem be solved if this government, instead of the term "agency", had used the term, as they once did, which does not make any country in its administrative organisations, bodies, committees, archives, museums, vaults. For me, it is not an important name, it is an important legal position, whether it is prescribed by the Constitution in a valid way and whether there is a possibility of control. In the case of these agencies, there are. The name of the neck does not change, and it is within the scope of the term that some Members of the people were offended tonight. Once again, I thank you and hope that in the voting day you will support such a proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-22-0.u6316	I would like to thank the promoter, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby set 23 July 2004 at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all items of the session's agenda of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank all MPs for their contribution to the conclusion of the debate on all points of the agenda.
