ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6317	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your patience while we have removed all technical matters. We are continuing the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 188 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6318	Given the great importance of ratification of the London Agreement with the London Trustees Club, which is to be adopted within the Eighth Extraordinary Session, according to a proposal of a number of MPs and since we do not have too much for that time, I would suggest that we hold a vote on all points of the Sixth Extraordinary Session after 18.00 hours today, so that we can proceed immediately to the eighth extraordinary session, and that we finish this work in one drink.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6319	Mr. Aligrudic, are you suggesting something special for that session?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6320	The only thing that could possibly have happened, given that a group of MPs have submitted a request, would have been my proposal, not to consider the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Securities Committee, because it is a personal issue that can cause the debate, and given the importance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, proposed by a group of MPs, I do not think that this would be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6321	We vote to extend the work of the Sixth Session and to discuss two of the three points of the agenda after its completion. I ask the MPs to vote. For 135, they did not vote three out of 138 MPs. I find the proposal accepted. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragan Vuksanovic, Marko Djurisic, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Dusan Mrvos, Milena Milosevic, Bosko Ristić, Slobodan Vuković, Gordana Comić, Goran Knezevic, Sava Urosevic, Goran Paunović and Vladimir Jovanovic. Since the National Assembly has completed reviewing all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PURPOSE PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on bankruptcy proceedings in principle. Two, a total of 139 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Jovan Palalic withdrew amendments he submitted to the members of 185 and 186. Law proposals, and MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milomir Minic, in writing, withdrew all amendments to the bill. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 97, with 17 abstentions, did not vote seven, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, abstention 14 did not vote seven, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 17 abstentions, six out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 97, the 16 abstentions, four of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 18 abstentions, four of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions, 17 were not voted four, out of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 19. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 16 abstentions, six of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment with the correction legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 16 abstentions, did not vote seven, out of 138 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 94, with 20 abstentions, three of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Todorovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 97, with 18 abstentions, three of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, with 17 abstentions, five of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 74th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, with 17 abstentions, three of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, with 15 abstentions, six of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 92. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 97, abstentioned 18, two of the 139 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 102. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 95, with 19 abstentions, four of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 116. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 97, with 16 abstentions, seven of the 138 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill on bankruptcy proceedings in general. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on bankruptcy proceedings. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda : - Proposal for AGENCY OF AGENCY FOR LICENCE OF PURPOSE GOVERNMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers in principle. For 136, against one, he did not vote one out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The MPs Milomir Minić, Zarko Obradovic and Jovan Todorovic, and MP Veroljub Arsic, submitted together to the 1st amendment, in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 97, abstentioned 18, three of the 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 118, with 15 abstentions, six of the 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions, 18 were not voted by four, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, with 17 abstentions, five out of 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 17 abstentions, six out of 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Jovan Todorovic and Milomir Minić and National MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 98, abstentions 16, three of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 17 abstentions, did not vote seven out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 117 abstentions, two of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 115, with 16 abstentions, six of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 16 abstentions, did not vote seven out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, with 17 abstentions, two of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milomir Minić and Zarko Obradovic and MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 96, abstentioned 18, two of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 18 abstentions, four of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 18 abstentions, five out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 16 abstentions, five out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, in general. For 138, of the 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, unanimously. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Social Protection and Security of Social Security of Citizens Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act, in principle. For 138, of the 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions, 18 were not voted by two, of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Rajko Baralic and Milan Jankovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 95, with 15 abstentions, one of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions 15, five out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 92, with 19 abstentions, five out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 18 abstentions, six out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 16 abstentions, seven out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, with 14 abstentions, did not vote 16, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that a new member of the 9a be added after article 9. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggest that this amendment, with correction, is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 16 abstentions, six out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, with 15 abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 95, with 14 abstentions, 10 of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, with 16 abstentions, five out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 17 abstentions, nine out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 16 abstentions, nine out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 15 abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 13 abstentions, not 11 votes, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 11 abstentions, 12 out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 33. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 15 abstentions, nine out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, abstention 14, not 12, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the social protection laws and ensuring the social security of citizens in general. For 133, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Social Protection and Social Security of Citizens. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE IRSECTION ON THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on value added tax, in principle. For 134, four out of 138 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Veroljub Stevanovic, written on the way, withdrew the amendments he submitted to the article. 24, 28, 29th Amendment, which proposed that a new Article 29a and Articles 52 and 59 be added after Article 29. It's a bill of law. I remind you that it has been established that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the member of the 24th National MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 15 abstentions, not nine out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 13 abstentions, not 11 votes, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, abstention 14, not seven, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, abstention 14, not eight, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 16 abstentions, not seven votes, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, with 16 abstentions, eight of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 93, with 15 abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, with 16 abstentions, 12 out of 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 130, it did not vote five out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 94, with 14 abstentions, did not vote seven out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, with 16 abstentions, eight of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 15 abstentions, not 10 votes, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, with 12 abstentions, 15 of the 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic to article 33. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstentions, 11, not 17 votes, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 14 abstentions, 12 out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, versus 108, the two abstentions, did not vote 16, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, with 13 abstentions, 14 out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstentions 14, not 14 votes, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, with 14 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 107, with 15 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Bogdanovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The Government's representative and the Financial Committee adopted this amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by a proposing representative agreed by the applicant. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 111 abstentions 13, it was not 11 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on value added tax in general. For 129, seven, a total of 136 MPs, did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on value added tax. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Tax Taxation Law Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, in principle. For 128, it did not vote nine, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that this amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 16 abstentions, six out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act in general. The 134 were not voted by three, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE TaxES ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNDERTAKING Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company profit tax law, in principle. Please, just a minute for the professional service to complete the system. Before we continue to check if the system works, if we have a quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I understand 134 MPs are present in the O.R. and we can continue the vote. We stopped at the beginning of the sixth agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company profit tax law, in principle. For 133, they did not vote two, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that by written amendment, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic was withdrawn to members 18, 26, 27 and 31 and MP Nenad Bogdanovic to members 25, 30 and 34. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 99, with 16 abstentions, one of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 15 abstentions, six out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 101, with 16 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 93, with 15 abstentions, it was not 13 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 16 abstentions, not eight, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 98, abstentioned 16, four of the 137 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions, 17 were not voted by three, of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 108, with 14 abstentions, it was not 13 out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment in the same text, MPs Jovan Todorovic and MP Branislav Rankic submitted. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 93, with 13 abstentions, it did not vote 13, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 98, with 13 abstentions, eight of the 137 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 17 abstentions, six out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 16 abstentions, not eight, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 97, with 16 abstentions, five out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 38th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 15 abstentions, not 10 votes, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 15 abstentions, nine out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, with 15 abstentions, did not vote 16, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 47th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 14 abstentions, 12 out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 95, with 14 abstentions, it was not 11 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 51st amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, abstention 14, not seven, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax taken in general. For 132, five of the 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a CONSUMING SOCIAL CERTIFICATE LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on contributions to compulsory social security in principle. For 131 against one, it did not vote five out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision by amendment. I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: written through Meho Omerovic on Article 8, and during the search of the Bills in particular Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović on the members 6th and 23rd, and Zoran Angelkovic on article 25, which he submitted along with MP Tom Busetic. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 85, it did not vote seven out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojla Bukvic and Radovan Teodorovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 86, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radojla Bukvic and Radovan Teodorovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 97, six out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 99, abstentioned 14, seven of the 138 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Milan Jankovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 82, four of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Miloja Savic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, v. 92, abstention 14, five out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, Sredoje Mihajlov, submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 88 abstentions, 38 did not vote 8 out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 14th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 111, there was no vote of 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 81, abstentioned 12, did not vote 7, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 106, abstentioned 15, it did not vote 13, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 81, with 14 abstentions, there was no vote of 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not adopted these amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 80, there was no vote of 8 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6322	Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 76, abstentions nine, 47 of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 75th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 76th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 77th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 78th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the draft law on contributions to mandatory social security, in general. For 129, five of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on contributions to compulsory social security. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE GAMES OF HAPPY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on gambling to the vote. Four out of 135 MPs voted for 131. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Zoran Angelkovic, written on July 8, 2004, withdrew the amendment to Article 22 and the amendment to Article 97. It's a bill of law. Also, MP Zoran Angelkovic, written on July 15, 2004, withdrew the amendment to Article 40, amendment to Article 43, amendment to Article 47, amendment to Article 54, amendment to Article 98, amendment to Article 101, amendment to Article 103 and amendment to Article 104, which he submitted on 1 July 2004. Also, MP Zoran Angelkovic, written on July 23rd 2004, withdrew all amendments he submitted to the draft laws on gambling, except for amendments submitted to Article 2, 49 and Article 53. A bill of law, which the government has accepted. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure, rejected MP Zoran Angelkovic's amendment to article 100. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the MPs of Zoran Angelkovic to Articles 2, 49 and 53; Vladimir Homan to Articles 68, 69, 80, 81 and 101 with the correction and Veroljub Stevanović to Article 5 above Articles 17 and to Article 18. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 115, four out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 108, five of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 70th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 110, five of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113 abstentions 16, four out of 134 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 108, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 85th Amendment were submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 104, nine of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 108, nine of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 105th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. A representative of the Government and the Financial Committee suggest that this amendment be not accepted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 111, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on gambling in general. For 128, it did not vote four out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on gambling. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on value added tax, in principle. For 112, against 14, the abstention one, did not vote five, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs, by written means, Dobrica Jankovic and Cedomir Petkovic to Article 46. Zoran Mićovic at Article 57, paragraph 2; at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee of Živodarka Dacin on Articles 7, 11, 48, 66, 75, 88, 108, 118, 129 and 141; Dobrica Janković and Cedomir Petković on Articles 14, 15 and 35; Dragoslav Milkovic on Article 26 and Zoran Mićović on Articles 57 and 79, and during the search of the Law proposal in particular Goran Ilic on Article 70. At the same time, we were given by MP Zoran Micovic to withdraw all amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, two abstentions, five out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter II above Articles 2 and 2. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with nine abstentions, there were no votes of eight, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milivova Vukovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 abstentions, nine were not voted 11 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 10 abstentions, not seven votes, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 11 abstentions, seven out of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 92, with three abstentions, did not vote 10, out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Before we go to the vote on this amendment, I'm taking a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6323	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. I have to ask you, next time I'll also interrupt the session when I see the phone machines as they serve to photograph. I'm sorry I had to do that. We're continuing our work. Please continue to determine if we have a voting quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I understand that by applying the electronic system, we have determined that 128 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we can continue our work. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119 abstentions nine, not one, 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, with nine abstentions, a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Masic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 7a and 7b be added after Article 7. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, with 11 abstentions, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, with 12 abstentions, three of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, abstentions 14, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, with 13 abstentions, two out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions 14, three of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 11 abstentions, there were no votes of eight, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 15 abstentions, they did not vote four out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 15 abstentions, three out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, with 13 abstentions, ten out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 15 abstentions, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 14 abstentions, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstentions, 11, not 13 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions 15, one of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 14 abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Health and Family Committee proposes that this amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 91, with 16 abstentions, four of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 15 abstentions, not seven votes, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 17 abstentions, five out of 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 16 abstentions, four out of 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 118, with 13 abstentions, three of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dobrica Jankovic and Cedomir Petkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 99, two abstentions, were not voted by two, of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 17 abstentions, six out of 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 17 abstentions, six out of 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 110, there were no abstentions, no nine votes, of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Health Committee and the family are proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, abstention 14, not nine, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 56 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 abstentions 15, nine out of 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For no, against 111 abstentions 14, 10 of the 135 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 114, seven of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 15 abstentions, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 96, with 12 abstentions, six of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 94, there were no abstentions, no six votes, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dobrica Jankovic submitted to the 79th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 108, 12 of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd Amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 94, with 13 abstentions, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 13 abstentions, not eight out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A National MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 84th Amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 13 abstentions, five out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ilic. The proposer's representative and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted the amendment to article 86. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 107, abstentioned 14, 11 of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 88th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 12 abstentions, nine out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 92 and 92. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 11 abstentions, nine out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 94, abstentioned 11, six of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 13 abstentions, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 94. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, with 12 abstentions, it was not 11 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 95th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117 abstentions 13, not three, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 98, the amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 13 abstentions, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was filed by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 96, with 13 abstentions, four of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 101st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, with 9 abstentions, it did not vote 8 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica to Article 103. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 13 abstentions, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 112. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 abstentions 12, no vote of 10, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic to Article 113. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 11 abstentions, did not vote 7, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ilic to Article 133. The proposer's representative and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 133. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 115, abstentioned 12, five of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica to Article 138. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 12 abstentions, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic to Article 151. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 13 abstentions, not 9 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 13 abstentions, seven out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 13 abstentions, it did not vote 8 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to Article 157. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 12 abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill on drug laws and medical means in general. For 118, against 14, three out of 135 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of medicine and medicine. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE ENERGETICS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft energy law to the vote, in principle. For 117 against 13, five of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs Slobodan Mihajlović to the members of 71st and Dragoljub Zivkovic to members 69th and 70th. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, dismissed amendments by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic to members 19th and 39th It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendments of the National MPs Slobodan Mihajlovic to members 27, 33 and 58 and Dragan S. Jovanovic to members 33 and 56. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 114, with 13 abstentions, not seven votes, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 110, 12 of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was filed by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 115, with 13 abstentions, did not vote seven out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 109 abstention one, did not vote 13, out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 109 abstentions, 11 did not vote 11 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 abstentions, 11, not 11 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, with 14 abstentions, nine out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 109, there was no 11 vote, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 103 abstentions 14, 14 of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 100, abstentions 14, nine of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstentions 13, it was not 10, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 108, it was not 11 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 103, with 13 abstentions, not 16 votes, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111 with 13 abstentions, seven of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 109 abstentions 13, nine out of 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, with 10 abstentions, it was not 16 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 13 abstentions, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 112, with 14 abstentions, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 106, with 11 abstentions, 14 of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 10 abstentions, nine out of 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 112, nine of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 96, with nine abstentions, seven of the 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, with 13 abstentions, not eight, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 99, with 10 abstentions, seven of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 111 abstentions 13, eight of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan S. Jovanovic submitted to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 93, with 9 abstentions, six out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan S. Jovanovic submitted to the 77th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 96, abstentions 7, four of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 100, with six abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic to Article 134. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 96, with 8 abstentions, five out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic to article 139. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 98, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 140th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 97, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 94, eight of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic to article 144. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 104, ten of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic to article 145. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 114, six out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 146. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, abstention 14, not seven, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 147. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 113 abstentions 12, eight of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted an amendment proposing that six new members be added after article 147. The government and the Committee on Industry have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 114, abstention one, they did not vote four, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic submitted the amendment to article 159. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 95, six out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic to Article 166. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Industry has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 97, it did not vote seven out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic to Article 170. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 95, six out of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 171st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 95, the abstention of four, did not vote eight, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 176, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 92, a abstentioned one, did not vote ten, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on the draft energy law in general. For 116, against 14, they did not vote four, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on energy. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF MINISTRATIVES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in principle. For 118, against 14, two of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act in general. For 119 against 14, one of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Ksenija Milivojevic, at a session on July 14th 2004 at 12.35 pm, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 76, against 23, with seven abstentions, was not voted 28 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Tomislav Nikolic said at a session on July 15th 2004, at 16.35 p.m., that he had violated the Rules of Procedure in connection with a vote on the proposal for the National Assembly to continue its work after 18 hours, i.e. until the end of the debate on the 8th item of the agenda. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 11, against 102, three abstentions, not 18, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic, at a session on July 20th 2004, at 17.20 p.m., pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as he did not receive an answer to the parliamentary question asked four months ago by the health minister regarding the reorganisation of Serbia's Blood Transfused Service. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. In 10, against 101, with three abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milovan Radovanovic, at a session on 22 July 2004, pointed to a violation of Article 97(1) at 12.50. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For six, against 99, the abstention of three, was not voted 25 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on July 22, 2004, at 16.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 81, paragraphs 1 and 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For nine, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on July 22nd 2004, at 16.50 p.m., pointed to a head injury of 9th and 162th to 165, respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. (The session is closed at 8:55 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6324	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT EIGHT SESSION OF 23 July 2004 (The session began at 20.55 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-23-0.u6325	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as decided by 134 MPs, now after the 6th, continue to work on the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 188 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragan Vuksanovic, Marko Djurisic, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Dusan Mrvos, Milena Milosevic, Bosko Ristic, Slobodan Vuković, Gordana Comić, Goran Knezevic, Sava Urosevic, Goran Paunović and Vladimir Jovanovic. Explanation of the grounds for calling a session within a short period of time and another day from the day on which, pursuant to Article 81(1), paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure, they're holding sessions. In accordance with Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session exclusively for Friday, as well as within the deadline set in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda, which in its request for the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established by 101 MPs. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the June 29th and 30th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes, based on Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the June 29th and 30th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 5th extraordinary session. For 126, two abstentions, six of 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 29 and 30 June 2004. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of the 101st MP, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. If we need to take a break to withdraw the proposal, that's before the search begins. As you could see, for the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the restructuring of the NFA-TDFA debt between the Republic of Serbia and the International Coordination Committee, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Commission, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposals for decisions on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, which were submitted by the DSS parliamentary groups, DS-Boris Tadic and G17 Plus. Since the draft acts on the agenda of this session have been proposed to be considered by emergency procedure, the committees, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. Before moving to work on the agenda, on the basis of Article 94, they sought the heads of the parliamentary groups to withdraw item 2 from the agenda, consultation, so I'm taking a break until 21.15 p.m. Thank you. [[After break – 21,15]] We'll continue our work after the break. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert the cards. Using the electronic system, we found that 126 MPs were present in the O.R. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Restruction of Debt by NFA and TDF between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee You have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate in the initial search for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the parliamentary groups have not submitted their application for the word. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the speaker of the Legislative Committee, MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, have not submitted any of the parliamentary groups. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I would like to ask whether the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise the right set out in Article 89, before concluding the search in principle. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the finance minister's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. One hundred MPs, who proposed the agenda, withdrew the second item of the agenda - the selection of members of the Securities Commission. We'll wait until the courier gets me to read you the exact statement. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA For this point of the agenda, you have made proposals on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by parliamentary groups of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Boris Tadic and G17 plus. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Let me read you the notice we got. I would like to inform you that, under the agreement of the parliamentary groups, we have decided to withdraw the proposal from the established agenda before the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2004, which was called for on July 23rd 2004, to discuss the proposal for a decision to elect the president and members of the Securities Commission, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The applicants are requesting to convene the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs, followed by a list of 101 MPs. Do the rapporteurs want the word (national MPs Milos Aligrudic, Bojan Pajtic and Goran Paunovic)? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written application, with a number of MPs, have not been submitted by any parliamentary group. Since there are no voter groups registered, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, do the rapporteurs want to give the final statement, according to Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals for a decision, in general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 23 July 2004 as the voting day. We'll approach the vote immediately - at 21.50 a.m. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Restruction of Debt by NFA and TDFA between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on ratification of the memorandum of understanding in the restructuring of the NFA-TDFA debt between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee, in principle. For 133, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the restructuring of the NFA-TDFA debt between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee, in general. The 132 were not voted by two of the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on the ratification of the memorandum of understanding on the restructuring of the NFA-TDFA debt between the Republic of Serbia and the International Co-ordination Committee. I thank you and congratulate you. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSALS OF THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, we approach the vote on the proposals for decisions, in general. First, I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. For 130, against two, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Secondly, I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic. Three out of 134 MPs voted for 131. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic. Third, I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 130, a abstention one, was not voted by three, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. Since we have come to terms with all the proposals for decisions, I ask if you agree that all the proposals adopted are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as one legally-technically united act - the decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this motion for a decision. Since we've conducted our review and decision-making on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you personally for everything you've done today and to wish you two to rest for at least two weeks. Thank you very much and goodbye.
