ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3833	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 166 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Predrag Markovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: I give my word to the MP Milan Veseinović, and let the MP Toma Busetic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legal project that is in front of us today has great importance. That's what the predecessors talked about. I'm just going to point out his importance and indicate that the debate on this law is about a large population of ours. I remind you that more than a million students attend elementary and high school. If we add parents and educators, it's over three million of our citizens who are directly interested in this law. It's just saying that we need to seriously access this legal project and that we simply take the social seriousness of adopting such a legal act. We who have worked in education for many years know what good means, what bad law, we know what good means and what bad school reform means. We remember the end of the '70s, when Stipe Shuar introduced a reform of education, as well as legal changes. We remember well that eight - year - old school was extended to 10 classes, or we called it targeted education. After a few years, it turned out that this reform was a failure and that we had mutilated generations and generations, so we went back to the old, numbered grades and eight-year-olds or eight-year-old schools, a mandatory eight-year-old school. Further, the reform and change of laws resulted in the introduction of the admission, or as it is called, of a qualification exam later in the years. To this day, the exams pass our laws, and we Serbian radicals against every admission exam. For what? Because we're re-evaluating, because the higher level of education is underestimating the lower level of education. If we add to this the trauma of parents and students when passing the exams, then it is clear to everyone what it means to students who finished eighth grade, or eighth grade. One of the best education reforms to be completed was in 1998, when the Ministry of Education formed a Republic Commission for Education Reform, which was attended by prominent experts. Then there were doctors, teachers from all over the world, teachers, teachers, and then there was our Dr. Vojislav Seselj. This school reform was designed to be, simply, reform at all levels, from pre-school to higher education. Unfortunately, the school reform was interrupted in 1999, when our country was bombed. After that, school reform was carried out by revolutionaries on October 5th, assisted by foreign mentors and foreign finances, and among many and NGOs, Soros and others. That reform turned out to be bad. We called it the Gasha Reform. It's worse than that Stupina reform. Maybe it's the worst reform ever made in our country's space. It showed up right away in the first grade of primary school. Can you imagine, if you look at the plan and program of the first grade of elementary school, you'll understand everything, with a hundred and eighty-seven hours of mathematics, the number is down to 136 hours, and the material remains the same, if not more extensive. And not to mention the burden of teachers working in elementary schools, or in the first grade of elementary school, where, in order to assess a student in one class, it takes at least to describe a few categories, or terms, and the question is how much is known in our country, because it's about foreign expressions, in the end, to write the outcomes. For example, in order for the student to get an assessment from the Serbian language, the teacher is obliged to describe the student's language reception, language production, interaction, mediation, interpretation, knowledge of language, knowledge of literature and media literacy. Here, to describe this as soon as possible, the teacher needs at least 50 sentences, and then to conclude the outcomes. What's the outcome? We're wondering what the outcome is. People have spent millenniums to reach some scale and grade, and today we're complicated to give a grade and value some work, we're using outcomes. That's why we Serbian radicals are against this descriptive assessment. We're against administration. We are for the numerical evaluation, which is best and most effective in the past period. I would like to point out that in the first grade of primary school, we have a special basic school program for first grade, and somewhere on page 87, where class is done, we have an opening, main and final part. In this main part, one sentence is this: at the beginning to insist on the correctness of the performance, please, on the correctness of the performance. These were written by Nenad Havelka, Emma Habib, and Alexander Baucal. Perhaps everything is clear to you, I mean this word - performance, from where it was prescribed, and what it means for our Serbian education, for education. So, simply, that these plans and programs are copied from someone, and this word was not translated, but dropped. I know that the school reform of these revolutionaries was conditioned on October 5th by NGOs, the European Commission, some banks, and they are finance, the non-existent financials of this law that Ganja is implementing. But unfortunately, I'm also going to say something about this law proposed by this ruling group. According to the discussions, I realized that the greatest influence here is G17 plus and that the law, unfortunately with some cosmetic changes, is better. Otherwise, there's basically a lot of things that are the same. It remains a descriptive evaluation in this law, which is very bad and will again be a burden for teachers, students, and parents. In this law, instead of the entrance exam, the final exam is scheduled, as well as in high school. You know, gentlemen, what that means is a prom exam; so, again after the exam, we traumatize those eighth grade kids to get into high school, I mean high school, and I'm not talking about what the costs are, when students are obliged to write those finals in a few days, to pay teachers, mentors, etcetera. We Serbian radicals think this is too high, that this should be thrown out. Here in our legal project, the National Educational Council is foreseen. This national council is better than the previous council, which is directly elected by the Assembly and has a responsibility to the Republic Assembly. However, the establishment of an education and education institute is a bad thing, because there is a pile of bureaucratic apparatus, there are great costs and we believe that these departments could take over the national council of education. You'll see there when you read the law, the responsibilities of the National Education Council and the responsibilities of the Institute overlap. That's why I think that the schemes should be lifted immediately. Since time is limited to us, and there are a lot of colleagues of radicals who will speak, I'm just going to say that, in addition to this legal project and education reform, it's very important to provide material conditions for the implementation of any law, especially for increasing the salaries of educational workers. It must be systematic and monitor all other flows in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3835	The People's Messenger, Toma Busetic, has the word. Let Vesna Lalić be prepared. Is Vesna Lalic there? You're giving up? Please, then, let MP Zivan Vladimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3836	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System were necessary and necessary, as this law falls within the order of those laws that could have disastrous consequences for our society. Fortunately, today we are putting an end to this law, and as the Law on Privatisation is actually a law on the sale of the best factories and businesses, as the Labour Law has disproved all employees and reduced them to modern slaves, so this law has also carried out a lightning and thought-out blow to everything that is valuable in this area. The amendments and additions of this law return in some way dignity to the profession and basically prevent the devising of the education system, which is a priority for every society above all priorities. If we hadn't read the amendments and the additions to this law, we at the SPS knew that these changes and additions were very solid. Solid, above all, for the reasons that these changes and additions are welcomed on the knife in the ranks of numerous NGOs, in the ranks of DOS parties, various analysts, experts, most often mercenaries of foreign foundations, who are not thinking well of this country and this people. When TV B92 comes down to something, journalists of the weekly Time, when GSS officials, such as Gassa Knezevic or Natasa Micic, we know that these solutions are good for Serbia. Yesterday I even carefully watched former President Natasa Micic, and I watched former Minister Gaš Knezevic, and I had the impression that they too know that this law is bad, that they have changed and complemented the good, but simply as if they had to obstruct the work of this parliament. But everyone in this assembly needs to know that the goal of all the different foreign mentors, which appear here in Serbia most often under the cover of a number of NGOs, is to brainwash us first and for the start, and behind them to rob us and occupy us. The SRS are leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3837	Please let the speaker tell you, but that's your speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3838	If these foreign foundations thought well of us and our society, they would give us loans to raise factories, businesses and hire people in them. All their concerns about reforms, democracy and human rights, modern and modern society, are washed up stories, after which we are all poorer and poorer. When this law, which the former minister made with the help of mostly these and such foreigners, and now we see that, besides Soros, the World Catholic Church took part in these projects, the objectives of these and such reforms are clear. They simply wanted the school to be a place for a variety of distractions, a waste of time, a humiliation of teachers, and not a place to learn, educate and train. Of course, nothing is done by chance, the aim of reform in our country in the time of DOS authorities, as well as in many other countries of Eastern Europe, and even in other countries of the world, of those poor, was, when it comes to education, to schools producing human beings trained for the simplest jobs; therefore, to have poor education and to listen to their bosses, whether they are domestic bosses or foreign. And to have a cheap and uneducated workforce, the creators of global evil begin with their quasireforms right in the field of education. That's how it happened with this Gaza law and its reforms. Let's think of the so-called. Creative teaching and its achievements. What was creative teaching about? It was that the student was free of all responsibility when it came to work, to show knowledge, and to conduct. The whole system of education clearly led to the creation of whole generations of illiterate, obedient and dissuaded peers in the harsh system of general exploitation. For the implementation of the project, the former minister has hired entire teams of incompetent quasistrucians, who have been paid hugely to carry out so-called "Serbs" in Serbia. the reforms, whose main purpose was to rip apart the roots of the spring tradition, culture and history, as this makes the people the easiest government. What I finally want to say and to be some recommendation to the new government should be very careful to speak words such as reform, transition, civilization society, integration, modern modern society. We are witnessing that over the past three years, Doss' champions have most often talked about great achievements, major reforms, painful transitions, democracy, and all of this in itself has turned out. The result of these reforms over the past three years has been catastrophic: mass layoff, shut down domestic production. When they talked about transition, they said it was a painful transition. Who was she sick of? Only for the mass of the population, and those who were in power and around the government lived too rich and too good, their mouths were full of democracy, and we know that at that time there was a "Sabre" action, when 12 thousand people were arrested, more than in the Pinocchio regime. Most importantly, we put an end to that anti-reform law, and we in the SPS expect that very quickly on the agenda of this assembly to find laws, such as the Labour Act, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the Employment Act. It's the only way to reform it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3839	Replica. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3840	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I'm using the right to replication. It's a paradigm sentence spoken by the previous speaker, and he said the following. "Although we didn't read it, we knew your law was better than the last one." That's great. That's what you were going to say, that you're more comfortable with one than another way of thinking. The problem is there's only one way of thinking here, and the other half of fish is half a girl, but that's another thing. We've been making offers. Our offers can come down to two. One was the postponing of the seventh class, the formation of the National Educational Council and the adoption council, without discipline, the education strategy adopted by this assembly, and then the entire system of pro futuro was formed. The second offer was with these two institutions of yours, and the problem was also a license. There was an opportunity to create a flexible system of licenses, there was an opportunity for older teachers to be licensed without renewal. If you think it's necessary to protect people who, say, are 50 years old and upward, there were all kinds of possibilities. Everything suggested on this side has been rejected. Please, gentlemen, and please, I know that we are now in the heat of discussion and in the heat of passing the law, and I know that you are used to calling this previous text "Gasha's Law." I, when all this is over, will truly congratulate the new team and the minister. That's what I really think. There's one thing I want to tell you: in the future it can't be called "Gasha's Law." The responsibility for implementation, for running this little Frankenstein, doesn't have this crew that was behind me, but is already being taken over by the other team. So it's a matter of responsibility for the future, and I'm not taking part in it. He sinceres his congratulations to those who have managed to convince all MPs that his text is better than ours; of course, I will give it for the opportunity to convince 250 or how many people that what he writes is good. It's a skill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3841	It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3842	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 87. Former Minister Gašo Knezevic did not interpret me well. I said "and we haven't read," and we read very carefully and studied these amendments and additions to the law. We know from experience, this three-year-old and multi-year-old, when something attacks B92, Milos Vasic, a journalist, this other Anastasia, when they attack a number of NGOs some solution, any solution, we know very well that this is a good solution to Serbia, because they are in the position of anti-Serbian politics all the time. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3843	The word has been given by MP Zivan Vladimirovic, and let the MP Donka Banovic be prepared. He gives up; then let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a new law that offers certain improvements to the current law. The applicable law was not valid and therefore this law could suffer some criticism from the SRS, and that any amendments proposed by the SRS were accepted would be more acceptable to us. To me, as an educational worker, there are some things I have to criticise. First of all, I mean the material position of education, not only the salaries of employees, but also the material position of schools, the equipment of schools, and especially the interior. School parameters were always taken from larger centres, from Belgrade, and few were seen in the province and southern Serbia. The schools are very poorly equipped and I would take this opportunity to invite the minister to visit little southern Serbia, to see how things are done down there and how they live. Construction of a school in Toplička Mali Plana has been started and I doubt it, since this law also predicts that the material security of schools has been transferred to municipalities, that it will be completed. I'm calling on the minister to look at that part, visit Toplice, and see how it works down there. As for the profession, the exams for the directors, I don't know what the directors are going to do to you. Directors are from the ranks of educators, professors, and they know the process of work in schools. They've got lawyers at school, accounting chiefs, and I don't know what the director needs to learn anymore. I'd like the minister to explain here what's going to contain that exam for the directors. As for the professional license exam for professors, I call it a professional exam because I took that exam. A man in education, if he's healthy, if he's all right with him, he's experienced with greater knowledge and he's a better professor. Professional exams went to colleges where they ended and the license wasn't requested. Now I don't understand how long that license will last and whether it will be re-tested or not. It is clear to me that there is age and other things that interfere with the process of teaching, but there are medical examinations every year that, in my opinion, should be carried out safely and if a man is no longer to work going into retirement: and to be relegated for the so-called license, in my opinion, I think it is immaterial. As far as this preschool prep class is concerned, it is not clear there, it is likely that other sublaws will explain whether it will be teachers or educators. This will be clarified later, because it can come, if it only shifts to teachers, to extra labor in preschool institutions, which would not be good. This includes discipline against students. It's a 60-day deadline. What happens if it's at the end of the school year or it's the final class, so there's never a discipline against students. So, maybe that deadline should be cut short. Because it could be some serious disciplinary offense, to get out of school, and it's been those 60 days, and that's how it goes. As for final exams, if school teachers for eight years of primary schooling, or for four or three secondary education, fail to gain insight into the student's knowledge, then I don't understand how it can be estimated in a day, two or three, how long the graduate's exam will take. How can you look at that knowledge, because we know that graduate work is written at home, you use all kinds of literature and stuff. That's not a good solution. It may even occur that the student is physically prevented from attending the exam, being without a degree, and practically not being able to enroll in high school or in college. The law does not say whether there will be admission exams for high schools and colleges. There's probably not gonna be any admission exams. He won't? So, it won't be, but I still don't think the final exam is good, and I should be saving students during school, and that I can go to high school and college with grades from all classes. A member who predicts the material security of schools from the budget of municipalities is not good, it is not fair to poor environments, because they are practically unable to cover those costs. I know that, I come from Toplici County, that no municipality can cover the costs of schools, or very difficult, because there is an intrinsic and professional training, so it says in the law (returns the ministers) and everything else that follows that. In order for that to happen to us, right where the poorest municipalities of the Republic are, we need to intervene, so that it doesn't happen to be ceilings or that kids fall through the floor at school, and that's what we heard here yesterday. As far as descriptive evaluation is concerned, since I've been in education for more than 20 years, I remember that alphabet, and most of it probably remembers it here, when music, visual and physical education was so rated. The children lost interest in these items, so they even avoided attending classes. I don't think that's good. A special student book should also be printed in order to write such an assessment, because if it is descriptively evaluated then there is a need for more space in the student book. It is also predicted that the first two grades of primary school are not graded. I don't think that's good either, because kids are used to taking home fives, fours, so that should be corrected. With regard to civic and religious education, we heard some opinions yesterday, and it says in the law, that it is not possible to change the chosen programme, and I disagree with that. I think it should be left to the will of the children. In the first grade, a child is not yet able to choose an object that he will listen to, so that should be left to the children later on. That they can change that. And, uh, the famous civic education, which was introduced as a pandan for religious education, has one name I don't want to say. Gašo Knezevic probably knows him. I've heard that from the priests, and they don't say a word of praise about him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3845	The People's MP Ivan Radic came to the floor, and let Susana Grubjesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us one of the most important laws, one of those laws that is usually said to be so-called. system laws, and this is certainly the law that a lot of things depend on. It depends on the future of the youngest, means children, young people, and thus the future of the entire country, because it is necessary for this country to have young, capable, educated and professional people, recognised in its profession. And it is certain that such a law must be written extremely well, thoroughly, and reasoned and meet the requirements of the time in which it was created. The bill that is before us, in any case, is better than this current, valid, proposed by the Assembly to the previous government, DOS and adopted in the Assembly. If anything, it's so much better that children won't climb out of the barrels with that two-metre language, Vuk Karadzic, which won't wink at them by St. Sava etc. As far as the SRS is concerned, we are not satisfied with the solution offered, regardless of what he is, as I said, better than this one, I can already say the previous law, and some general position on the issue of the law is that in principle he does not have a clearly defined goal, that he is essentially incomplete, incomplete and in this sense the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments, to try to fix it in this way. And we are convinced that the promoter has an understanding of our efforts and that, hopefully, a large number of amendments will be adopted by the SRS. What's good in this law is that instead of the existing three councils, one is now formed, so the National Educational Council. It's explained by rationalization and economics and it's just fine. Also, it is good that this council is chosen by the National Assembly, however, if we move forward we see that there are some things that we do not like in the SRS. First of all, Article 3 is talking about the composition of the National Educational Council, and there's one thing I've got an eye on. Point 2) says four members of the Belgrade University teachers are elected, point 3) to elect one member of the class of teachers in Novi Sad and Nis and point 4) to select a member from the list of candidates submitted jointly by other universities. You didn't find it appropriate to write that -- what other universities they were. As far as I know, these are the universities in Kragujevac and Pristina. What bothers me especially is that in this way you indirectly, and perhaps directly humiliate some of the universities. So I got the impression that we have a first-class university, that's in Belgrade, that we have two second-rate universities, in Novi Sad and Nis, and that we have third-rate universities, which can give that one member of the council. I don't see any reason why universities aren't put in an equal position. I will also state one purely formal reason, as regards the number of members, so 38; i.e. This is a formal remark that the council consists of a number of members. However, the practice is that on any committees, councils, commissions, and a similar number of members is odd for possible revotes, although I am convinced that this will not happen here. Another thing that we in the SRS have tried to solve in the amendment, is that the Council is chosen by people who are not politically exposed, not to be persons chosen, appointed or appointed to office in state authorities, in functions in the organs of territorial provinces or local self-government. This should, however, be a body that is overly focused on the profession and on the problem it needs to deal with, and that has nothing to do with politics. What's wrong with this law, I'll try just a few small details to make, we'll be more extensive in the amendments, the first thing that bothered me is the exam for the school director. We think this is extremely unnecessary, because that's how this man is humiliated. These are, however, people who have been working in their profession for years, who are teachers and teachers themselves and in the opinion of the SRS are quite enough permission to work, which is obtained by passing a professional exam. As for the school program, the curriculum, it is intended to be brought by the school management bodies, therefore, by the school board. In principle, it is not so controversial, but it is disputed that there is no control function of the founder, Ministry of Implementation and Sports, specifically the minsiter, which should nevertheless be written in law, purely as one prevention. When it comes to institutions that are intended to form this bill, the institution for improving education and education and the institution for estimating the quality of education and education, we believe that these institutions should not exist in this form, that these are government institutions, the institutions of the executive body of government and that this does not go in favour of the reasoning from the beginning, as I said, that it goes in rationalisation and economics of this law. If specific bodies were to be formed, it could have been within the framework of the National Educational Council, that it formed some of its commissions that would be in charge of certain sectors, so that the SRS parliamentary group disagrees with that proposal. One more thing that's problematic, it's a descriptive evaluation of the first two grades of primary school. However, some practice has shown that there is no better way of assessing than the number currently exists. There may be a relaxation of children, a lack of understanding of the obligations they expect and, say, in third grade, when this numerical assessment comes into effect, some problems arise. In the end, it may have been possible to maintain a descriptive evaluation in some cases, musical, visual education, physical, in those objects related to culture, where in some ways children's inclinations to certain arts could be seen, to determine their talent, but de facto, a descriptive evaluation for all preschooles, we believe that at this point is not a good solution. In any case, the SRS advocates that the evaluation be numbered. So much for the debate in principle. We have submitted a large number of amendments, and we will be more extensive about all of this when the debate is in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3847	National MP Susan Grubjesic gave up. The People's MP Dragan Zivkov has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to look back on this law that is very important to all MPs and should be important in this House. Since I represent the SRS, I would refer a little bit to this law in principle, which should be a little bit more important to give to this parliament and a little more time for MPs to pay attention. Because this law is very important to our nation and I think it's a very short time to make bad law good, this time left for this law. Since it's already being said that this law may be abolished, the question is, what happens next year? Since the minister said in his statement that this law should be adapted to time, the time we live in today's SRS finds it very unfavorable to pass such a law. Why do I say that? Only here, in this change of counsel, was there three, and now only the National Educational Council, I think our party gives consent, because, first of all, his name is good, and I think that's what's going to work. Will this counsel of education, national, restore and channel our cultural, historical, spiritual and professional education? Why do I say that? In the past, we can't look back on him, what happened in terms of the economy itself, transitions, etc., where our kids who finish generation school will be trained professionally. Will this national council have the ear to produce professional personnel who will work in this future economy? For many years, these companies that have been privatised, whether they will retain the same technology, whether they will deal with the same production, whether this national council will have the strength to listen to all this and to produce the workforce, experts, staff that will need in the future. After the bad law we had, Mr. Minister, formerly, he said that the next responsibility was taken over by people who would confess and vote this law. Yeah, but he doesn't understand that we're saving him from responsibility, because only after 13, 14 and 15 years of people and children when they're finished will they realize that they're missed, in fact, that they're miseducated. You should put an accent on that part most. So the addition of bad law can't accomplish much. The SRS will try to make its amendments as good a law as bad, and I think the bad law cannot make these many small supplements good, it takes a long period of time to implement such a law. We've had in previous periods of good proposals, we've had very bad years, where we're focused on education, someone mentioned Stipe Shuvara, that's what targeted education has been throwing out our staff for years, as far as secondary, high and higher schools are concerned. Therefore, whether the minister is in this revision of this poor law and whether the National Educational Council will bear in mind how many competitions and demands there were for people trained, highly trained people, according to this targeted education. In our understanding, very little. Thus, this is the painful point where education should be directed in the right direction and towards the right goal. This is where the shelters and centers are mentioned. Whether the job of the Bureau or the center will be done by some other commissions. I see here that the shelters and centers in this bill don't have much ground. What makes me say that? If the centre fails to submit its report in time or fails to submit its proposal to the ministry, the minister makes his own decision. So, he's making an act and he's making a decision, and we believe that your delusions then don't have much responsibility and some success in forming this law. Since all of this is in order to improve the generations that are coming, I think you should look back at the wishes of students who want to enroll in high school, miss a competition or not, and then run to another school they don't want to enroll, but in order not to miss a school year, they get into another school they don't want, and in the meantime they can't switch to a school they wanted to enroll. In this way, they finish school and train professionally, but not with their own desire. There should be a little accent on that national council of education, to take a little care of that too.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3849	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3850	A colleague asked a question of responsibility. It's true that I said that no further responsibility falls on us. What responsibility is he going to fall for the team that's coming? Instead of the already existing discussed and adopted programmes, in the first class already applied, during the summer someone, you don't know who, you don't know how, is going to bring new programmes. Our programs brought in about 300 people of different structures, and teachers of colleges and teachers of secondary and elementary schools. What people are going to bring these programs? What if it turns out that the first class programs were great and that the more literate children came out of this first class than they did in the past? Instead of already stalking institutions that have been established and are already functioning, new ones are being created with a strange system of jurisdiction, and in fact not based on the authoritative idea of the lawmaker, but under the pressure of the international community. If there wasn't any pressure, there wouldn't be an institution. Instead of the already made and very good textbooks, whose promotion will be at the teacher's assembly, the publishers will be given the opportunity to resume old practice and to textbooks that have not been checked and have not passed the accreditation procedure of our students' offer. The kids might learn again, I don't say, but maybe they'll learn from bad textbooks. Our wish is for the textbooks to be improved. Teachers who are already qualified to advance into new titles will have to wait for new regulations, who knows what, in which case, who knows how to make progress. Instead of the already existing and tried training programs, someone will build new training programs based on some criteria, to us currently unknown, to no one unknown. So all we get are questions, and the answers that have already been offered are no longer available, because they are deleted, or they will be deleted if the proposal is adopted. One of the MPs said that if the time is a problem, let the ministry adopt all proposed amendments. The quality of the text will neither win nor lose, all 107 can be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3851	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Jankovic. He's giving up. The word has the People's MP Dragan Colic, and let the MP Dragoljub Kojcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is receiving a brotherly delegation from Russia so that all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are in the Assembly. Don't think they're gone. The continued education of all inhabitants is one of the fundamental interests of modern society and this interest cannot be satisfied without the crucial role of the state in the educational sphere. The state prescribes a level of compulsory education and conditions of education at optional levels, then curricula and software content within the basic system, and provides material and personnel conditions for the functioning of educational and educational institutions in the public sector. In conducting an education policy, it usually seeks to strike a balance between traditional flows and modern trends, national specificities and universal values. The minister says in light of the bill's proposal -- the changes speak for themselves, as if no debate was needed, as if it were not necessary to enter into some deeper analysis. Amendments that speak of themselves and the need to adopt themselves are sufficient, i.e. the aim is also to adapt the bill to time in a rational way. It's not enough, with the conclusion that the proposed law is something better than so-called. The law of former minister Gaša Knezevic. The law was passed at a time of emergency, meaning in conditions that were deviating from normal, from a normal situation. At that time, it was an intensive effort to bring down all the institutions of society. The SRS MPs fought hard and bitterly to prevent the passing of the executed law, but were prevented by the tyranny of the parliamentary majority of the DOS. Fortunately, the law did not last long, so the negative consequences would be less, and it had a devastating goal for Serbian national interests, traditions, history and culture. His goal was to wipe out every national consciousness. We can accept the formation of the National Educational Council and that the National Assembly chooses the National Educational Council. It is indicative of the formation of the institute, and within the institute there are centres, so it is debateable how in practice this will work and how many confusions will produce a massive bureaucratic apparatus. Is there not sufficient purpose for national educational councils and possibly education commissions within the framework of the National Educational Council? The issue of responsibility and roles of the ministry is raised and whether it avoids the responsibility it needs to take over in the field of education and education, so that it transfers everything to other bodies, and only the ministry to enjoy its leniency, comfort and potential privileges. It was not pleasant for me as an SRS MP to see how much haste hastening you, how much pressure is being put on MPs who need to come out and discuss, to speak, and I guess the people sent us all here to perform this responsible public function and to easily, rationally, soberly approach analysis and discussion that would help to make the drafts of the law as high as possible, to improve our amendments to the bill. And not in an untasteful way prevents the messengers from speaking, there's no time, we're in a hurry. Now, if you are representatives of some relevant, serious political option, you should know that you should come to power and that you can come to power and that your laws are ready, not now teatnot, haste, so you don't know how you're going to get out of this roll. Dispute exams are for school directors, exam costs, and the minister, in the light of the bill's proposal, says the law is adapted to the current economic situation. This now does not convince me that the law adapts to the current economic situation, which we know is what it is, that we live in the conditions of a major economic crisis and social misery. Educational workers are one of the most endangered, among others, categories of society. Assessment and poor rewarding of the teaching staff by the state authorities leads to a decline in the quality of education. The catastrophic consequences are regularly caused by politicisation, ideological indoctrination of the educational process, as well as manipulation of students and students for political purposes. There you all, gentlemen, except for the SRS, were actively involved. By birth we all enroll in the university of nature and learn on it until death itself. There is no man who would know much, and there is no man who would know enough. We should try to raise generations, first of all, as one of the most clever Serbs said, an educated man is, above all, the one who has the cheek.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3853	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, a replica, please, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3854	Mr. Chairman, I already said yesterday immunity does not protect against untruth. The law was not passed during the state of emergency, the state of emergency ended in late April, and the law was passed in June. Therefore, what is not true is not true. Secondly, I'm going to have to try to explain to some what democracy is. Democracy is the rule of the majority. How he feels most, whether like tyrants or most without that attribute "tired," that's another thing. Right now, I may feel like some majority's tyranny, but I'll never say it's not democracy. That's the difference in the starting point, because the one who has the majority, he has the power. Whether it's my grief or not, that's the question. I have to comment on the statement made yesterday by the minister on television and it has been said that the concessional differences are so great that the compromise cannot be between this proposal and the old text. If that's the case, then we've finally admitted that these aren't changes and additions. This is a new law. I have to call some people in the Serbian government who are dealing with the law of government's work who gave the green light to changes in the text that do not include one third, but 80% of the text. That's what's written by this law in procedural shortfall and will remain recorded in history. You'll all be aware of that, because that's the mortgage you're carrying for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3855	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let MP Zoran Masic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is governed by the great interest of the MPs, and as shown by the participation in the debate, as well as by the large number of amendments that have been tabled, I mean around 140. There was a live debate on the Committee on Education, but at the outset I must commend the proposing's willingness to accept some proposals from opposition parties and those that make up the ruling majority, so that some 26 amendments have been accepted. I hope that during the debate, when MPs explain their amendments, another number of really good amendments will be accepted and become an integral part of the law. I have recently heard from former Education Minister Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic, Zoran Djindjic and others, who says the law was not passed in an emergency, as the state of emergency ended in late April, the law was passed later, May or late May. Mr. Knezevic, we feel the period of your authority is a state of emergency, not only when the state of emergency has been unlawfully officially declared, we feel this period of your authority as an emergency. The state of emergency for us was Ms. Natasa Micic, who sat behind our backs, shared pucks and warnings, forced MPs into benches, violated the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law. Most of those who spoke about this law yesterday pointed out that the law was not an ideal solution, but that the move was better than the previous law, and that law was pesoratively called - Gasha's law. They say it's much better, because there won't be any more of those humiliating summer camps, the best behavior, the dredging and teachers and students, that breakthrough of Sorosovsky philosophy in our schools. And in particular, they say it's very important because many teachers and educators complained that at these seminars for teachers and teachers they often played some stupid games, like making airplanes, held hands, played click-clack, and, according to one Nish professor, they just didn't make me say where the rabbit drinks water and where the smart head is. I'm sure there won't be any more of that. I must repeat the question of a journalist here who says: as long as you MPs, whatever regime comes you change the law, you change the way and the conditions under which our children will be educated, when you will once pass such a law that will not change for years; we cannot think on the threshold of the new school year on which our children will work and under what conditions their schooling will take place. So let me also accept that this new law represents a shift in relation to the previous law, and for the reasons that I have stated, which we accept. However, I also heard a new minister say that perhaps this is not a comprehensive solution, that it was done under the pressure of time. The start of the school year is approaching, and they did not have enough time to fully look at all the areas and that legislation will be undertaken later on in this job. Madam Minister, you have no right to say this, you have no right to waste the time of MPs and taxpayers' money. You were in the campaign, a list then led by Vojislav Kostunica, saying that you had prepared laws and that these were ideal solutions, and that a whole team of experts, experts, working to prepare new legal projects, and that it was just enough to form a government and a path to the table, everything would be good and ideal. You have no right to say so, you had to prepare something that would be comprehensive. And you thought you'd be the president of the Fireman municipality, so they replaced you, so nothing's permanent, everything's relative. I think that's what you have to keep in mind. You can't argue that you didn't have enough time. You've had a lot of time. When you think you're taking that legal or legislative action. If you're not up until now, then June 13th is on the threshold, and maybe someone else will be running that legislative activity. You'll have no more time. I'd like this law and that your work as long as you're a minister is marked by solving emergency problems in school, which will help teachers get out of the current humiliating state. I'm complaining about a professor from Nis, and he says, "I'm listening to a conversation in the school yard, "two students speak, my dad says I'm okay with 200 euros and I get two." This Okac is a professor of mathematics, and this student parent is one of the newly-compromised businessmen, the money-shaping ones. Or let me ask you, does this mean a donation when a wealthy parent gives the school 50,000 dinars in cash, 100,000 dinars in cash, to get rid of, allegedly, school problems, and then his son of five units becomes a good, very good student. Let me ask you, how do you organize excursions, how does it happen that kids die on tours or how it happens that an educator, a teacher, from the agency that made the trip gets in cash a daily trip, why doesn't it get on our hands, means like cash, like every employee if he travels 10 kilometers from the place of residence or place of work, and if he spends eight or 12 hours on the road, a travel order, and on the basis of a travel order he'll charge from school his travel expenses. It's all to be solved. Maybe I should ask you, why do most teachers spend most of the year on a schedule, plan or some holidays away from class, I don't know what it's all about. He doesn't get to ask his students, but he does do it in writing, where really one small mistake leads to a weak grade, and there's never time to fix that grade again, or otherwise to solve the problem of his weak grades. How to solve the safety of our children in schools, how to solve everything that, not just from the previous period, from the period of the former regime, torture and school, and students and educational teachers. I think, first of all, we need to restore dignity to education, start from elementary school to college education. I would like today's students to remember their professors and teachers, as we remember after 30 years of our teachers, our class elders, and proudly point out, we were both students and that school, he was our teacher and he was our teacher. And today, 30 years later, when I see my sister, my class elder, with awe and awe, I approach him, and today he's gone. Today we all work in a state where we can't stand each other, we hate each other, and it's all the laws and our work in the National Assembly. To conclude, that this law really represents a certain shift, but I think the minister would have to go ahead and work harder and harder to make sure that frequent changes and additions of laws do not bring about a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3857	National Messenger Natasa Micic, then you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3858	Mr. Chairman, I am using the right to replica on the basis of Article 97(1) and on the presentation of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should all be aware of one thing here, which is that the mistakes, any errors of the previous call, and in all this my work, are still being judged now, and the results of the previous call, and with that and my work, will be judged by the future. Gentlemen, very ready and calmly waiting for this future as far as I'm concerned. The other thing is, I'm glad that the gentlemen of the SRS at the time when we were in power see it as an emergency. We, gentlemen, i.e. the option to which I belong the time of government of you and the SPS see you as a devastating situation in Serbia, and you should be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3859	Slavoljub Matić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3860	I know we don't have a lot of time and we don't want to spend the tax money, but it's not a burning mention, because Mr. Stamenkovic said that by passing laws and unpreparedness we're actually spending people's money, that a good part of that tax money is being spent here because of the obstruction of the Radical Party, and it's clear to everyone here, especially those who watch TV broadcasts. In every normal society, such behavior is sanctioned in the elections. The people don't want to vote for those who spend people's money by obstructing the law. Otherwise, the DSS never promised to have prepared all possible laws, but promised to make it possible on the basis of good proposals for the Assembly to pass laws. One more thing, Stamenkovic, let me tell you, I was president of SO Fireman, I can say that with pride, and I can only add that you will never be president of any municipality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3861	Wait, first Rules of Procedure, moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3862	I appeal to that member, the secretary will help you, who says MPs must make precise claims and must speak with respect to other MPs. I don't see what I caused the replica, since I said that Mr. Matic was the president of the municipality, that he was removed, that's quite true, that's true, by the will of the So where he was president, he was replaced, and something else, Mr. Matic said that citizens appreciate what radicals are obstructing the work of the National Assembly and that they say in the elections. I'd ask myself what the DSS is doing when she got twice as many votes in the election as the SRS, twice as many MPs. It seems that Serbian citizens still appreciate our commitment to bring the laws in to be good, usable, that they can serve the benefit of the citizens. However, Mr. Matić, you will have to ask your head of Parliament when you call, because you can often call in damages to your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3863	According to the Rules of Procedure, moment one, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and after that, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3864	Dear President, my own announcement about what would happen resulted in the MP's majority making quorum. I agree with everything that's going on, but I guess Mr. Obradovic, who's reporting, won't mind, so he can participate adequately in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3865	Please, just say which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3866	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 82(2), and I'm asking you to establish a quorum, so that Mr. Zarko Obradovic can adequately address the Assembly in the number needed for the Assembly to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3867	We'll determine the quorum, since it's requested, and then we'll continue to work. Since we have the quorum, MP Zarko Obradovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3868	Dear People's MPs, I went out to replicate Mrs. Micic on behalf of the SPS. A worthy court of SPS and of what she did, that's her right. But it's very unfortunate, it's inappropriate, when that value court is given by a person who led the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at one time that remains remembered, at least in recent political history, as the worst time of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because the same lady was an accomplice in something that is unfortunately so ugly that it is difficult to speak, an accomplice in stealing from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, an accomplice in stealing the SPS mandate, who has abused the Rules of Procedure, who has counter-constitutionally imposed an emergency—and yet we know what happened during the emergency situation, not only an attempt to eliminate political parties, but also 12,000 people past the Constitution and the law were brought in, held in prison, etc. – which was calling elections when DOS ie. The structure it belonged to and which seemed to preside over so many ugly things in this National Assembly that I really don't think there's any moral basis for it to be for some other people, and especially for us, the SPS MPs, to hold a sermon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3869	Here you go. National MP Jovanovic. Here you go, replica. (Gasho Knezevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You won't give me a word, I don't mind. I'll give you my word, I'm sorry, I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3870	I'd just like to briefly replicate Mrs. Micic and Mr. Matic, if he's still in the O.R. Mrs. Micic, the time from October 5th 2000 until the early parliamentary elections in 2003 was an emergency. All that time. In most of that time, you were president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and V.D. President of the Republic. You mentioned your political option. To be honest, few citizens in Serbia know what your political option is. If you think that there is an option, go to the elections on your own to see what Serbian citizens think of the option. As for Mr. Matic and his position here that the MPs of the SRS spend national money deliberately delaying this debate, I want to remind myself of what I said yesterday. This session was scheduled for Friday at 12 o'clock. It didn't start Friday at 10:00 p.m. or 12:00 p.m., it didn't start till 4:00 p.m. Friday. In fact, the ending was previous, and this one was postponed for Monday at 10. Monday at 10:00, they didn't start again, they started at 5:00. The responsibility for the two days lost is on you from the ruling majority. Two days you have been trading, two days have lasted your settlements within the coalition and these are two days lost for this assembly. Both for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia and their money. Just so it's clear to everyone what this is all about. (Natasa Micic, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3871	Please, just a moment. Mr. Prince, did you want to do business? (Gasho Knezevic, from the post: I wanted to do it by the Rules of Procedure, but I prefer the lady. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3872	Mr. Chairman, you have violated the provisions of Articles 101 and 102. The Rules of Procedure, since you have not delivered a warning to the MP, the representative of the SPS, for the reason he has offended me. You're not invited to say whether there's some kind of theft; there are institutions for that. In particular, you are not free from it, although you have immunity, to slander this speaker and to call others accomplices in theft, especially because you are very well informed and you know that I absolutely had no part in it and that I have taken all the steps to examine the matter, that I have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. You, Mr. Obradovic, were at a meeting of all the heads of the parliamentary groups, where I asked you to create a committee of inquiry or committee, which would investigate the issue, but, of course, the opposition did not want to participate in it, such as the failure of the opposition, which was to be present here by the Rules of Procedure and to control the ruling majority, just as the disputed matter had taken place. You are not a lawyer, Mr. Obradic, but it would not be a bad thing to use the word theft to read in Criminal Law what the definition of theft is: "Whoever intends to get himself or another illegal property benefit, takes someone else's property," so it wasn't about that, and if you want to qualify for it, then it could be a criminal act of abuse. Mr. Obradovic, I think you have earned the punishment and I call on Mr. Chairman to give notice to MP Zarko Obradovic for this difficult qualification, or because of his love and style, he will miss it. Even so, when you are so eager to compare yourself with the previous call, I would like to remind you that the previous meeting has never had a problem in the work, that is, a third of the MPs present – 84. That's easy, gentlemen, to check. There was never once a lack of quorum due to the absence of a third of the MPs. Therefore, on the basis of Article 82(2), I ask that the quorum be checked, let's see, gentlemen, how many of you are in the O.R. (Branislav Ristivojevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3873	Mrs. Micic, you had no trouble working when you used MP cards that were not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3874	I'd like to advertise one violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3875	I'm sorry, they were looking for a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3876	So what if they were looking for a quorum. I don't care, there's enough of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3877	Here you go, then after the exposure, we'll determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3878	No, no, I'll speak first, because here in this room, they take the right to speak to the people's MPs who are not present. It's the height of the shamelessness. Mrs. Micic won't give the quorum here, take out the card, and ask for the right to go out for this pay phone. That's rude. Your card wasn't inserted. I left, and I checked, and that's rude. Now you've got it in. You don't even have the right to go out until you're present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3879	Thank you. Let's figure out the quorum first. Please insert the cards to determine the quorum. Mrs. Micic, you haven't inserted the card again. (Nataša Micic, from the site: The card has been inserted. You put it in later. Here you go, Mr. Prince. (Natasa Micic, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure.) It's the same in the Rules of Procedure, as far as I know. Please, Mrs. Micic, you have no word. (Nataša Micic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I have an advantage. No, you didn't get the word. There's someone before you who answered. Mr. Knezevic is now giving up and don't take your word for it, you have to get the word. [[Natasa Micic, from the place: I have the right to a replica. Just one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3880	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96, Mr. Chairman, you have offended me, my card has been inserted all along and you have just proven that the chairman cannot at all times control whether the MPs have inserted the cards into the hall. Therefore, you have offended me. (It is said from the hall: warning, warning...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3881	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 100, distinguished colleague Mrs. Micic is lying. I went to the O.R., and I looked at her place, and the card was taken out, and that's why I came out here to react. You're lying. (Nataša Micic, from the site: You can check it out. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3882	Mr. Beard, you have your word. Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know that representatives of the former government and Mrs. Micic hurt when they mention things they've done in the past three years and they would certainly want to forget about it themselves, but they won't be able to, because the state authorities will in the meantime do their job. I remain with what I have said, and now I will get to know the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and my colleagues even more in detail why I said - an accomplice in stealing. The fact is that Ms. Micic only declared one false parliamentary group, despite the evidence we offered, and did so in spring 2002, and the Constitutional Court made a decision in May 2003. So for a year and a few days those seven MPs were giving the roof to DOS and helping them practically live politically. The fact is that she did not want to announce to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the decision on the resignations that these MPs gave, which we delivered to the National Assembly president on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The fact is, we couldn't get a list from the disputed vote on the election, Kora Udovicki, and we only got it after two and a half months, although the Rules of Procedure said that any parliamentary group could get a vote, because on the first day, after that vote, we said there was a theft in the vote. The fact is, on the RTS TV show, she publicly deceived the public by claiming that we got that list. The fact is that we have filed criminal charges with the Second Prosecutor's Office and the criminal charges are in the process, where four crimes committed by Ms. Micic as chairman are listed. I know she doesn't like to hear it, but what you're going to do, that's true, that's what she did, and a lot of bad things, and that's what needs to be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3884	According to the Rules of Procedure? Please, just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3885	Ladies and gentlemen, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99 and 100. First, I don't think it really makes sense for the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia to be harassed by one parliamentary group and by one MP. At the end of the line, maybe that's not so bad. Let the people and citizens of Serbia see who was V.D. The president of Serbia and let the future take care of whom they will choose, so that they may not have such a V.D. again. The president of Serbia. If the DOS, the moment he was to step into power, took his MPs to a doctor's appointment... But it seems that the medical examination has not been done according to all the medical codes and, of course, it can be seen today in this room. I believe there is no reason for anyone to be euphoric, that no one has reason to harass the National Assembly and the People's MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, and I think we should return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3886	Here you are, Mr. Knezevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I thought you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3887	I didn't. Article 97 There's been a complete confusion of government here. The legislative authority has turned into a judiciary. Many have already said something that is inadmissible. Don't do it wrong. Please give it up, let's get back to the subject. It's the only thing we can do. But, please, this is to be addressed from this pay phone by any MP, and that the chairman allows it, Mr. Chairman, please let us sort things out somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3888	Thank you. I was just trying to give both sides a word, so that it would be to the point of truth and objectivity. Now let's get to the agenda. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Masic, and let Branislav Stevanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in every country, education of children and youth is one of the most important sociological and social processes. Our country had a very respectable, classical and traditional system of primary and secondary education. The DOS government has significantly destroyed it by quasireforming and rough copying the Western system of education. But fortunately, she didn't have time to reform higher education like this "successfully". I hope that we will not have the reforms of higher education that we had in pre-school, primary and secondary education through the law that we are changing today. It is therefore very important that, at the beginning of the proposal to amend this law, you make a proposal to redefine the objectives and tasks of education and education, and they should certainly mean developing awareness of national and national membership, fostering Serbian tradition and culture, as well as traditions and cultures of national minorities and ethnic communities. It is very important that, through the curriculum and the basic and secondary education programme, we return to the culture of Serbian language, Cyrillic letters, as well as the emphasis of our significant cultural followers, the historical figures of our people, since, unfortunately, in the past, through certain textbooks, we have had the neglect of such personalities. It should no longer happen that anyone in the barn is making fun of Vuk Karadzic or St. Sava. I advocate that basic and secondary education programmes include the latest achievements of science and culture throughout the world, especially to increase the level of information education, which is important for youth and our generations. Madam Minister, this amendment, which you have offered us, is, in my assessment, one set of existing laws and a small number of new essential and better solutions, but to begin with, it is enough that some retrograde things, which have started to happen in our basic education, stop quickly and hope that, when we adopt this proposal, you will focus first and foremost on the interest of a more successful and better education of our youth. It is also a good proposal to establish a national educational council here in parliament. However, he should not take some of the information that you gave him as a ministry, which I believe should be within the jurisdiction of the ministry itself. It is precisely the adoption of curricula and programmes and responsibility for the implementation of these curricula and programmes, not just to be part of your competence, i.e. part of the final and graduation exam, as well as the preschool programme, plans and programmes of primary and secondary education, because these are essential things for one ministry, and ultimately responsibility for the realization of that. It is significant that the advice has a function in determining the quality of teaching standards. However, some definitions intertwine with university curricula and programmes. It is most likely to be possible to make some common arrangements, since it is in the portfolio of a ministry. I have several complaints regarding the way and procedure of selecting members of the council. First of all, I absolutely welcome that the council should be representatives of the SAN, of extraordinary, of correspondence members or of regular members. Needless to say, they should be regular teachers. Unfortunately, in our Academy of Sciences are mostly all regular professors, and we have few members of the Academy that docents or extraordinary professors, because this would talk about extremely highly gifted young people, that through their scientific research they have come to the title of academics or a regular member of the SAN. What I would particularly like to object to, first of all as a teacher and professor at the University of Novosad, through this proposal that four members of Belgrade University be delegated, and from all other universities, I think they are being put in a somewhat humiliating position just the University of Novosad and Nischi. I don't know what motivated you to make such a proposal, Belgrade's only four times bigger than Novi Sad, but Belgrade University is certainly not four times the number of teachers, by the number of students, the quality of teaching is better and more effective than the University of Novosad. I suggest you consider the amendment to this proposal, as well as the proposal for members of the council to be representatives of the employers' association. We have a large number of professional schools and whether someone who is going to be in front of that employers' association is going to be very competent to give an assessment of consent, an opinion on so many professional schools. Anyway, this is the concept you've offered I think it deserves attention and it's better than the previous law. But in that part of the exhibition, you said that you advocated rationalisation, more efficient spending of funds, which I welcome, but it seems to me that the formation of two institutions – an institution for improving education and education and the evaluation of the quality of education and education, and, in our opinion, from the SRS, they are superfluous and could be done not through the formation of an institution as bearer of these jobs, but through some permanent or occasional commissions, or through smaller operating bodies, which would do what the Centre for Strategic Development or Center for the Development of Programmes and textbooks. We think it would be more rational and cheaper for the state. What I would also like to look back on, and what my predecessors, above all colleagues from the SRS, were saying, is passing exams for the director. I think it's too much to put in office as a principal in primary and secondary schools compared to a vice president or a college dean, even though it can't be compared. But the director, if you were to choose on the proposal you're making and that the teaching council gives consent, i.e. to compete with the most prominent, most authoritative and most capable teacher in a school, and to be supported by the Council, then I don't think he should have any special education to perform the director's duties and pass a special exam in front of the authorities of the administration. Then it's still a professional exam that I'm saying the directors and other teachers should have. I hope you'll consider it through the amendments. In the end, due to limited time, I advocate a real reform and rationalization of secondary vocational schools. I think you'll all agree that we have a large number of upper secondary schools, that when the children finish those schools they find it extremely difficult to find work and that they should also significantly review the number of schools and curricula. I also advocate that the Ministry make an effort to significantly increase and improve the material position of all participants in the educational process, from pre-school institutions, primary schools, secondary and university schools, although I am not talking about the university today. You will agree that both profits and all other contributions to these institutions, education holders, are low, and in order to increase the quality and efficiency of learning, I think that segment must be significantly improved. In the end, I would like to express my hope that, in addition to those accepted amendments by the SRS, you will accept others we have given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3890	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is quite said by my colleagues from the SRS. The amendments themselves say the same thing. I would refer to another topic, which is a physical education in elementary school, given that I spent a long time as a athlete and as a football coach, mostly younger categories. I would point out something, it's a co-ordination of the work of the school board, which is more of a political body. I'd like to say that the environment in which these schools are located, especially children who start their physical development and commitment to various sports activities since the fourth, fifth year, now have no adequate opportunities to deal with sports for the reason that this past government has given this desperate treatment, which our sport has fallen into a stalemate, suddenly stopped funding amateur sport. Our children are on their own. We have cases where parents don't have any funding opportunities, because it takes 30 euros a month to deal with amateur sports, many parents don't have those opportunities, the environment in which they are located provides absolutely nothing and children are left to themselves. The aim of education and education itself is certainly professional education, further training and professional training. However, one more thing here is not said, let's say, the national advice dealing with student burden statistics in schools knows, I think it's a little exaggerated, especially when considering high-school schools, where they have too many objects that are burdened by students, especially professional equipment, where excess items are accumulated. I'd like to pay particular attention to the development center and the textbook program. I think there's a lot of exaggeration here with foreign expressions used in new textbooks, and hence the remarks of your colleagues, professors and lecturers, you have them for sure, on that rich and overcrowded repertoire of foreign words. Our Serbian language has been too neglected and should have seen this behavior in the further formation of textbooks. I'd like to give an example, when I mentioned sports and education, in the formation of a football player or athlete. In order to affirm one football player or athlete needs big funds, and we all know how much it costs from the fourth, fifth years to the eighteenth. The young man when the line goes abroad and the funds are mostly returned, and perhaps a small profit. However, when we take our experts who are mostly known in the world, it confirms that the quality of our schooling so far has been very high and that it is not to be underestimated, as Mr. Gasho wants to say with his demagogue story. I think that's where we should consider our huge loss, material loss, as well as personnel loss. We all have kids, and when we educate our kids, they graduate from college, they go abroad. I don't need to comment further on how much we're here on material and moral loss. I would also like to say about the student parliament, gentlemen from the G17 plus misbehaving, and also gentlemen from the Democratic Party. We, the MPs of the SRS, have come out to welcome the Russian delegation, and the parliament is constantly talking, and it is clear that no speaker can adequately state his position, to be heard. What an example of giving our children, and I believe that the student parliament is one of the superfluous things in the draft of this law. I had a lot to say, but I leave the word to my colleague, since the minute is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3892	On what basis do you want the word? Direct mention of the name by the previous speaker, the right to the replica of MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3893	The previous speaker only has some data, so he knows about the quality of our school. When we formed the Ministry of Education in 2001, we found 14,550 new students and more than 40,000 students on the correctional exam. It's data on the quality of our school. Let's not sneak into the story of the quality of school in these areas. That's not true. Today I downloaded the Internet-presentation of Mathematical High School. The mathematical high school has called for a seventh grade math class competition. If they make this competition come true, they'll go according to the program that we've brought and I signed that solution. This law changes that. I don't know what's gonna happen to those kids and how she's gonna get back into the regulatory system. The former director of the Mathematical High School is the assistant minister. These data are very disturbing; date 27 May 2004; internet presentation of the Mathematical High School.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3894	The word has the People's MP Dragutin Peric. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group for a minute and 30 seconds. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3895	To use this time and to remind the MPs and the public that amendments and additions to the Laws on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System have been approached with the aim of adapting the concept of the development of the entire system of education to the times and conditions in which this process can take place with us, while retaining the trends that are presented in the existing law. If you had the opportunity to read those members, you saw that it was the same law, the institution was the centres, the centres were teams, the advice not three but one, pure cosmetics, and it was just strange to me that human vanity influenced the creator of that reform to submit some amendments. This is the same law. Of course, these amendments want to improve the law and say it's not enough to put the word "national" into the law in three or four places. It's not enough. I hope that on the occasion of the amendment, we will show a conceptual disagreement with this bill, which does not reform the unreformed Gazan law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3896	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not yet used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia, another ten-minute announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3897	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honored Presidency, the Socialist Party of Serbia, that is, our parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. It'll back up and there's a lot of reasons. I wish these changes had come before, that it was possible, especially if there were more, because the changes in the education and education system, and what is called the education and education system in Serbia, are necessary, and this law does not cover enough. It is paradoxical, but true, that today or yesterday, when we started talking about this law, for the first time we have the opportunity to present to the end of the Serbian public what we think of the previous law on education and education. I'm not saying this by accident. It should be recalled that critics of this law and those who say in public that the existing law was passed at a time of extended emergency. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed Serbia's law in disgrace without direct TV transmission. There was no need for Serbia's public to become familiar with such a fundamental law as this, it was adopted without public presence. I know what it looked like, because at a time of extended emergency, or at the time of DOS rule, only what the DOS wanted could come out. Usually the discussions between the SPS and the SRS were carried in style at the time -- they were against it. Why, on the basis of which the arguments are against, it was not possible to declare to the public. It should be recalled that the basics of this law were discussed without the opinion of the primary school, secondary school, university, academy, and after the criticisms that were on the Committee on Education in the Serbian Assembly; faster or better, some round tables were scheduled, of course with the same-minded, so that it could be said that it was the law at the public hearing. TV shows were organised, but again with selected participants and finals followed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the team then spent a lot of media and talked about the concept and others couldn't say anything. So I say this is the first, unfortunately, opportunity for MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to say what they think of the existing law. That law was very bad. We said then and we repeat now that this law was chaotic, and it is chaotic, unconsistent, it has taken over solutions from several laws and probably from several different countries. It lacks sufficient emphasis on protected public interests in the field of education. He was a restrictive and discriminatory character, very far from the declared objectives of democratisation, decentralisation and professionalization. Now I'm going to repeat something that I said on behalf of the parliamentary group at the time, and you'll see that there are reasons for this sentence. "Alongly this law will cost Serbia, it will cost expensive because the existing education and education system first collapses, and it does not offer a new and better, better quality, and for the collapse of the existing system a number of people will get good income." We were in a position to hear the past days from the Minister that richly rewarded people who praised this law or if they didn't praise him had found a way to solve it and to materially improve their situation. There was certainly not so much concern about education and education, and I have to mention something that I heard from my colleagues in education as much as it was about the profession, that seminars after the adoption of this law, educational seminars, were held by students of different universities, who were lower education levels than those who held these seminars. It says in itself enough what he was or what he was one of the objectives of the existing law. So I'm saying, this law is bad. It is good that these amendments have been submitted to the Law on Education and Education, but they are not enough. The only thing that can be praised, and about the previous law, is that they had very good marketing. The law is talked about and talked about all the time – reform, reform. When you ask what's reform, no one can tell you. That's why the citizens of Serbia and through Infostan's payments, and through paid ads, and through the set-up of TV shows, were bombarded about how epochal knowledge and innovation was introduced by this law; like, education is not good, so let's change it, without saying a word about what was bad in previous education. Not many words should be spent, and it should be reminded that our students and students are almost in all countries of the world at the top, if not the first when scores are being added up, and especially the first in different competitions. It was known to everyone, not to those who passed that law. It's a good thing these amendments and additions are passed. It is good to form a national educational council instead of three existing ones. We think this is the final profession that's coming back to the profession. We expect the National Educational Council to bring an education strategy to Serbia and to stop education from being the subject of a political party or one political option. I think it is good that the minister has respected the amendments of MPs who have proposed that a member of the University of Pristina be included in the council, because that dimension has far greater meaning than the word itself says, or that formulation has meaning from the point of view of the state and what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. It is good that it is accepted that a representative of the Mother of the Serbian and the Community of Teachers' Colleges is in this council. We think it's all good stuff. The Council needs to do what the law says in the future. We think it's a good thing that two institutions are formed related to the education and education system instead of the previous seven centers. We mentioned earlier, and I don't think there's a lot of words to be spent, as expensive as it was, and we don't think it helped improve the education and education system. The third good thing about changing and supplementing this law is that this periodic extension of the license is lifted. This finally restored the dignity of teachers in Serbia. We think that finally, at least in education, it was an abolished lustration, because that licensing every five years was a different name for lustration. We saw the DOS act according to proposals for the appointment of principals of primary and secondary schools and that the political arguments were completely dominant, and when it was not possible to avoid being appointed, it was delayed using the provisions of the law until the end of the term. It's a good thing the duration of education is divided into two cycles, four plus four, with a zero class in preschool education. It is a good thing that the curricula programs are back and that they are given advice. There is more that is good in these amendments and additions to the Law on the Education and Educational System. I have to say, some things may need to be explained. I expect the minister to say a few words about making textbooks, whether it will be regulated by special law or will apply this provision restrictively, as students may happen to be brought into an inferior position, that is to say, to learn many textbooks in relation to the number of subjects required by them in the class. There are other things that can be clarified in this debate or through the amendments, but it is undeniable to amend it and supplement the law should be passed and it is undeniable that Serbia needs to establish a system of education and education that will not be the subject of one party, political agreement, which will be a national matter, a state matter, and which will help the state of Serbia to take a step in a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3898	The word is from MP Gašo Knezevic, the authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, another announcement, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3899	The respected chairman, respected minister, dear colleagues, friends, I am fully aware that the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will not prevent this new law from being passed. Also, I'm aware of something else. Unless all of them are adopted, or at least some of them, and this will not, from the proposal of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, and are adopted except for some honorable exceptions, other MPs' proposals, the law will go further and further than the system. So we won't have the system. The system was created without any influence from the international community, autonomously, based on two-and-a-half years of work by 500 people and 25,000 analytically systematiced talks with people from the system, three tours of Serbia, and one in union co-operation, six books and countless publications on the education strategy, three consultations at the Sava Centre. His goal was to give our children a chance to be better and, if necessary, different from us, our parents and teachers. They were our only protective facility. We don't know what irritated the people of the current ministry to say that the new protective facility is a teacher instead of a child. Thus, the person who made the statement showed and disqualified herself from respecting all teachers, teachers, and teachers of this country. Only by the way, but I'm going to tell you that this new government, under the guise of legalism and the desire to rebuild institutions, is installing into our parliamentary life, introduces a limited procedure of law-making. Here's what's coming out of it. These aren't, first of all, changes and additions, this is a new law. We also agreed with the Government's representative, i.e. The new minister and I yesterday in front of the cameras, the truth in separate statements. When the law was passed, no legal procedure was respected, no member of the 12th law, which binds everything, and especially the Serbian government, because no opinion of the bodies that were legitimately and legally created on the basis of the law was sought. A private relationship with members of that body is his personal problem. This private relationship is not entered and must not be entered into the state function, and what this time, through statements, is seen, done. From the moment of adoption of the draft by the government to the introduction of the Assembly, it has been a long time. This misunderstanding with the agenda if it hadn't come up would have been even less time. Two public debates are known to me, one organised by SONIK, the non-existent university, and the other at the Faculty of Teachers, which was a press conference, not a public debate. There was secrecy in the preparation of the law, said the Minister herself, in the City Assembly, before the Belgrade school directors. The Educational Committee discussed the law in principle for an hour, and what kind of discussion was according to the amendments: completely chaotic, and I don't want to pass on that atmosphere to you, because there's something that needs to be kept out of the public eye. I told you that we have four key words for a modern education system. These words are: institutionalisation, professionalisation, decentralisation and measurement, i.e. efficiency. I won't tell you that again. All this guarantees quality, and what was done with the new text? In the field of institutionalisation, the lack of strategy and knowledge has led to a lack of understanding of the importance and functions of individual centres founded in 2003 and the desire to settle in one institution. Later on, fortunately, it gave up, and now we have two entities of rights outside the ministry. An unfortunate statement was made under the pressure of some political associates; therefore, ministry people said that they are making concessions to the international community, or not because of 10m euros, but because of 500m euros. That's a pretty indicative conclusion. So, we're bargaining for the price, everything else is clear, it's just the price problem. Okay, okay, so the confusion of jurisdiction is the general consequence of a lack of understanding of the system. For example, it is equative that the graduation program is within the competence of strategic development, and needs an evaluation centre; teachers value the institution, not supervision, which would be logical; standards are prescribed by the MPS, and that is the Ministry of Education and Sports, not the Centre for Evaluation. The procedure for appointing the Educational Council is so complicated, with short deadlines, that it will repeat the Story of the Broadcasting Council, and if it is established, there is no way to agree and bring a strategy of any kind. That wide body can't be operational. In the field of professionalization, respect for teachers is reportedly due to this text, which is a farce, a member of 118 says it clearly - suspension. You're suspending a teacher who's somehow working, an insufficient procedure can lead to arbitration, and I don't want that to happen. Professional training is reduced from the level of obligation to the level of desire of teachers; and what if he doesn't want it? When you ask children if they want to learn, you will get an answer from a very small number that they want to learn, and teachers are given the legal right, by the way, to the gray economy, because in one member of the norm, a ban on giving lessons to children of the same school. In other words, it gives classes to kids from another school, not just your own, because it's a moral violation, and if you give other kids, that's okay, that's moral. A special story is seminars. A road has been crossed in their field from negative to affirmation of international co-operation. The first sentence was - what we need international seminars, dictated by the international community terms of work and form, and the last sentence was - we will cooperate, no problem, all seminars of the international community can run. It's the same in the field of decentralisation and in the field of efficiency, too, I won't repeat it because of time. If the basic assumption that we are all in this congregation is well-intentioned, and when it comes to education, I believe, I wonder what causes such irrational behavior? If I'm allowed to step away from enlightenment as an esnaf, I'd be willing to conclude that's fear. As a state, Serbia lives in fear, a cramped space that slows it down, paralyzes it, makes it an introverted aggressor, who prepares to pour his aggression as a bile, amongst his residents, most often weak, who are suitable to be victims, who may unpunished, because ours, when we can't already pour out the bile, are out of it, because of sanctions and potential threats of isolation. Fear is Serbia's past, present and future. From the past, because there's not enough power to face it, which would give us the right to draw a line. For mistakes and sinners of the past, the future is sacrificed. The right to remind her of the past, which has been taken over by the international community, she exhibits in a foolish and tactless way, which gives birth to frustration in the people and brings new aggression into the shell of the state. No one understands us for ourselves, we're so specific that we're unique. Egoism and egocentricism, which is born in an empty space between the world and us, egoism becomes our Chinese wall, the fate of intellectual and medical justification. Fear is of the present, for she is aware that there is no solution and answers to the question of mere survival. The question of serious progress in this country has not yet been raised. When we're honest with ourselves, we admit that we need help on the side, maybe foreign money, but not foreign investors, because he doesn't understand us, he's a stranger. Xenophobia government. We don't need foreign organizations either, management, because it represents standards, we need help today, when we're aware, we need treatment, but we don't need a doctor, but we're going to do it in our own traditional kitchen. In this country, they're making fun of each other. It's a prank on kids, it's a prank on their parents, it's a prank on teachers, and unfortunately, it's a prank on the state itself. The state, because illiteracy, irrational costs of poor education, lack of personnel, institutions, social differences and poverty, legalisation of the gray economy, pouring humus on the fertile soil of private schools, increasing, we will lose the game with private schools very quickly, the law does not require additional funding, and education is extended. (President: 11 minutes. I'm sorry, really, for the sake of time, I wish you all the best at implementing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3900	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not exploited their rights, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a Nardoni MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3901	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the official absence of Mr Pajtic, I will explain the amendment he has submitted, which I personally support and, of course, supported by the DS parliamentary group. The amendment reads: "Article 1. The bill is deleted." In our opinion, there was no need for an old age 3 member to change, because he essentially, in addition to the article in the title that used to read -- the objectives of education and education, and now there are goals and tasks of education and education, the most important thing that he foresees is the erasure of attitude 1, and this attitude is extremely important and should not be deleted. I will read it; the objectives of education and education under Article 3 are: "The work of education and education is done to provide and find optimal conditions for the formation of individual and social characteristics of children, students and adults who contribute to their overall development, the development of a democratic society, and the changing world. "We do not understand what is controversial in this text and which is why it is proposed to delete Article 1 in article 3 of the Old Law. Other additions concerning the proposed Article 1. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education System concerns, therefore, only this heading supplement, where it is inserted – and the tasks. In Article 5, the Old Law says – developing awareness of state and nationality, fostering tradition and culture; it is an addition to Serbian traditions and cultures and traditions of national minorities. So in the previous text, it was all covered. The same shall apply to Article 11(2). That is why I call on the MPs, regardless of what the proposal is or is precisely because it is the legislator of the DS Group, to support this proposal, because we have been really all this time on the Education Committee, and we have been really constructive in the approach itself. And despite the fact that we think that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is not good, we believe that certain improvements can be made, because this law does not concern any parliamentary group and any party in particular, but concerns our children, our future. Therefore, I call on you to support this proposal, and the party differences to put into another plan, regardless of what the election campaign is under way, so they are probably also burdened by an election campaign, so it seems to me that there have been some discussions that have gone a little far from what our basic goal is. We have a great candidate, and we have no reason to talk about him when it comes to details.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3902	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3903	Article 1 contains the objectives and tasks of education. Each country provides for certain objectives in parallel-law. What is noticeable is the unification of objectives among all European countries, and this unification of objectives has been done in the framework of the European Council by making a decision of the European Commission in 2002 B. Compared to those objectives that Europe retains for itself, our objectives are something specific, but they overlap well. This proposal now given goes on the dangerous edge of the issue of the nation and the church, and their touch. But, I must admit, he's quite skillfully formulated, so, in my court, there's no basis for requesting intervention before the Constitutional Court because of the separation of the church and the state, etc. But the spirit that remains, that's what the proposer would have wanted to do, and that's binding to the nation and tradition. What's the problem, it's because of that international community. The national tradition and cultures and cultures of minorities are mentioned. That's true and that's good, however, in the composition of the council there I think you give too few representatives of minorities, but on that path. (Natasa Micic, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3904	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, the MP of the people, Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3905	Madam Chairman, Article 79 has been injured. Rules of Procedure - all draft laws and acts must be prepared in accordance with the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure. I therefore remind myself that yesterday I have advertised an infringement of Article 157, which says that, for the adoption of an emergency procedure, the legislator of the law, so Madam Minister, must state in an explanation that these are exceptional circumstances which could not be foreseen and which would result in adverse consequences. I remind you that the minister has not given an explanation. I appeal to Article 220 and ask that MPs get that explanation. I think that in this way, the adoption of such an important law by emergency procedure, the fact is that the institution of the National Assembly is degraded, and the bill itself is bad and leads to the degradation of not only school institutions, but the most important institutions in this matter, which is student. Therefore, Madam Minister, on behalf of young generations, I ask you to withdraw such a bad bill in accordance with article 139.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3906	According to your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, as I already have information that the President of the Assembly has promised you an explanation, so I don't think I can give it to you, he'll have to. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3907	Ladies and gentlemen, there's no need for me to introduce myself separately, just to add that I'm from the SRS parliamentary group. By the way, I've been doing this enlightening job for a long time. I don't want to find out now. First, I am dissatisfied that the amendments to the law came after an emergency procedure. I brought in a whole bunch of paper and the entire election campaign didn't bother me as much as I could with all this. The amendment will come to order, and in particular I will have something to say about the amendment, one dissatisfaction. So that past law and these changes almost brought nothing new. If the amendments to the SRS were passed, this law could pass. You know that excise laws, courts can be changed, and you can change judges, and prices, and whatever can be changed, but the child can't change. One day you give birth to him, one day you educate him, and if you educate him in the wrong direction, there is no more going back. If I came back, I wouldn't get a warning. To Article 1. I've submitted an amendment to the bill. In Article 3. The law on the foundations of the education and education system is point 6 – enabling integration into European integration processes. I just made a proposal to make it universal and I don't see anything that's controversial about it. Afterwards, I see that the amendment to the SPS was adopted, that I do not read who submitted it, but I see by the names that they are, it says something similar – European and international integration. I'm interested in whether this is my opposite, whether Europe is something extraordinary and what's left is international. Therefore, I think that this amendment should have been adopted and stood for "general integration", and I urge that you change the decision that that amendment that was accepted should not be accepted, but that its title be adapted to this universal integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3908	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3909	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment concerns Article 3 of the existing law, where the objectives and tasks of education and education are defined. Point 6 of this article states that one of the objectives of education and education is to enable integration into European integration processes. It's a point that hasn't been changed by changes and additions. So she's the one left in the existing law. The promoter didn't intervene there. We believe that today, thanks to modern technologies, the whole world is becoming a global village, the possibility of connecting Serbia with other continents should not be excluded. After all, why would they only connect this education system with Europe, not America, South America or Asia, etc. We believe that here we need to make this change and put our words -- universal integration. We heard it on the Education Committee from Mrs. Colic. saw that there was a single fear and fear that this word - the European word - was erased from the bill. There is simply a tendency for Europe to remain present, in any way, in this law. I would like Mrs Colic to come out now and say why she insists on Europe and the presence of Europe in this law. That the whole Serbian public hears it and knows what the reasons are. Who's blackmailing it. When he puts pressure on it. Who is funding projects like this in Serbia and whether Serbian citizens will accept these blackmails and these pressures. Those blackmails and pressures have been before. And the existing law is written and brought to various pressures and blackmails on the side. However, the previous ministry was not justified. It embraced all that the international community dictated and did not justify itself to the citizens of Serbia at all. It accepted and represented those interests. This ministry accepts, but it's looking for some excuse. It is necessary to say openly, clearly and loudly whether we are under the protection, whether we are being blackmailed, whether we are being pressured, who is threatening us and why we have to accept some of the rules that the international community requires, and even in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3910	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go. Excuse me, People's Parliament, we have an MP who's reporting and advocating the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, People's Messenger to Natasa Micic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3911	Madam Chairman, you obviously didn't get me very well. This time I'm advocating a violation of Article 221. Rules of Procedure: "The MP shall have the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." Yesterday, 24.00 hours ago, and I repeat today, I also asked the President of the Assembly, and I did not get an explanation, but also from the Minister, to give us an explanation, because there is a procedural flaw, which is, in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the exceptional circumstances that could not be foreseen and why this law was put into effect by an emergency procedure, would result in adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, by the work of organs and organisations, or by the safety of the country. Once again, since I think this is the ignoring of the MPs and the National Assembly, by the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 100, I insist that the Minister give an explanation in this part, unless he already withdraws it under Article 139. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3912	I'm afraid you didn't understand me. As far as I know, the president promised you a stay. I can't give you an explanation on his behalf, but if you don't like my answer, you can ask the Assembly to make that clear. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3913	That, anyway. I remain on request to be answered by the Administrative Board, but I also refer to Article 221 which obliges the Minister to give me such an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3914	Your advertising will be declared by the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm reporting for the first time because this is a very complex topic, sensitive and very important to the state, for the people and for ourselves. At point 3 of the old law, I think a better solution in terms of the proposal for education goals is. What I would particularly point out, which is not discussed during these discussions, is training for work. This is about the teaching process, about teaching plans and programmes, about children, about teachers, about the conditions, about everything, but the very needs to train young people to work a little is said Our children have to be educated, but it's not enough to be educated and smart, they have to be ready and to do something, to earn, to live from that work. I'll give you some practice experience. Before, there were much better opportunities to work because the economy worked better. We're making registration plans today. When it comes to enrolment policy, you know that schools write up competitions, and sometimes it's based on the number of benches in the department, depending on the profession and the profession, and the businessmen were a bit of an opportunity to show their needs. In general, the entire text of the law does not show a more significant impact of the economy on the process of education and education, with a view to meeting the needs of personnel, for certain technological procedures, depending on technology and procedures. It is especially important that you have now found a network of schools that is the way it is, you have found a certain material state in education, and a very difficult material situation in the economy says that schools do not have good working conditions, that our cabinets and classrooms are technically poorly equipped, that children have nowhere to do practice, that they can later do their job successfully, and it is far harder to ensure that the child performs a traineeship, so that he can work on his own later. To understand what I'm talking about, I'm going to present the experience we've gained at the time we've done well. The company plans the necessary staff for a period of three to five years, as the process of education lasted so long. So, you need to know in advance what the company needs, to show its needs, that is, that is, that education, ministry, school, create conditions to educate the people who are in need right now. After finishing school, a young generation can be employed and perform the function for which it is educated. What was our practice? So we have our own plans, we know our plans in a 100-mile radius at the municipal level, in a single education policy -- how many children we have in a generation that needs to be educated in the first year of high school. I'm talking about high school and getting kids ready to work. It's similar to the colleges. We know the number of children. We know the number of boys and girls. We know what the economy needs and we insist on meeting those curricula and programmes for these conditions. Then, we talk to the kids in elementary school, we start doing something on the plan of professional orientation, we prepare the kids and we say, you get scholarships, we pay for the doctor's exams, we get them into school, we school them, we create conditions for practical teaching and we hire a whole generation. That's how the economy provided itself with human resources. How do we do it today? You're not in a position to be helped by the economy, and if you're asking for an economy, any economic branches, to show you your needs for personnel, for a period of three to five years, you won't have that option. Then how to educate children, and to keep children busy, have the cost of education they have acquired, not to educate children for the labour market, for the record of the National Employment Service. The process would be like this – to see how many structurings we have on the employment market records. To look at how much it is possible in which branches to employ staff, what level of education, which profiles and what professional arrangements, to create conditions in schools to help children because the student standard is bad. It travels from remote places to schools, which is expensive today, it is difficult to choose the profession and interest of the child'saffinity, according to real needs and employment opportunities, because our schools are far away. Where municipalities are underdeveloped, where villages are directed to the melad cities... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's hard to create conditions for children to be educated just for those directions and professions they'd like. If they know and if there's anyone to help them, they'll commit to what their waist is. I'll finish my story with this: Madam Minister, you have a very difficult task, a lot of work, you have to roll up your sleeves... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... If our programs are old, then we can't educate our children by the old program. We need to be current, new programs, new technological processes, and that's how we're going to get involved in world integration, just by knowledge. So you have a lot of hard work to do, and you have to hire people from the economy, experienced, competent people, with a lot of knowledge and from all walks of social life. That's how you'll succeed in your life. Everything you do will be of use. Anything you don't do, you don't get to do, you may not see what the adverse consequences are... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... But they will be present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3916	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Zivorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3917	The honourable Members, in this article, when we talk about the objectives and tasks of education and education, are listed points, including point 8 – adoption, understanding and development of basic social and moral values of a democratically regulated, human and tolerance society. Today we are in transition and we are instituting liberal capitalism, and liberal capitalism is America from the time of prohibition, when the abductions of social property and robbery are on stage. We're practically introducing the worst form of capitalism. Some say it's bandit capitalism, because everything that's been created for decades has been translated into private pockets. Children talk about human and social society, when a huge number of children have nothing to eat; how are we going to convince them that it's a social and human society; when children of newly-compromised rich people live in abundance, and a large number of working children don't have a chance to graduate from college, they don't even have a chance for high school. So, in times of transition, the introduction of liberal capitalism, we talk about social justice, human society, I don't think it's correct, because we can't explain this injustice to children. I couldn't even explain to my medical daughter how the sons of some of our officials, who barely finished high school or bought them, lived in abundance, and those who are excellent students have nothing. I think this should be erased, so that we don't deceive children into going to some human and social society based on social justice, the equal chance of every child finishing all schools possible. They don't even have that chance today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3918	Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? National MP Bosko Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3919	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I adhere to the request by Parliament's Natasa Micic to give the minister a report on the reasons for such treatment when submitting a bill that changes the basis of education. Otherwise, I would like to express my agreement with my predecessor, who has just explained his views on the objectives and values that this law introduces as objectives and tasks of education. I really agree that our values have been disrupted and that this has been going on for a very long time. So I would like to remind my predecessor, who spoke earlier, of the goals and tasks of education, that some schools organized excursions to Pogorec, in Bambilend, precisely with the desire to show how some young people are capable, worthy... (President: You have come forward for the amendment. )......................................................................................................... Yes, I support my predecessor's speech, which gave an explanation of the social and value system that should be the task and purpose of education. I agree that some objectives and tasks and values have been disturbed, that it is necessary to do something about changing objectives and tasks in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3920	Anyone else want a word to this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetislav Krstic and Miloje Savic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals spoke in a debate on the principle that this law is better than the law of Gaza. It would have been even better if the package had been suspended by Gashi's law, so that a new law of education and education could be made, and this law, as proposed, would be better if our amendments were adopted. Our amendments wanted to improve this law, and I believe the citizens of Serbia would accept it both ways. I know that the representatives of the government on the Committee have agreed with our proposals, however, both their and previous government are being blackmailed by international banks, investment and the like. It's 10 million dollars, 50 million dollars, I don't know how much. It would be clear to me that the European mission and the non-governmental organisation of Europe are responding to the Criminal Law, which you have previously discussed, but that it interferes in the education of a country, it really cannot be clear and justified to me, only if it wants to maim us young generations. With this amendment, we wanted to change the essence of this article, we just wanted to throw out the word "openness." I'll read you a part of the point that changes with the amendment – "development in children and students of curiosity and openness for cultures of traditional churches". Isn't it enough to say "inquisitiveness", but also "openness" for cultures of traditional churches. We think this term is ambiguous. We believe that openness to other churches, outside the Serbian Orthodox Church, allows manipulation of our children, especially students aged six-seven years. That is why we have submitted this amendment, which has not changed the essence of the article and point 11 at all. Unfortunately, the representatives of the government, or the Ministry of Education, did not appreciate such a change that may be cosmetic, but the point would be much clearer for all of us, and in particular could not be interpreted ambiguously in the process of education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3922	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3923	I'd like to fence myself in some way from the previous discussion. It has been said that the international community has been pushing both us and the new government. We didn't, we pressured them. The problem is next. You can't live on a desert island. You have to cooperate. Work together to make your co-operation worth it. You'll get co-operation if you know what you need help for, and you don't accept their help because they might want to locate it in the wrong place. So we had a plan and we persuaded them to invest what they wanted, which they allocated funds for Yugoslavia, just for those purposes. Therefore, there was no pressure from the international community. The 2003 law was automatically passed around this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3924	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3925	The fact that the former minister is being fenced from my discussion probably has his reasons. While I was working at the Ministry of Education, we worked a lot on school reform, including observing education and education reform in many European and world countries. We have concluded that there is a charm in education and education there too. Even members of the European Union do not have the same education and education system. However, what you have prescribed from some European Union countries is purely conditioned because it is imposed on our children to throw out our national history, to throw out geography, to form some training camps, education and so forth, and this has been financed from abroad. So they blackmailed you to simply degrade our young generations. We, Mr. Gasco, will never let that happen. It would be wiser if the European Union responded to your criminal law, which you proposed yesterday, where you would place a man in a box for more than seven years, while all this European democracy is not being watched by The Hague tribunal, where Dr Vojislav Seselj is being violated by all human and civil rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3926	By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3927	Serbia is in Europe and unfortunately, or fortunately, there can be no other place. It is very important to preserve national identity, to have awareness of national culture and nationality, but gentlemen of national consciousness and national identity is very important if you have the opportunity to compare it to others, unless you build walls and keep it to yourself. If you are aware that at the same time you are a citizen of Belgrade, a citizen of Novi Sad, Surdulice, Pristina, then Vojvodina, then Serbia, then the Balkans or Southeast Europe, then Europe and the world, that is our goal. We must be citizens of the world, and only then, with all the wealth and quality of the national identity we have, can we be equal. Deprive yourself of the complex of lower values and of national identity only in your homes. National identity is something that should be presented to the world with pride, dignity, with all the wealth we have and should not be ashamed of the fact that our children, unlike many other children, but at the age of 10, speak English well. It's a knowledge that no one can take away from them. There is no need to fear that the national identity, by speaking English, French, Italian, will be compromised. No, that will prove that we have a much higher quality, that we may be more capable, smarter or more aware of the fact that we need languages, that we are sending a message that we are citizens of the world. Please understand that we don't have a second or third time. There is only one way for Serbia, and that is the way to Europe. Other countries are important to us, they are our friends, but Europe is the only way to go. In the 1980s, we were far ahead of countries that are already largely members of the European Union or have already launched a great deal of integration with the European Union. Unfortunately, we are today at the beginning of these integration processes. I hope you will be so active in writing laws that will bring us closer to the European Union, as you are active in throwing me away as I speak for this speaker. That's what I wish you good luck in. To you, Madam Minister, I'd really like to advise you not to be afraid of talking to strangers. You are not a foreign minister, but education is a much broader concept than national culture and it is a pleasure to have contact with the world, because it is proof that the world wants to respect you, so you too have an obligation to respect the world. You also have an obligation to respect this House, so please agree to Article 221 and the request of the MP to give an explanation, which is why this law has been put into effect by an emergency procedure, especially since this request was passed more than 24 hours ago since I've been saying this, at the moment of 13.30. It doesn't make sense, it's not fair. After all, this does not allow you the function you are in, to ignore the demands of the MPs and to ignore this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3928	Anyone else want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3929	The amendment of MP Milan Veselinovic also refers to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamentals of Education, where point 11 defines one of the objectives and tasks of education and education - "development of children and students of curiosity and openness to cultures of traditional churches and religious communities, as well as ethnic and religious tolerances, strengthening trust among children and students and preventing behaviour that violates the right to diversity". We intervened to delete the word "openness" and everything else remains the same, because we believe that this word gives too much space to be ambiguous and in various ways interpreted and that it can be used to encourage children to accept other, foreign religions and neglect of our tradition and culture, that is, our faith. That's why we want to intervene. The possibility remains for a child to gain insight into other churches, religious communities, to be able to vary, to be tolerated, but we believe that this word "openness" is too ambiguous to lead to a situation that teachers, educators, people who work with children encourage children to accept other people's faith and values.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3930	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3931	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group has very seriously prepared amendments to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education. Indeed, with a sincere intention to regulate this law, not only to change the law as legal makeup, but to really put out the force of this law, which is now a positive law, which is still applicable, a law that really went the way not to reverse, but to destroy our young generations, the law that introduced Soros and various sects into our education and our educational institutions. For this reason, the SRS, or our parliamentary group, wants the minister as a representative of the government to seriously consider our amendments. No matter how many amendments are adopted, the work of this congregation continues to be followed and some other amendments may be adopted. There's no reason to say that at the end of this session and any vote, yes, we've changed the law, and we haven't essentially changed anything. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Article 2 to which I have submitted the amendment concerns Article 10 of the Basic Law on Education and Education and talks on the National Educational Council. In the principle debate, we said we had no objection to the establishment of a national educational council. On the contrary, we think it should exist, with all these functions that were put into his law, and possibly even more than that. The point is that we have not put an amendment to abolish this advice, but to give the National Assembly consent to the Rules of Procedure of the Council. I really don't understand the minister that he didn't accept this amendment, which essentially doesn't affect the primary intensities of the ministry regarding this council. I don't see why the advice would be, why would the Ministry and why would those who form the council be afraid of the National Assembly. The National Assembly forms this advice in the way it forms it, from the structures provided for by law. Why, then, is it disputed that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the council is given by the very National Assembly that appoints it. The powers of the council provided for by this law are broad, extremely significant and that is precisely the reason why we have amendedly tried to influence the Assembly to engage in this way, in order to know what the council is doing, how much it respects this law and the decision of this assembly, whether the advice will involve education and the problem of education in Kosovo and Metohija. We have, say, a "Glass of the South" article, and I'm just going to quote one sentence, says, "In high schools, around 60% of qualified workers work, while in primary schools, 90% work. One of the biggest problems is space. Many schools do not have their own building and are located in primary schools. We are working to find a solution to create working conditions." This will be the job of both the Ministry and the Council. The question is the personnel I just quoted here, 60% or 90% of qualified personnel. Problem and space and personnel are not only a problem in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a problem throughout Serbia, and even in large centres. The problem of personnel, let's say, as part of the professional service on the matter of the school secretary, we don't mind... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and we do not say that school secretaries, working 20 and 30 years in high school, should be fired, but the possibility of possible retirement, deployment to other accounting jobs should be considered, since these people are mostly middle-aged, high school or economical. The problem is that during the period from 2000 to today, in many schools the secretaries were just quits, which allegedly did not satisfy professional preparation, but therefore received people and brought mostly representatives... (Chairman: Please, time.) )......................................................................................................... The DOS coalition, here I am ending, and of course these people don't have the proper training, and that should be the subject of debate here and of course the work of the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3932	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3933	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I'd like to ask you to put a little order here in the O.R., since nothing is heard worse in the last rows than what's said at the pay phone. We have submitted an amendment to this Article 2, where we would like to add one more position, to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly give consent. What did we do that for? According to this concept submitted by the promoter here, the council is elected by the National Assembly and this advice brings the Rules of Procedure on its work. There's no other act but the Rules of Procedure. So, the rules of procedure will regulate all relations within the council, not jurisdiction, but the way the council works will be regulated by the rules of procedure. We already have a problem in the next article. In Article 3, although I will talk about this later, it is said that half of the members of the council will have a term of office for three years, or twice as short as expected for the other members of the council. There are no criteria on which to determine that half. Who's gonna do it? If you let it not be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, that the Assembly does not give consent to the Rules of Procedure, then this advice, which is quite heterogeneous in its composition, will deal with itself. So it's going to take a huge amount of time to determine some of the rules of conduct between individual members, which will represent the interests of the environment or the groups from which they come, and we're going to have a waste of time. The council will deal with its problems. He's not going to do the job he's in charge of, and he's not going to do it. As a result, we feel that it is necessary for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted and regulated by relations within the National Assembly’s counsel to give its consent and to know what the rules of conduct are. There's also a provision here in one article that's contrary to this, but we'll talk about it later. We insist that you think well and accept, and this is nothing special that will take some time away from us, and we will consider and accept here as an act of advice on how to behave and function, so that we do not leave them to vote over and waste time on those things that are not necessary, but to deal with professional affairs, which are also forms.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3934	National MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3935	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the names of Section II, are changed and read - the National Educational Council, instead of the current name - educational advice. I think that this prefix - national, I would like to say so, but I doubt that it can contribute to the effectiveness of this council, especially by setting deadlines: that within 15 days only candidates are yet to apply; that I am not talking about that of 38 members of this National Educational Council only one is foreseen for representatives of national minorities. What I came out of this booth for is to point out that since 1890 there has been an educational council under that name, therefore, without prefix - national. It was abolished during Milosevic and today we return the name - the National Educational Council. So if we respect tradition, which is an invitation to traditionalists, and especially historians, I think it would be good to keep the name from 1890. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3936	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3937	The question of composition and creative educational advice is less - more out of the circle of my interest at this point. What I want to draw attention to, two-thirds of the Serbian Serb high school population, or children, are our students of secondary schools. By forming this one council, you have eliminated not only the one for co-ordination, but for the medium professional. The council had quite a specific composition, he had representatives of employers, union representatives, of course, of this side of the table. I am afraid that in this council which is now formed and the composition is not representative of the interests of secondary vocational education and that there will be problems, and in particular given the fact, I read in the paper that someone in the ministry has said that it is medium professionally continuing through reforms, so modules and so on. In that case, you need a stronger body to rely on, I mean you, the ministry, anyone in the administration, and make decisions for medium professional. I don't think this is the way the proposed composition of the council is adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3938	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MP Arsen Đurić and the MPs of the Parliament of the People, Zvonimir Stević and Milisav Petronijevic, together. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3939	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister, starting with the objectives and tasks of education and education defined in point 5 of Article 3, where it is said that the objectives of developing awareness of state and nationality, the care of Serbian tradition and culture, as well as the traditions and cultures of national minorities and ethnic communities, are that national councils, as an institution that needs to provide for preconditions and how the strategy and strategic objectives of education and education will be determined, are not adequately drawn up by the objectives that have been declared. It's just saying that the goals in proportion to what de facto is doing are in the organisation of education. I have proposed an amendment that the council has 41 members, including the president, appointed by the National Assembly in time of six years, by changing and saying in paragraph 3. 9: "One member from the ranks of the most numerous national minorities on the list of candidates to be consulted by national minorities". In this way, national minorities would indeed be able, through their representatives in this council, to influence the definition of the goals and values for which we will stand and to educate our generations. This is in line with the intensities of all the parliamentary groups that Serbia is approaching Europe, to preserve in this convergence of interests, national interests and the states of Serbia and Serbian citizens, but also to respect the objectives and values around which the European Union is gathered, which do not conflict with our tradition and history. That is why I believe that the Government, or the Minister, should accept this proposal, because it does not endanger anyone, but only gives the possibility for national minorities to show all their interests in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3940	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3941	Of course, I support my colleague Ristic's amendment for at least three reasons. Of the 38 national communities that exist in this country according to the 2002 census, 10 of these 38 national minorities had interest in preserving their national identity, further development, had the organisational, demographic and other potential to organise themselves in accordance with the federal Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. Therefore, it is very important and falls, as a reason two, under the obligation of the state to allow national minorities to participate in those forums concerning their national identity. What I do know is that 90% requires national minorities to preserve their national identity falls within the area of education and education. Of course, this respects what I said yesterday, respects all possible conventions and declarations that exist, from the UN to the Council of Europe, and since our Member State is all these three international institutions, this obligation falls within our country's international obligation to enable members of national minorities to participate in forums and matters concerning their preservation, affirmation and further development of their national identity. The amendment of counterpart Ristic, therefore, goes towards making it possible in a very representative and quality way for representatives of the four most numerous minority communities to take part in the National Educational Council and thus to influence the content of curricula and curricula. Just to remind you, we live in a time when, as far as all these 10 national communities are concerned, in the last three or four months, an intense attack on their cultural, religious objects, dignity, from Hungary, Bosniaks, Slovaks, Russians, to Roma, is one trend that this government does not have an explicit enough answer. If in this way we would ignore the will, so to speak, of a million citizens of this country, who feel like members of 38 national minorities, it seems to me that we would continue in one systematic way to demean the national identity and dignity of members of the national minorities. In that sense, I believe that such an amendment, in a very legal, systemically manner, would prevent further discrimination against members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3942	The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3943	I will also briefly refer here to some remarks, suggestions and suggestions made, first of all, in the debate in principle, and then to the above-mentioned amendment. First of all, I'd like to say something, I think I owe it, because I'm not going to report for every amendment specifically, regarding the descriptive evaluation. There was criticism as to why the descriptive evaluation, etc. By amendment to the proposed text of the law, we accepted that the descriptive evaluation should only be in the first grade. So it won't be in the first two, as imagined in the initial variant. We will, by the way, try to better formulate this descriptive evaluation, so that it becomes clearer to everyone who is interested in it, both to the student and the teacher himself, and to the parents, of course. As far as the prom exam is concerned, why the prom exam after grade and high school. Because prom exam is a little master's letter, a little diploma. The student will take from a group of subjects where he shows the best results and chooses them, and given that there will also be graduation exams, and there will be no admission exams for the next level of schooling. So something must still exist as the crown of the completion of a phase of education. A question of university inequality related to the composition of the National Educational Council has been raised, so why Belgrade University was favored. There are several reasons for that. First of all, the fact is, if you want to make history, that Belgrade University is the mother of all universities in Serbia. He is the most numerous humane, and by the number of students, the fact is that he is also the strongest, however it may sound like this beocentric, since many Belgrade University professors are visiting other universities in Serbia. So, other universities feel a certain personnel deficit and this deficit covers Belgrade. We simply felt it was the most logical, given that it was the strongest university center. The question of the material position of employees is raised. Of course that must be our concern, however, the Ministry of Education and Sports cannot only worry about that. And without the better material position of the educational staff, there is no way of talking about any quality level of education or reform at all. That's not at all controversial, we're very aware of it, I think it's more aware than our predecessors. There have been many objections raised to some questions that cannot even be regulated by this law, simply not the subject of this law, let's say, and the question of textbooks. The textbook issue will be regulated by a special law on textbooks and has been announced in this respect by the ministry's legislative activity. The legislative activity will be taken over by the National Educational Council, which will address these most important strategic issues and problems in the perspective. So we leave it to one institution. We do not want that, as it has been so far, to happen in a narrow circle of people who think in a similar or almost identical way. Why European and international integration at all, not universal integration. It's something that's the current world trend. It used to be non-classified, we had two blocks, we had a third block -- a block of non-classified countries, and then there was talk of connecting non-classified countries. We live in Europe, we are part of the European family, and it is normal for us, when it comes to international integration, to European integration, to European integration. It's not just any courtship of Europe, nor is it any kind of imperative that anyone dictates to us on the outside, it's the most logical thing, we all talk so much about European integration, and our goal is to join the EU, we don't see why it would not be explicitly exposed in this law. As far as training is concerned, whether this question is touched by the letter of this law proposed or not, training for work is a matter of practice, not legal letters on paper. Therefore, what is not explicitly stated in the text of this law should be properly implemented in practice, and what is written and what does not stand, but is understood. So this law will show itself best in practice and the ministerial college itself will best express itself in practice, hopefully and we will work in a positive way. The matter of the Rules of Procedure has been asked whether this assembly should give its consent to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Educational Council. We don't think so. The Assembly itself does not give consent to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, and the same Government appoints this assembly, and it is simply not a common practice and we do not believe that this should be provided for in this legal regulation. With regard to national minorities and the protection of the rights of national minorities, I am pleased to say that since I have been at the head of the Ministry of Education and Sports, we have not had any problems or objections to work on respecting the rights of national minorities in the field of education and education. Again, I say, the composition of the National Educational Council, as we have imagined it, of course, should deal with the entire population of Serbia, minority, majority, independent of national or any other belonging. But still, I'll be free to read the passage of a stenogram. It seems to me to be a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 3 November 2003, to see little of how our predecessors have thought about a minority people very much represented in Serbia, which are Roma. Mr. Gašo Knezevic says: "Romi – positive discrimination has been introduced. Look, no one in the world has successfully, unfortunately, solved the problem of Roma education. The Roma as a social group are opposed to any molding, they are, they are genetic; we are trying to help them... "I'm sorry, what does it mean that the Roma are as genetically as they are. Is this about discrimination or something else? We would never make a statement like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3944	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. You'll get your word at the beginning of the session. [[After a break.]] Please confirm the quorum. Throw in your cards, see if we can get back to work. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're continuing our work. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, answered the words. Are you answering about the amendment or is that a replica? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3946	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, fellow Members, is not the first time this statement has been quoted. For the first time, he quoted Serbia's largest patriot, Costa Chavoski, at a session of the Law Faculty, with the same intention. If the statement is well analyzed, it becomes clear that there is nothing wrong with it, that we have tried to help, absolutely with positive discrimination, one minority. Roma. I wonder how much this ministry has shown effort and how much it has managed to help the Roma. What is seen from this statement by the Minister, unfortunately, is a condensed evil that was released to the audience of Serbia thanks to TV cameras. This condensed evil will come to the heads of those who currently rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3947	Who's answering the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. On the occasion of the amendment? Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3948	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several amendments to Article 3 relating to the number of members and the composition of the council. And this member is controversial. It's slow, it's problematic, not so much because of the number, but because of the composition that this law provides. With this proposal, that's what I said and in the principle debate, something was done that I don't think is possible. The proposal literally required some institutions, some associations, some organisations in Serbia, to run for office. suggest someone for this advice. Simply, the legislator put himself in the role of the judge, the judge who will determine who is interested in education in Serbia and who must participate in this council, the National Educational Council. I have to go back a little bit. Last year, when we discussed the proposal for an existing law, the DSS had a different position and here I will quote to you a part of the presentation by Bojana Alexic, who was an MP, was an assistant or deputy minister of education in that first DOS government. Here, Assistant Minister of Education, yes. Here, in her presentation she talks about the bill at the time, where she says that the DSS proposal is acceptable, except for some of the things that concerned this national council. So everything else was acceptable, which Mr. Knezevic then offered, except for this advice, because their concept was that there was one advice, not three, as Mr. Knezevic predicted. Among other things, the National Assembly must choose one such advice, not from the ranks of politicians and not from the ranks of politicians, but exclusively from the ranks of experts, on the proposal of the Education Committee. At the time, it was the DSS's view that the composition of the council, members of the council proposed a Education Committee, which would commit to having a conversation with experts and people of the highest reputation, and with consultations with SANU, with the Serbian First Slavic Church and at all the most national institutions must take part in all of this. This is also an acceptable position for us, that the Committee on Education of the Serbian Assembly invites all persons interested in Serbia for education, that they delegate, propose their candidates, that the Committee establish a list and that the list come before the MPs. Like this, it's just amazing that we have to commit, I mentioned, and the Association of Employers of Serbia and representative trade unions, etc. Who chose them and on the basis of which criteria, that they have their own representatives in this council. Why aren't some other associations here? Are all the subjects, who in some way are interested, covered by this proposal? I think we should intervene here. There may not be a single amendment to go in that direction, but the legislator can take a break, or the chairman of the assembly, so that the motionary intervenes to change this, because we're going to get into a difficult situation to get the council paralyzed, so he can't work. That's where the problems are gonna come in. That's why I think we need to stop here and intervene with the government's amendment to change this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3949	Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3950	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I'm glad there are people here who remember and remember what the DSS was saying, here, in this assembly a year ago. That's right. Two basic objections the DSS had against the law at the time. One is time, and the other is educational advice. They wanted it to be national and to be elected in the Assembly. After much time spent in the DSS rooms, because unlike the current ministry, we contacted and communicated with everyone, and trying to reach a broader consensus, I got the answer from them that the only policy that drives them against the law, that strategically they have no big difference compared to the proposed text. That's true, whether the science of education in the DSS ranks has so advanced from last year to this year, that this has been a change of course, I really don't know. I think, Mr. Jovanovic, that's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3951	Here you are, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3952	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, fellow Members, a few words about this amendment, or a few words about the Educational Council or the proposal of the National Educational Council. I hope this "national" means a lot more than someone wants to tell another story about how we protect national integrity. I don't think the Enlightenment Council in the previous composition or with a name without a "national" didn't do it. Moreover, the composition of the Educational Council under the previous law was much like an educational advice that could respond in every respect to the challenges of the profession and the needs of education. Today, according to the proposal to amend and supplement this law, we are creating a national educational council according to the delegate principle. You'll remember, most of you who are slightly older than me, that's the principle we had in the past times of the socialist delegate system. What does that mean? This means that certain institutions, institutions and bodies will propose a number of people who will then be proposed to us, as representatives of the people in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and we will decide which of them will be a member of the National Educational Council. Do you really think this will provide a level of expertise and expertise in this area that the National Educational Council should have. This means that the university will propose a number of people, and then we will vote which of those proposed by the university will become a member of the National Educational Council. Does this mean that a greater chance of passing the National Educational Council will be given to one who is a member of a political party which, at this point and at any other point, is a majority represented parliament. Does this mean that then, in this way, we are building a national educational council that will be in the mechanism of the strongest political party in the Republic of Serbia? If that's the goal, and I guess that's what the legislator's intention is, then we're reaching an uninvited level of something that none of us would want to have. The National Educational Council must be an expert group, it must be people who have a vision, a positive attitude towards education and a huge experience in this area, and not those who at some point seem to be suitable for us to implement the current policy. There's one more thing I'm going to add to this. You've lifted the advice on professional education. It's a very dangerous thing. As far as I know, neither in DSS programmes nor in the G17 Plus programme as coalition parties, the issue of solving unemployment is forgotten. Moreover, both parties insist on resolving unemployment in their programmes. How do you plan to do that if you cancel the advice on vocational education? If there is no longer an absolute link between the economy and education, unless there is a projection of education in relation to the needs of the economy in this third Republic of Serbia, does this mean that an uncontrolled enrolment in schools that do not need market and economy or at all Serbia will increase the number of people who will not be able to find adequate employment based on their expertise. Or, does that mean, or does it mean, that the National Educational Council will no longer be for parents, for the local community, for students, or for private educational institutions, because they do not, according to this proposal, have any representatives in the new National Educational Council. This means that they will not be able to raise issues that they consider relevant. I'll take this opportunity to say one more thing. I graduated from the University of Novosad and I'm proud of it. As far as I know, Minister Loncar and Mr Ristivojevic, Mr Novakovic, and many people sitting in this parliament today ended up at the University of Novi Sad. I don't feel inferior at all, nor less valuable, nor as someone who knows less than colleagues who have graduated from the same or similar university at Belgrade University. A country that holds onto itself, a state that holds onto the universe in its own country, cannot distinguish between the universities that exist in it. That's why I don't understand the provisions of this law, even less understand what the minister said today, that Belgrade University is something else compared to other universities in Serbia, that Belgrade University... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... should have priority and positive discrimination compared to other universities. Forgive all of us who have not chosen Belgrade University for being born elsewhere, or we thought that at other universities we could properly acquire education that we would after professionally deal with in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3953	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3954	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Colic, Minister of Education, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one should have any fear when the Enlightenment is restored to the national character and when the authorities are elected to ensure that it happens. I'll take the name of a nice fruit tree. It's called the dune. Every dune has a duty that every next dune has the same beautiful color and the same smell as the other one. Each government has an obligation to ensure that the national character of the process is preserved in the education process. Politicians have the right to exhibit different visions here. We've defined ourselves to support this one that's ahead of us and we don't need anyone to be afraid that someone who has a real need to ensure that no national substance is threatened does it in the way that changes and additions to this law that is here do. I remind and pray those who signed expert interpretations that Peter Kočić and Stevan Sremac were expelled from the Serbian language programme. Please return these two giants to the Serbian language program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3955	Here you go, replica. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3956	We have two types of Europhobia, a little bit of learning, but that's right, the fear of Europe. One that pushed us into isolationism and another that went to Europe, which also feared whether Europe would treat us equally. Otherwise, I think that one big strategic advantage of this proposed law is that, apart from that European ability to understand the reality and the time in which we live, we also have a quality definition of national identity. I don't think the nationals drink enough with their mother's milk, they need to cultivate it a little bit. Since we had this cultivation for 50 to 60 years, and it was still the cover of Broz’s regime from above, it is no wonder that in this society the crisis began to unfold in 1991, 1992, in such a tragic way. So, when we have an attribute problem with the national council, let me tell you right now that it's not an exclusive national council. It fits into the national definition of all those who live in this country, what the late Zoran Djindjic is, let the easy country speak to him as synergy, therefore as a fruit of all in the direction of the welfare of this country, and we have one example that it is not only our right in Europe, but at the same time our obligation to join our quality to European identity, as well as our chance. At the level of elite culture you have a good example, Mrs Stojačić-Lakicevic, is an excellent example of the literary opus Milorad Pavić, who is national and therefore became European and in the area of mass culture the latest example of Željko Joksimović. A man went to Europe, sang a Serbian song in Serbian and returned triumphantly. He understood the meaning of Europe better than the previous foreign minister. Only in Serbia is that last year is smarter than Socrates.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3957	Mr. Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3958	The national character of education is not defended by law. The national character of education is derived from the plan, i.e. the programme, from general and specific bases. These are acts brought to the level of the ministry, not parliament. Gentlemen, if you had read a little bit, you'd know that national character can and should be defended not in the Assembly but in the programs' committees. My objection to this ministry is why they cover some reasons for changing the law, and these reasons are at the sublegal level. Let's not make the law and change it when we can find the national character we care about at the sublegal level. The only reason I find it is in the lines of Ogden Nash. Ogden Nash is a poet who Paja Mincic sang and one verse says, "For what he dances, I am very weak, because you will have for every itch." It bothers you to feel that this is reform and that's why you're scratching.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3959	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3960	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I want to say that I've gotten the impression that someone is afraid of that attribute national, because it is so insistent that it is unnecessary, and is even calling for some kind of 1890 tradition, etc. I want to say for the sake of information that fears the attributes of national, or national, that it's a common thing in the world. When you want to point out that some body, some institution, some agency has the highest possible rank in one country, then you usually add an attribute national. That's how you have, for example. in the United States, the National Agency for Space and Aeronautic Research, known as NASA. You also have a National Bureau of Standards in America and, therefore, here it should be regarded as the highest-ranking institution. If any other laws or sublegal acts permit other levels of pedagogical advice, then we can talk about regional pedagogical advice, municipal pedagogical advice, etc. Therefore, this is a national practice in the world when it is said to be an institution of national importance and state level. The only other option is that this institution is called a state institution, and then you have, not to list examples from the world now. So in this sense we understand this national and it is not good to insist that it is deleted and that there are some historical reasons, etc. Around this some xenophobicity, about Europhobicity, it is known to be imputed things to the Serbian people, such as this great Serb hegemonism. We all know it's something that's been imputed, and then it repeats itself. And so does this xenophobicity of ours. It is funny to say for the Serbian people, or people living in Serbia, that they are xenophobic. If Serbs were xenophobic, Serbia would not be among the most multinational countries in Europe and the world. It's quite clear that it's also an attempt to impute something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3961	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3962	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we disagreed on many issues today. But I think we'll agree that the education system is one of our most significant resources and for its status, its importance is most deserved by our talented students and, of course, the enthusiasm of the professor. But the further development of our education system cannot be based on this alone and it must have more material, i.e. financial support for society and I hope that in the coming period we will be able to fight for a better material position of education, because without material support for the reform of the education system it will not be possible. That's why the education system is our most significant, I'd say capital investment. Education is a complex, massive, inert system at the same time, and if we don't install good development mechanisms on an institutional level, it will never change. The proposed law, we have found, represents the abandonment of the reform project proposed by the previous government, i.e. the former Ministry of Education. However, regardless of such an assessment of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education System, it is possible to correct this law by adopting the amendments we have proposed, not only by our parliamentary group but also by other parliamentary groups, and may inform the honourable MPs that MPs have proposed more than 140 amendments. Unfortunately, the government, or ministry, the ministry's representatives only accepted twenty-one amendments. Over 100 amendments have not been accepted. I must conclude with some regret that amendments to the SPS, the SRS, the G17 plus, the DSS, the SDP, so all parliamentary groups and no amendments to the Democratic Party, or MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, have been accepted. It can be like that and it is a kind of discrimination. I don't think that's good, because there were very good amendments in the total number of almost 50. It doesn't necessarily mean they were all good, but there are a dozen of them at least and I think they should have been accepted. Since on behalf of the parliamentary group and on my behalf, above all, I have proposed an amendment to Article 3, I would not read it, but it concerns the composition of the National Educational Council. We saw essentially, and from the plenary discussion yesterday and today, that the National Educational Council almost took a central place in the new law. As far as the council is concerned, it is easy to see that of the 38 proposed members of the National Educational Council, 11 are university professors, 15 are teachers of the classes and there are four representatives of the Association of High Schools, and there are representatives of the SPC, one member of the order of traditional churches, member of the National Minorities. And with one amendment, we wanted to improve that composition by proposing three representatives. These would be a member of the National Employment Organisation, a member of the ranks of representative trade unions and a member of the organization of the Employers' Association. It must be noted that this law, or preparation, has passed without a public debate, and this will prove to be one of the serious handicaps in the adoption of this new law. So, no expert associations have been consulted, and we know from the private contacts that we have with colleagues working in primary and secondary schools, that there are many objections to the composition of the National Educational Council. First of all, these remarks concern the small representation of representatives of secondary schools. We have, by amendment to Article 5 of the proposed law, tried to improve what the Ministry has proposed on behalf of the Government. As regards Article 3 which I have proposed, it concerns the presence of teachers, i.e. classroom teachers, in this council. Of the 38 members of the National Educational Council, there is only one teacher. Since the entire student population is going through the first five years of education, so preschool age... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Just a few more sentences... four more years of primary education, so I think that the lack of participation of class teachers is a classroom and we propose that it be improved, and therefore I would ask the representatives of the Government, but also the honourable fellow Members of Parliament to accept this amendment and thus correct this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3963	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. The MP withdrew the amendment to Article 3. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3964	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in particular discussing, and certainly not too much to say about the most significant or strategic bill. We all know that education and child education depend on Serbia's future. That is why we want and wanted first through the amendments to convince the proposing representative to accept the SRS' proposals, because our intention was really clean and honest, to correct this legislative proposal. We must defend the amendments, in order to try again to convince Mrs. Colic or you, fellow Members of the congregation, to accept our amendments in order to have a better law, which means that we will have a better and healthier education. An amendment submitted by our colleague Natasa Jovanovic to Article 3. The bill refers to Article 11 of the basic law, and Article 11 of the basic law speaks about the composition and way of proposing members of the National Educational Council. We have not intervened here by amendment at all points of view of this article, although there may have been a place, because you have indeed listed many organizations, both official and unofficial, and various societies etc. It's just that there's a band of pigeons missing, who can propose anything to their representatives on this council. We didn't do any small things here. We thought, well, the Assembly would choose this national council, so I guess then we'll be able to talk about these proposals individually. The position of either 7 or 8 states: "A member of the council cannot be appointed a person appointed, elected or appointed to office in a state body, a body of territorial autonomy, i.e. local self-government and a person elected to the authority of a political party or body of the management of the institution. "There is our colleague Natasa Jovanovic, on behalf of our parliamentary group, suggested that part of this be deleted, because we think it is wrong that a member of the council cannot be elected to the political party's authority. It is truly incomprehensible that this is how political parties, i.e. politically defined citizens of Serbia, are trying to Analyze, and on the other hand, we all seem to be in favour of parliamentary democracy, a multi-party system. We don't think that this can really survive, and especially since this provision, that is, this position of this member, applies solely to opposition parties. All these promoters will certainly propose politically colored members to this council and why only those currently in opposition would not be able to propose members to this council. What does it mean to be elected to the political party's authority? The SRS has over 5,000 local committees in Serbia, and each president and each vice president of the local board has been elected a person and party official. Why should we exclude all these people from this law, or this article? Besides, we have an example of article 35. The law on the election of MPs, which states that no political party can have more than one third of its members in election enforcement bodies, and we all know that both in the republican electoral committees and in the election committees are proposed and appointed people who are members of a political party holding power locally. That's how the DSS had a majority on election committees and municipal election committees wherever they hold power. Of course, it's unproven whether someone is a member or not of a political party... (President: Time.) ) In any case, if it meets the other requirements that it may be a member of the national council, the fact that it has been elected to one of the political parties' organs cannot be an obstacle to that choice. Please, since you've gathered together, dear colleagues, in this number to make a quorum and vote for today to be done by midnight, and to listen to this amendment, and to adopt this amendment. It'd be better if you worked here the two days you made deals with SPI and the socialists, so we don't have to work till midnight tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3965	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3966	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must refer briefly to Mr. Gaše Knezevic's earlier presentation and say that any consent or compliance of our views with Mr. Knezevic's views is quite random. The second thing, Mr. Knezevic criticised the current minister of non-democracy for not visiting parliamentary groups, not working with them, that he had not reached a consensus under this proposal, and that Mr. Knezevic allegedly did so in the previous term. All I have to do is deny it. It wasn't like that in the previous term either. Mr. Knezevic also worked in the same way as the current government, and Mr. Knezevic, immediately upon his arrival as minister, made a solution that suspended Mr. Vojislav Seselj from his post at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. So much for the democracy of those who are called Democrats. As for the amendments, Mrs Radeta quite nicely explained what this is all about, namely, it is a fundamental human right here, how one can be denied the right to be elected only because he is a member of a political party or is in some position in that party. I'm asking a question here, gentlemen of the Ministry, will Mr Nikola Milosevic, on this proposal we have here, be able to be a member of this council, with apologies for mentioning his name? Here, the D.O.D. gentlemen say it won't be possible. It's not good, it's not good if a man is professional, qualified, if he's in the profession of a prominent expert, then why not be a member of the council, why are we now getting into his political or political commitment, because all those who are elected here have their own political opinion and commitment. Is one of them the president of any local committee in any village or local community, city, that's unnecessary. Who is it that can determine if anyone is in that position, and we know people who are at the top of the party, but people who are chairman of the local committee, and the local committee is the party's authority, we don't know them, we don't know them, so we can't know in advance if any of them are in such a party function. This is completely pointless. We make discrimination against people who are politically defined, we simply eliminate them from one of these possibilities. The parties want to bring into their ranks people who are of quality and that is the goal of each party and each party is proud of it. Why now do quality people eliminate that they cannot contribute to the work of such a council, just because they have their own political opinion or are in some and such low position as the chairman of the local committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3967	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3968	When it comes to understanding why it is necessary to adopt this amendment that practically prevents discrimination, and discrimination is certainly if someone is professional cannot be a member of the National Educational Council, even if they propose it or want those institutions as proposings, only because he is a member of an organ of a political party. In favour of the adoption of this amendment, I will make some arguments. You see, until a while ago, we heard that it could be a national confusion, so we have the National Savings Bank, so it confused us, so a few days ago we were talking about a national housing corporation, so nobody bothered. You see, with an enlightened - national problem, but I am simply concerned that in the context of being a member of that body would be someone who is also a member of the political party's body. He is probably not even aware that he has made an act of discrimination, and all acts of discrimination are prohibited, and I would go even further, so whether they are entered into any law, they do not exist, there must be no acts of discrimination. It would be good if the motionary adopted this amendment, because if it does not adopt, we can ask why the minister would have to be a member of a political party. That would be the logic. We have a sacred example of this, of course, is an example of the former minister, who at one point had no nerve to be patient that his colleagues at the Law School were in the majority finishing up that dirty job on the issue of elections in calling Mr. Seselj's regular professor, so he nervously annulled a complex administrative act himself. To be even weirder, the professor of law school has made a big administrative dispute, which has experienced public and professional condemnation and shame for those judges who have adopted and confirmed his solution, and now in those circles they mean nothing. Well, you see, it's not good when you have a big expert minister, it's not good when you have a high-ranking member of a political party, because it's no guarantee to you. Here you think it's a guarantee of the profession, unless it's a member of an organ of a political party. You've just been told by people, each party struggles to have as many professional qualified people as possible in the ranks of its party as members of the major political party bodies, people who can run state affairs tomorrow. For the sake of Serbian citizens, since this is being prepared by 24.00 hours, I must tell you, there is no fundamental difference between this bill of law and the Gaza Law. We're only here because of Gasha's vanity, he's submitted 120 amendments and because Gasho can't justify the money he's given; it's been a transmission to spend some money, and they're meant to have educators from 35 years of employment learn how to make paper airplanes and enjoy civic education; so someone's going to ask a question, and how did someone fix the apartment, renovate the house, and where are those money from those great symposiums? There are no fundamental differences between this bill and the Gashi law, it's the same kitchen and terminology, just a little bit different. Unfortunately, I have to say, the ones I criticized last year were only right in one sentence, they said the great truth, so you can end this reform with sublegal acts. And stop that practice, if you want to lustration in these councils, in the institutions, to do so by changing the law and changing the name of some organs. Now you are the government, change those centers, the councils, the bureaus, and who knows what they're called, bring in sublegal acts and solve what one MP from your coalition said, those five questions, and those questions torture and education, and parents, and children, and wages, and programmes, and suggest a way to improve these conditions. This change of heart of yours won't make any difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3969	One moment, according to the Business, Veroljub Stevanović, and then the National MP, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been too many verbs, too many shootings, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, toots, and a little bit of lawwork. We've wasted so much time. We're losing him for all kinds of reasons. We've just started a discussion in detail about this law. We have 90 amendments ahead of us. Let's show that we're responsible and serious people, not to say, to show. Come on, then, let's show that we can finish the debate on this law and I suggest we continue to work after 18 hours, until we finish the discussion in detail on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3971	First, let's find the quorum, and then we'll get to the point of voting on this proposal. (Gasho Knezevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I understand we've adopted the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3972	I think Mr. Stevanovic forgot to define the time to which it works. I think it's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3973	The time has been defined by the very fact that he has proposed until the debate of this point is concluded in detail. Thank you very much. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious the MPs' clubs organized here in the Assembly. Right now they're leaving those who are just serving to get their cards in here. For such an important legal project, we should all be interested and we should normally discuss not a day but more days. We heard here the bickering of two political parties with a sign of democracy on the national issue. Some say it is contained in the text, in the very principle of the National Council, while others say it is done in secret in some commissions. I can tell you that both parties are doing the same. Their goal is to get the money, to get the money, just as the previous law and the rest of the DOS did, and it seems to me now that this congregation majority is going to do the same. They say everyone protects the national interest. I read before the Serbian public that the teacher manual, student development evaluation, wrote: Nenad Havelka, Emina Habib and Alexander Baucal. As long as you can see in the first-class pitch with Vuk Karadzic, turning the Wolf into a snake, like - a palace like a snake. You'll see in math for the first grade a big snake cobra, where students are tasked with filling the dice, so that it's really that poisoner, and you know very well that all that is creeped up by grown men, let alone the founding and champions. Is that protecting national interests? We have submitted this amendment, the predecessors have already said, because it is purely political discrimination. I wonder who will choose this national council over the political majority. We wonder who will be in this council, but those proposed by this political assembly majority. It is, therefore, a pure politicisation of education, and it is forbidden to be party members, i.e. party bodies, republics, autonomous provinces and local self-government. You know well that the SRS is well organized and our infrastructure goes from top to top to local committee. Is there somewhere out there and the chairman of the local committee at the end, somewhere on Vlasina or somewhere on the cave high, can be discriminated against, or disputed by his right to be a member of the National Council? We've been looking here, as before, in previous amendments, just to remove some word, because the essence of the member doesn't change. Removing this item would not change the essence of a member at all. Simply, it would avoid this discrimination that is mentioned by your member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3975	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3976	They told me they couldn't hear me just now. May I have your attention, please? Maybe I should talk about the Rules of Procedure here first. It's not, I don't think, allowed to tell a man what he wants to say and let others hear it. This left-hand side, now left, is totally uninterested and waiting only when the vote comes and counts, and now they're gone. So they're not interested in the law, they're only interested in what they wrote, because they have to go through, and that's it. I warn you, there are far more drastic violations as to the party's commitment to what it says and what we're looking for. Is it a greater mistake that one president, say the municipal board of any party, cannot be elected to the council, and all school directors are mostly party-defined and placed on the party line. It was in Priboj, I'll tell you something, it might be funny, maybe even sad, the teachers of the individual parties took the elementary school students to FAP, to replace the director who was called Vito. The teachers began to say, "Down Vito," and the students said, "Down Tito," because they didn't hear what they said. It's sad to manipulate children. I'm asking you now, you're all members of individual parties, and if you were to twist your pockets, who knows how many books would fall out of your pockets. Maybe three or four. Therefore, I suggest you adopt this amendment. It is much less a pity if a member of a national council is a member of a party than when directors are members of a party. And, if the chairman approves, I'd say something about this case - national. I will quote only His, saying this: "Whosoever is ashamed of his mother's milk, let men and the world be ashamed, let him be ashamed of the sun and the moon, because his mother gave them to him." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3977	By the Rules of Procedure or are you reporting for an amendment? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3978	I asked the Republic for my name to be mentioned by Mr Krasic. All bills on spending money exist. I'm not going down to the level of explaining that I didn't build any houses, or upgrades, or paints, or renovations. This session is scheduled for emergency procedure. Two days cancelled. This proposal, to work until it's over, is down to the level of infancy. The marble and conflict that are now being born will allow us all to strive to defeat each other. No one thinks about children here anymore. I must say that here during the discussion, there are shared badges of a political party for the presidential election. I agree that presidential elections are a serious matter, but the law on education is a serious matter, and I ask you that this assembly is not used for the purpose of political promotion of anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3979	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic, you've caused a replica. You don't have the right to a replica, because you challenged her. Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the Proposer wanted to show special national interests, it is unclear to me that the Proposer does not suggest that someone from Pristina University (minister confirms it) enter the National Council. Second, why isn't there a representative of Kragujeva University here? The minister confirms. He's not in this group. He's not here, where you put Belgrade on more than one occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at how many members there are in this council, you'll notice that it's one smaller ministry, one humble ministry. If we want to pass a good law, it needs to be shown in practice, to have a longer application. The previous government and the Assembly of the previous assembly passed a law on education and you see, in a short time, it has proved that in practice this law cannot live. Therefore, the SRS considers that the amendment proposed by the SRS should be adopted. And also, if you'll allow me, I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia today that there is a large pre-election rally in Zrenjanin, where Tomislav Nikolic speaks, at 1800 hours, so I urge everyone to come to the rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3981	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3982	Thank you. Article 4 The proposals have been defined as the responsibilities of the National Education Council. It says here that this National Educational Council 1) - determines the direction of development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education; 2) - monitors and analyses the state of education at all levels from its competence and compliance with European standards; 3) - discusses, takes views and opinions of the Ministry in the process of passing laws and other acts governing issues of importance for the field of education and education; 4) - delivers general basics of the pre-school programme, curricula and secondary education programmes and education and education and education; 5) - proposes to the Minister: final and senior exam programmes in primary and secondary education and education, special programmes of pre-school education and education, vocational training and training, in accordance with this and specific law. To keep from reading further, there are standards and other things that are within the jurisdiction of this council. What's controversial here is points 4 and 5. We cannot accept that the council provides the general basics of pre-school programmes, curricula and primary and secondary education programmes and the basics of education. The Ministry can't be excluded from these jobs. The ministry is responsible, it is part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is responsible for the complete, overall process of education in Serbia and it must be familiar with these curricula and programmes. According to this proposal, the Ministry is absolutely excluded. It does not even give consent to these plans and programmes. So it has no obligation at all to get acquainted with the content of curricula and programs. In our opinion, it's also a dispute and a fifth point. This is where we intervened with the amendment, where the final and graduation exams in primary and secondary education were mentioned. According to our concept, we do not accept the final and graduation exam in primary and high school. That's what we consider superfluous. We cited the reasons for that. You know how these exams are done. The kids get a certain theme, they go home, they get a few days to do it, and then they hire their teachers or other teachers to do it for money, they come to school, and then they go to defense school. That's not good. We don't need to get into all of this, and if the kids went to school, if they mastered the curriculum and the program with positive success, then it's quite enough that they can continue to study according to their abilities and desires.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3983	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3984	Ladies and gentlemen, today in this House there's been a really amazing thing, a miracle unseen. MPs of the parliamentary majority gathered half an hour ago, 127 of them, to vote that we are working today until we have completed the debate in detail on this law on redundancies and additions to the Law on Education and Educational System. Imagine, the proposal to extend the work came from a parliamentary group that didn't work for two days, because two days were guessing, blackmailing, and having the cheeks to ask that we now work until midnight or all night, probably. For the sake of the public, the SRS MPs will work if they need 30 hours, until this is over, so you voted, but it would be nice if the camera would walk around the parliamentary majority, to see Serbian citizens not half an hour after that vote in the hall has 70 MPs, so to speak. The ruling majority. In the second row, you see, there are five cards, and we all see three MPs. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, was done by those before you, and that's why they're your opposition now. As regards the amendment our colleague Igor Mirovic submitted to Article 4, which concerns Article 12 paragraph 1 point 5 of the basic law, point 5) says that in the area of development and improvement of the education and education system, the Council proposes to the Minister of final and senior exam programmes in primary and secondary education and education, special programmes of pre-school education and education, vocational training and training, in accordance with this and special law. We have proposed that this point be changed and that "the Council proposes to the Minister of Special Programmes for Preschool Education and Education, Professional Training and Training, in accordance with this and special law. "We have proposed this according to the SRS programme, and according to our programme no prom exam is foreseen. We don't think it's right for a student to go to school for eight years, get excellent grades or most excellent grades, and that one day someone who's been assigned to the entrance exam gets a more difficult question, or that day has an extraordinary nervous condition. He sits in front of some other people, some other teachers, maybe he has a fever, maybe his parents got into a fight in the morning when he started taking his entrance exam, who knows what happened to him that day, and if you didn't accept this amendment, then that student wouldn't pass the entrance exam and couldn't get into the school he wanted. In this way you want to undo the eight-year work of students, and the eight-year work of teachers and teachers who have taught, taught and graded that student. It's been a little bit of a commitment you make to your students to take the entrance exam, and even when they pass the entrance exam, you give them the opportunity to write down a wish of 20 schools, so you're going to enroll them in someone I don't even know who answers to, but it certainly doesn't suit that student or his parent. The SRS finds this unacceptable and cannot possibly remain in this law. We suggest, Madam Minister, so-called. The assembly majority of you 70 to vote on the night of the vote, because it's probably going to be a nocturnal one, but not tonight, but the next one, since we're working until we're done, to vote for this amendment. You'll get better law. I don't care about your law, I do. I'm with a student who doesn't need to take an entrance exam for school.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3985	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our education back in the 30th year suffers terrible breakdowns and how any government or government that the minister promotes and sits in the ministry's chair, so education, that is, programs change. I'm sure you all remember the famous "shuvaricas" that were educated by experts in the making of the upper parts of the shoe, so if he wanted to open a craft shop, he had to find the one who was trained to make the bottom part of the shoe, so the joint shop to open. There went Shuvar, and Yugoslavia went, and Gašo Knezevic came, and then came the "gaskets". I guess this after Mrs. Cholic is going to be called "the bar," but it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, instead of having children take their eight-year or high school vacations, because eight or 12 years of school, respectively, in order to prepare for the entrance exams that you've already made, children have to spend two months studying day and night to prepare their graduation. What's going on? If a child gets frustrated on the prom exam, he comes in sick, doesn't pass or pass with a far lower grade, and this affects the number of points for enrolment in high school or college. We of the SRS believe that graduation should be abolished and the amendment of MP Igor Mirovic should be accepted in that sense. The amendment proposes to amend and vote in Article 12(1), point 5, as proposed by the Minister of Special Programmes for Preschool Education and Education, Professional Training and Training, in accordance with this and specific law. This will allow our children to prepare quality for the entrance exams, which by this law you again make for high schools and colleges, and you will release them from a major trauma called the prom exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3987	The word is Mr Krasic, so Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3988	The adoption of this amendment can say that it is really going towards some reform of our education, because what is proposed in the amendments and additions to this law and what is in that original member of the text of the law is essentially the same, it is only the way the council is chosen, so far it is a national educational council. In order not to participate in this internal and intellectually unnecessary argument, because there is no alternative, because the idea is the same and that they argue on the left and within the democratic bloc, some, that is their problem, but there is no reform. Reformers reform previous reformers, but in the same direction, in the same direction, trying to implement the lustration of some educational bodies, without going through the government, but through the Assembly by changing the law. That's the whole purpose of this law, and that's the scope of this law, to realize that you need to withdraw this law, because nothing harmful is going to happen to our education system, I guarantee it. If you withdraw this law, repeat it in two or three months, but do it better, on other grounds, nothing will happen, because there is a possibility that these three existing councils will change because they are elected, or appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have a majority in the government, you're a coalition there, you can get your professional people in there, these people can finish seventh grade programs and all this other stuff that you think sublegal acts should be regulated, you can print textbooks, you can press these centers, these new advices and institutions that already exist in terms of training educational workers for these new trends in our new school. You can do all that without changing this law, but you care about the time of the election campaign to do something that can ultimately result in something good, because what Gasha did is absolutely bad. He just didn't realize, I wasn't talking about his house, I was talking about some other friends of his with whom he made deals on these sponsoring, donor and other funds. Because someone from abroad had an interest in intellectually demeaning us, that we don't know how to get the change back if you pay 10 dollars, the electricity goes out, and something costs eight dollars. I must disappoint you all in that democratic bloc. Any reform you do, you do it nationalally and intellectually that exists with these citizens in this space you can't ruin. Everyone who talks here with some big regret that someone is going to ruin our education system can't ruin it. This people are fighting so hard on their own, they have natural protection. This is where all the geniuses who fight with all the means of stupidity and ignorance live. No one will allow his child to be an intellectual freak, equal to someone out there in the West who doesn't know there's a geography and don't worry. Our children are gifted. It only takes a little bit to sort out these programs, so kids don't learn something that's a burden, so they don't repeat one thing a thousand times, they don't do a little bit of that evaluation system, and there's the end. No, our ministers want to reform and destroy. We won't let you do that, and that's why we're going to talk about every amendment, and when your quorum falls, you think carefully, agree and withdraw this law. Make a law that will remove exactly what you have noticed is an obstacle to our education: salaries to educators, educational programs, methodology for how to announce the programme, the system of evaluation and the conditions for that education. Anything else can stay. You've heard very specific data from the MPs of the SRS. We have great dispersion, and we cannot put a rural school in the same basket as Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3989	The word has a National MP, Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3990	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian radicals have very constructively approached the monitoring and control of this law. We gave a large number of amendments, one of which was adopted, and we really wanted to work constructively and bring the work to an end during the evening. Some suspicious majority decided to work all night and in the morning and then we were relieved. We have no reason to save time, because you have already decided to work until morning, and we will try to make as many of our MPs on each amendment express their position and thus fulfil their parliamentary duty, and in all ways, from all aspects, consider this law. I would like to ask the chairman and those from the majority where Mr. Svedovic, Mr. Angelkovic, Dacic, vice-president of the National Assembly of Krstic, all who voted to extend their work. Although, for Sr., I know, there's food in the cafeteria, but for the others, I don't know where they are. As we've already said, to move on to the amendment itself, we really think that after eight or 12 years of schooling in any way, it's too high to take that so-called. the maturity test, that it is enough to achieve a certain success in school and that it is a certain qualification for enrolment in some higher education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the Ministry of Education must not be excluded when it comes to the plan and programme of pre-school, primary and secondary schools, so that something like what happened in the previous period doesn't happen. So the former regime was meant to lower the intellectual level of our students, so that our children would be the workforce of various multinational companies that are spreading in our country today. The Ministry of Education should have jurisdiction over this council, because we think the council has great powers and you should consider that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3994	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 4. The bill, submitted by MP Igor Mirovic, proposes that the final exam programme be abolished. The fact is, as colleagues have already mentioned, that after a long period of education and many grades, it is a huge question of whether this day, and the reasons why this should be abolished are numerous, the child may be in the mood, whether he can be in good health, how a prom exam will be conducted for children who, when scheduled, are sick, could be others. If Minister of Education and Sports Mrs. Colic had read the draft budget for 2004, perhaps this bill would not be on the agenda today. Namely, what's this about? When the 2004 budget was proposed, it was done in a way that none of the MPs could discuss the budget. In fact, the draft budget was split at nine in the morning and MPs were due to discuss it that day at ten, and the draft budget for this year envisions that the Ministry of Education has four times less money than the finance ministry. Since it is in the Ministry of Education together and sport, what is it and what are the financial and other obligations before this ministry, since it includes over a million children's education. And what are these commitments from the finance ministry to have four major budgets, and therefore the SRS MPs have submitted all these amendments, wanting first of all to rationalise the budget's modest resources anyway. Since that is not enough, the finance ministry has also envisioned funding for NGOs this year. And I'm thinking again of the expense of an important ministry as important as the Ministry of Education. And even the Ministry of Faith has been ordered by the draft budget to grant one third of the appropriations from the budget to NGOs. Now you see whether money, which is practically removed from the back of Serbian citizens through taxes and various other fees, should be financed by Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic and many others, and that our children are learning some plans and programs prepared by a very massive administrative apparatus, for which we will not have any money and that we want to implement all this. That is why it would be best if you had accepted the amendment already to Article 2 which regulates Article 10 of the existing law and that you immediately accepted the establishment of two permanent committees within the framework of the council; you would have avoided any further debate and made the law applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3995	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the money mentioned here and spent at the Ministry of Education in the past period is concerned, it's really an enigma that wasn't discussed in this assembly, which is why we were on the Committee of Education looking for a report from the Ministry of Education on the money spent in the previous period. I doubt that the government of Serbia or anyone in this country has any information on how much money has entered this country, how much has been allocated, how much has been taken by the Ministry of Education, as much as others and so on. I personally know about the Ministry of Education that big money came from donations from NGOs, some banks, so it wasn't by chance that the minister of education met with Soros. So it's still about money, so we're gonna ask the radicals to explain that money and discuss it on the Education Committee. As far as this amendment is concerned, it's serious matter, it's a serious proposal. In order for this law to really be reformal, i.e. to change something, the amendment of the SRS should be respected and not only the classification exams, i.e. the admission exams, but also the prom exams should be abolished. Unfortunately, the entrance exams now replace the prom exam, the small graduations and the big ones, as it used to be called, which is a re-burdening of students and parents. It's child trauma after eighth grade, especially the problem. Why evaluate something that's already been evaluated, why do we do it if the student got grades through his eight-year-old education, why do we do it again from some of the classes that graded it. For example, the Ministry of Education had once had much more effective instruments to determine the true state of education. So there was that famous student testing, two or four times a year, that would accurately determine the work and educational worker and the quality of knowledge, that is, the amount of knowledge the student had adopted in the previous period. If we know that the plan and programme is unique for the whole of the Republic of Serbia, then it is easy to determine in each quarter the testing of students per grade and per class, it is easy to determine what amount of knowledge it is necessary to adopt for a certain grade and thus the educational workers would also be interested in fair grades, and the students would be more motivated to work. I think this amendment should have been accepted. I again appeal to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament to accept the SRS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3997	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3998	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, someone here told the SRS that the previous regime wanted to lower the country's intellectual level. I don't know how it is to lower the intellectual level if you raise the level of elementary school from eight to nine years old. Now we're going back to the cut. Let me just tell you the information. In what we once called Western Europe, no one is eight anymore, all nine to 12. In our immediate environment, Montenegro nine, Republika Srpska nine, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia nine, Hungary 12. At eight years now, Albania, which will remain so far, is also Macedonia, which releases the law in June three plus three plus three - nine years, and Croatia, which will do so by the end of this year. So we will only be able to correspondence with Albanian schools. And for those great patriots, how will you enroll children from Republika Srpska, how will you enroll children from Montenegro? Come on, because I know there are some here for independent Serbia that it's not an argument. Please, this is where the possibility of horizontal student mobility is interrupted in relation to all our environments. Or we'll eat years. I don't know. But the environment makes us. It doesn't make us do anything else, the conditions force us to change our behavior. We now return from nine to eight. Is that civilized?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u3999	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has proposed an amendment relating to the part in the law explaining the powers of the council. In the proposed law, the Council proposes "the final and senior programmes in primary and secondary education and education, special programmes for pre-school education and education, vocational training and training, according to this and the special law. "We wanted that, as we heard it, to change. I'd just like to explain it a little bit more. So, the prom exam should be deleted, because as you know, it's not normal for eight years of elementary school to be thrown into the water and to determine the rest of your life for the rest of your life for as long as that prom exam, an hour or an hour and a half. It would probably depend on whether that child has a nervous system, whether he's afraid of the fact that his life depends on it all. I think you know that a 12, 13 or 14-year-old child doesn't have the opportunity to bear so much responsibility. I believe and repeat that you know that we're right about this, that children can't do it and that it's not good for them, but we understand you. That's how it is when you have to hurry up and commit various blackmails to the guy, I tell you, you to me. I urge you once again to come to your senses while it is time and to withdraw this law, so that you can correct all mistakes and take a good look at it again and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4001	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Nadica Momirov and Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4002	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, according to the discussion we have heard so far and which is currently being developed, it is obvious that the National Educational Council is taking a central place in the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Education and Education System. Article 5 The proposal provides for members of the old law to be deleted from 13th to 16th, and just to remind the honourable MPs that these are members who define the educational council of 29 members and presidents, the Council for Professional Education, which was to consist of 20 members, and the President and Council for the Consentation of Views in Education. I have to admit that I have the understanding that because of rationalization, and I don't know for what other reasons the advice for harmonising attitudes in education in a certain way has been incorporated into the membership of the National Educational Council. I really don't have any understanding of completely shutting down the advice on professional education and I'll explain why. If we want our education system to be adapted to the needs of the economy, we need to prepare our education system for these requirements, not only with current, but also with development needs, so I don't understand the composition of the National Educational Council, that it contains only four representatives of professional organisations from the domain of professional care. This represents a serious handicap of the new bill, this on the composition of the National Educational Council, which is why the amendment that I have proposed provides for the removal of the proposed Article 5 and the practical return of advice on vocational education and advice for the alignment of views. Although I admit that, as far as the council is concerned, I repeat, I have a certain understanding that he is being immersed in the National Educational Council. We have objections and professional organizations with which we have contacted and, indeed, from 38 members to only four members are delegated, it is a very small representation, given the large number of different schools, which provide professional training for our generations and given the large number of profiles that these schools have. I still have to say one more finding, two serious handicaps that concern the adoption of this law, and the lack of public debate and another, which is being brought into the process of the election campaign, so we are quite burdened by it. I think the discussions very often differed from what is the central theme of the assembly session, and I hope it will not distract us from being able to do what we are in charge of, which is to fix the proposed law and that the National Educational Council, which is that it has a central role in the whole system, of course along with the Ministry of Education, but I think that by adopting this law, we can fix the whole thing. I call on the honourable Members of Parliament to support the amendment that I have proposed, so Article 5 of the proposed law should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4003	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go. National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4004	During the 2003 law-making process, a law-making team visited the chambers among other things. The chambers are associations of some employers of companies working in this country. We held three meetings with them. There was an awful lot of interest in the advice on vocational education. The chambers felt one thing, like mushrooms after the rain in the country's territory, growing national universities and similar institutions. These people's universities, through a course method, were teaching the fit, publishing some papers that no one controlled, and then qualified people reported themselves to work in businesses. At the same time, a member of the chamber told me that he had a problem with schooling, that is, the training of the people who completed those courses. That's why our idea was to strengthen professional secondary education. The largest number of people in this country still finish this, since two-thirds of secondary education is waste, the high school has 150 and 450 to 500 secondary schools, therefore, the number of people is weak and inadequately prepared for the profession, for life. In addition, there were a large number of machine schools, and unfortunately, this country has fallen on the level of the machinery industry. As a result, we had a serious job, the restructuring of secondary schools, the change of profiles in secondary schools, the provision of more attractive interests for people who go to that level and that kind of education on the one hand, and on the other hand by giving a strong connection between secondary schools, employment institutions, and employers and trade unions. The Council's aim for secondary vocational education was to gather all interested in its composition. By that fact, by this gathering, all interested would be able and would have the right to make certain decisions, which, as advisory or in some stronger form, gave to the ministry. It seems to me that by abolishing the High School Council, we are making a bear service to our own country. We will again educate people who, when they are hired, will have to be further educated, that is, we will be able to study the frame that will be placed on the labour market, because there will be no work, and we will not profile and create schools that will give people the necessary labour market. I warn you, you have the great importance of the High Professional Education Council, and what is noticeable from the work of the current ministry is a Lithuanian approach to high schools. I finished it, I have no reason to attack it, but I have no reason to point it out. You should all be in the same relationship, mother, father or stepmother, however you wish, but to all the same, and that's what we tried to do with the Council. I'm afraid by eliminating him, he's losing a very serious grip with all the social partners who form secondary vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4005	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4006	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 17 of the basic law, to which counterpart Igor Becic reacted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is one of the evidence that you from the current regime are not different from those of the previous regime, not just by so-called. The quorum, because it's gone now. And just please, before I begin to explain this amendment, my colleagues from the SRS, just take out the cards for a moment to see exactly how many MPs have voted to work all night. Of course, I won't intervene in the Rules of Procedure, we'll work and if there are five of you in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4007	There are 92 MPs present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4008	I didn't hear you, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4009	There are 90 MPs present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4010	Thank you very much. But I didn't intervene in the Rules of Procedure, just for the record, 127 voted in favour of an extension of the work. Therefore, Article 17 provides for the existence of an institution for improving education and education and for evaluating the quality of education and education. This is the same thing that was in the previous law, it's called, you've turned the centers into institutions, the essence is the same. In the centres, former Minister Gašo Knezevic hired his party friends, hired various sectarians, and you probably don't know what you're going to do with them, and he did it because he didn't have time to work at the Ministry, since he was involved in the illegal dismissal of Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law, because he had to meet that one of his - him or me. Now I don't know, the new minister, at least it wasn't publicly stated that it has such ambitions, so I think it can organise, or that it should organise a job at the Ministry and that these jobs are carried out by a committee within the Ministry, just as it was proposed by the amendment, so the Education and Education Commission would carry out professional tasks in the preparation of regulations from the council and the Ministry as well as other tasks in accordance with the law. What has been proposed in amendments to the basic law is too high for one of the basic reasons, which we, ladies and gentlemen, are not a state of prosperity. We can't even reconcile the obligations we have to existing bodies, or people employed in various organs and organizations, let alone form new ones. We heard here, when it comes to some agencies, that the principled position of the Democratic Party of Serbia is that they are not for the establishment of any kind of paraorganization, and here we see in this law that various paraorganizations are formed, that the ministry, for what reasons, is free of certain businesses and simply, when a man reads this whole law, wonders what the Ministry of Education and Sports will do, when all is divided into different other institutions, organisations where new people will be employed. These new people have to be paid, they have to be provided with rooms, and we don't have rooms suitable for many schools. The salaries of the educators are below all levels. I spoke yesterday, and I will repeat today, that the educators, ladies and gentlemen, are preparing a major strike because they are dissatisfied. They say they expected the new government to take care of them, none of it was, the salary increase was not received. What they need to be paid for in various schools is being abused in various ways. Teachers go to some experts, have some professional obligations outside the place of residence and tell them school directors – you can't get a full diary, the daily gets gross from the ministry, so we'll keep some percentages, and we'll give you a net, and that's from 40 to 60 percent, depending on the school's director and secretary, as they spend. Also, as far as the school's working conditions are concerned, I can see that the fifth minute is up, but there will be more amendments. Just to remind Mrs. Minister and the MPs that we are still at schools in Belgrade, in the village of Bolevac, having a school with an outside toilet, and we are talking about some improvement, etc., which has nothing to do with the real situation in the country of Serbia, in which we, ladies and gentlemen live in poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4011	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4012	In Article 6. The draft laws define the responsibilities of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, i.e. the Office for the Promotion and the Office for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education has been defined. According to this concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the council elected in the Republika Srpska Assembly, the government forms two institutions, two institutions that will be under the government's patronage. One is an institution for improving education and education, and the other is an institution for estimating the quality of education and education. Also, with this proposal, the first of these two institutions has an obligation to establish four centres. Each of the institutions and centres can educate various professional teams. The promoter said in his explanation that this proposal rationalises, that the number of people involved in various councils, institutions, centres, but when this is seen, we conclude that nothing on this matter has improved and done, only repacking has been done, regrouping these people. It stays the same, it'll probably be the same number of people hired. I would like to ask Mrs. Minister: How many employees are there in the Ministry of Education and Sports in the Republic of Serbia? How many people and are these people trained and trained to do many of the jobs that are being put into the jurisdiction of these institutions, centres or councils here, under this bill of law? If we now transfer all the responsibilities that the Ministry had previously performed to the institutions, centres or councils, what will the Ministry do? I just said, under this bill, the Ministry was deprived of what I consider basic, and these are the plans and programmes of primary and secondary education. Gentlemen, if the Ministry doesn't have an obligation to even get to know the plans and the programs, why does it even exist? The ministry has no obligation under this proposal to agree on plans and programmes for primary and secondary education. So there's no obligation to meet those acts. How can the ministry then present to the public the position of our education, the process of education, the situation in education? This government concept differs significantly from our concept and we are for the real rationalisation of these institutions dealing with education in Serbia. We thought that this bureaucratic apparatus had decreased significantly, and therefore we predicted that the professional bodies were formed on the council. We've left an opportunity for the council to form a permanent commission to carry out these tasks. Not to double jurisdiction and responsibility, to go through advice that will be an advisory body, but to have expert committees, which will be able to make proposals from a professional point of view, which the council would adopt and then forward as proposals to the ministry, or to the government. The government would consider them and give them agreement or correction. It's the only way we can achieve rationality in this area. Otherwise, this system remains in fact what it was, nothing will essentially change, only there will be other names of institutions, centres, expert teams etc. One more thing that matters. Again on the Educational Committee, we heard that there are some higher reasons for these centers to survive. It's about centres that exist in the existing law, they're only reduced to four now, but there are higher goals, interests or reasons for these centers to survive. I'd like the minister to say so publicly, that the nation hears, which are higher reasons why the centers survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4013	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4014	This insistence of the majority in the National Assembly makes it practically necessary for citizens to watch in direct transmissions as the democratic bloc spills itself from hollow to empty. Yes, unfortunately, that's right. We're witnessing it. The fundamental changes between Gashi's law and the motion to amend these provisions absolutely do not exist. No, and no matter how much this new government has criticized Gasha, she's amnesting him this way. Be assured, it amnests him, because they're on the same track, on the same path, going the same way. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Anyone who works in education should look at what is written in Article 17 of the existing law, and he will see. Two, it says centers, a kind of centre, so seven centres are listed, so when you look at what this new government is proposing, it is said – the education and education institutions and the education and education service, and repeats what could be jurisdiction, but retains the provision that it is about institutions that operate under public service regulations. So it's about independent legal persons, directors, cars, space and some advisory strategic jobs, goals, etc. And now the question is -- so is it possible that we have such a layman's ministry of education that we can't hold on to any professional work? We come up with a conceptual difference with regard to the organisation of the state and the exercise of power when it comes to education. I'd like to draw your attention, take a look at the explanation, to see the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Only what the state has to do with the education system is listed here, but there is no fundamental human right to education anywhere. He's gone. He didn't make a call to that constitutional basis. We also come to that central media manipulation, which we have been exposed to for a month and a half, where Gašo says – at the centre of his law is a student, and the new government says – at the center of our reform is a teacher. Please, it doesn't matter either way. The rest are Gashi's centers, Gashi's experts, the Gashi's organization, and evidence that he spent the money properly from insiders to reform our schooling. And then we go with story 3 plus 3 plus 3 or 4 times plus 3, vertical, horizontal, yard, starting point. New terms, something new, and it's all going around empty. I warn you again, Mr. Prince, this people do not allow intellectual stupidity. So you can talk to nine, and 12, and 17, and 18, and this people are intelligent. Natural intelligence. He recognizes everything. Look at everything. This people know best what kind of experts they have. In the center of education students, in the center of education teachers, so go with that story to any village school and listen. Well, if you care so much about education, you didn't bring back something that used to be. To make that school a real institution that deals with enlightenment. Look in the villages, it's all closed. And those village teachers who teach classes for four, five or ten students deserve a national hero's medal. They preserved our education, not your centers and the Belgrade circle of two, and all of what Soros is funding here. Are you looking for a connection to the world? You're looking for a connection via your giro account. Why don't you look for a connection with something normal, through a simple country teacher's account. No, it's over your centers, and you're distracting us here. Change, withdraw this law and bring something normal, from which it is possible to produce some result, and abandon your centers, your institutions and your top experts. Well, I told you what kind of experts they are. Gašo Knezevic doesn't know what a complex administrative act is. It cancels out under the law of oversight, and everyone who at least one percent understands themselves right in this country laughs at the lazy Gashi.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4015	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4016	I have to admit one thing: I had a problem with the term myself - the outcome. We tried to find another word. She seemed strange to me. Every month I had a meeting with representatives of religious communities on the occasion of religious science. At one of those meetings, I informed them of the creation and the basic solutions of the new law. The Serbian Orthodox Church was represented by Mr Irinej Bulovic. I asked him directly if we could use it or if you had anything to say - the outcome. Mr. Irinej Bulovic, in front of witnesses, and there were at least 15 in the room, replied that the Serbian Orthodox Church supports the term - the outcome. Please, the truth works, Mr. Irinej Bulovic is, thank God, I wish him long health, alive and well. Ask him, all suspects, about my dilemma and our conversation. Thank you so much for the cream, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4017	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here an hour ago a fellow MP from the parliamentary majority, producing an enormous amount of noise for this pay phone, tried to be funny and compared the lanes and the Socrates. Of course, he's out, and he'll come here when it's voting day, and now he's at home and he's following us here to discuss the law. There are now 110 MPs present, along with the MPs of the SRS, and we will see how much you will be able to be here while we discuss this law. Namely, this amendment to Article 6 proposes that Article 17 of the basic law be deleted, and the addition of the law provided for the erasure of titles and articles 17 and the writing of a new member. In fact, what did that accomplish? In the previous law, which is still valid until the new one is passed, seven centres were formed. This law provides for the establishment of two institutions, one of these institutions has a new four centre. When she sums it up, it's a total of six, and then Mrs. Minister said here that rationalization would take place. It would be a rationalization for one less if the office and the centers were institutions of the same rank. However, seductions, both organisational and structural, and in every other way, are institutions of different rank, are much wider, even institutes of the moment when they cease to have less than 17 staffed doctors, which means that, in total, a massive bureaucratic apparatus will increase. When we demanded that our amendments be lifted and that two permanent committees be formed in the framework of the council, Mrs. Minsiter, and I would like to repeat it here in front of all the MPs and in front of the Serbian public, she said that the institutions must survive in law because we are being blackmailed with $10 million to implement this law. However, our implementation of this law, I mean the budget and the state, will cost, in addition to that 10, 20 more. I only ask those who support this government to realize that they can do this much more developed European countries and the United States, because they have a lot of money and they can pile up administration and create a strong state apparatus. Look, gentlemen, you who know everything, the map of the world, and you will see that today, the richest countries of the world are those that were colonial or slave-owned forces, or have waged conquest wars. All other countries, which wanted to develop peacefully, remained in the grip of this development. Now, I'm asking you -- can we, like a country that was forced in the last century alone, to third time create the original accumulation of capital, after the First World War, after the Second World War and after these latest events, whose contemporaries we are, accept the standards that prescribing highly developed European countries, and follow them at a rate, but only in this administrative respect. I urge you once on the agenda of this assembly to come to some law that will concern the economy, to which we will hire people, to start the economy. And when we have enough resources for the economy budget, healthy resources, not to depend on anyone's charity, then we create ourselves an administrative structure, which will monitor not only education but all the systems that are present in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4019	The People's Messenger Goran Jocic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals feel that further expansion of the administration is unnecessary. We think these funds could be used for more useful purposes. I come from Pukovec, it is the municipality of Doljevac, Niški district, and the primary school in Doljevac has about 1.009 students. The example works, at the Pukovec elementary school where there are about 450 students, it is necessary to adapt the roof, so roof structure. The village of Kočane has started to adapt to a four-grade ward and it stops. It was also done in the village of Capljinac. For example, a physical hall is needed at the school in Malošište, which also belongs to the "Vuk Karadzic" elementary school in Doljevac. A physical hall is needed in Belotinac, there is a need for heating in Belotinc, in a four-class section in the village of Cecin, which is also an integral part of the eight-grade school "Vuk Karadzic" – Doljevac. For example, children go to a Polish toilet that has no more conditions. So, the appeal to the Ministry to take a little thought and to use those resources more wisely, and the administrations are really too much for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4021	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4022	This is another proof that this is the same regime in continuity for four years. You've just turned the centers into an entanglement, and what else have you done with this proposal? Nothing. I had to tell you this in order to understand the senselessness of most of this law. If you've claimed before that you don't want to go to the ministries of various centers, councils, seductions, I ask you, what is this? At least be consistent with what you're saying sometimes. This doesn't make sense, like a lot of other things in this country, because there's a situation going on like when we have one worker and 10 counselors telling him what to do. Now we're back in the situation that we have schools without heating, no toilets, no computers, but we have thousands of different consultants, to quote – development planners, advisors, researchers, etc. We suggest, as you have already heard from Mr. Zoran Krasic, that you withdraw this law, re-preparate it and discuss it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4023	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4024	Here's a chance, Madam Minister, to save a budget set for the Ministry of Education and Sports, modest in terms of needs, here's a chance to save and to focus those funds on the other side: instead of centres, we propose the formation of two commissions. National MP Igor Bečić proposed the formation of two commissions, one for improving education and education, which performs professional tasks in the preparation of regulations from the council and the ministry, as well as other tasks in accordance with the law, so where you have a strategic development centre, it will be just one of the Commission's tasks, where the development centre for programs and textbooks was, it will be just one of the commission's jobs, where the Centre for Professional Development of Employees is also going to be just one of the jobs of the Commission and where it was a centre for professional and artistic education, another of the Commission's jobs. This amendment would result in economic rationalisation from the aspect of budgetary burdens, so that you could spend more rationally and wisely on funds. After all, the name "institute" or "center", if it spends the resources that are much more needed on the other side of your ministry in the same ministry, you should think a little more rationally about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4025	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 6a after Article 6. National MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain briefly and clearly why I submitted on behalf of the SRS a proposal to amend that Article 7. In fact, from the discussion of all my colleagues in the SRS so far, you have seen that we are very different in terms of how to organise the work and work of the National Council. In doing so, we advocate that there are two committees on the national council, which will take over all the necessary information so far, and also extend their activity to the possibility of forming some new bodies that will include professional work in education. For these reasons, I have suggested that the introductory sentence of Article 7 be changed and the title above Articles 18 and Articles 18 to 22 be deleted. As for the reasons of this proposal, I believe that the SRS's commitment to the establishment of permanent committees is such as to demonstrate the unnecessary and unnecessary existence of institutions and centres, i.e. that both the shelters and the centers are too high. There are two basic reasons why we suggested this. The first is rationality, and the second is efficiency. I think we've talked about it enough. I'll just say one thing. The competence of the National Council is clearly differentiated by the proposal for this law. However, from this competence of the National Council, they draw the responsibility of the commission that we have proposed to form. For these reasons, the work of the National Council and the commission are compatible. So what's most important here is that we agree on whether it's going to be a national council or, as the minority in this House suggests, not to be called a national council. What matters to the SRS is that this advice is also called national, but in addition to that, our entire education and education to be national. I think we're right and our voters can make the best decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4027	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and the People's Messenger Jovanovic, and the People's Messenger Vesenović. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, People's MP Martic. Just call me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4028	You skipped the amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4029	I didn't skip anything, but no one answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4030	I was here and you weren't looking. You didn't read the proposal at all to delete the amendment. I've been here, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4031	I'm sorry, the sixth amendment you submitted was read and no one answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4032	I was sitting in the back, there were MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4033	You can get a stenogram to make sure I read it and no one answered the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4034	Please deliver it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4035	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4036	Please, I just warned you that the amendment to Article 4. Aleksandra Radosavljevic, too. I asked you to check the stenographic notes. I ask you to take a break in the session, to establish in the stenographic notes that you have left the amendment to Article 4. Aleksandra Radosavljevic and the amendment to Mr. Miroslav Martic's 6th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4037	I'm sorry, you can't go back to the pay phone 100 times. Anyone can get stenographic notes on their request, so does anyone else respond to Article 7? Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4038	In order to make it clear to the public, the SRS requires that Articles 18 to 22 be deleted by this amendment. Here's the thing. Article 18 - Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, Article 19 - Center for Strategic Development, Article 20 - Center for the Development of Programs and textbooks, Article 21 - Centre for Professional Development of Employees, Article 22 - Centre for Professional and Art Education. It all exists in a version that changes this bill. It's just another evidence of spilling from the hollow to the blank. Once again, the new jury account, something new again, and our concept is that we should only have one professional and professional institution in education, which will be responsible for these professional jobs and qualified to be a high-quality promoter to the ministry, and it should practically stand and hold a complete education in our country. For what? It's because of that member of the Constitution that speaks of freedoms, rights and duties of man and citizen, that the state guarantees education. When the state guarantees it, it guarantees it both in Belgrade, both in Subotica and in some village. All professional jobs should be carried out within the framework of the council, as the only institution that has a whole throughout the education project, in order to have the consent and compatibility of everything proposed to the ministry in terms of education. Unfortunately, neither does this government accept the concept, but it wants to be broken capillaryly. Of course, as a marketing move, we use decentralisation, so professionalization, so the concentration of the profession in one place, so I can do a few more of these foreign terms, which essentially mean nothing, but what has become a mania since 2000, that is, since January 25, 2001, which is that in our policy we promote the principle- the frog where horses are weaned, and she has raised her leg. Possible agencies, possible capillaries, are possible in one Germany, in one France, in large countries, in one Russia, a vast country, in the United States is possible, but Serbia is a small country. We can't imitate the institutions all, we can't. As for those recommendations, all these international organisations, associations and institutions we seek, no recommendation, no directive is so binding. They're all practically a guideline in which direction something needs to be done. I would just like to point out one principle, several international legal documents exist in which an appeal is being made, orders, recommend the abolition of the death penalty. We still have countries where there are death sentences. Recommendations, directives, should only be understood as a recommendation and something that indicates which direction to go. We agree, we need to be compatible with the environment, with Europe, with the world, if you want the North and South Pole, since I see you're arguing about the term. All of this must have some measure. All of this has to have some basis and all of it has to have one goal. We as a small country, a small nation should have as many general educated people as possible, who can when they go abroad and with their general knowledge and ability to do any job offered to them, show their ability and their inventiveness. It's not guaranteed by these centers. They just guarantee spending money and cover something someone already spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4039	The word is made by the MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4040	This amendment is the result of our previous amendments, that is, our concept as we understand it, and how we imagine an organization of these institutions that we need to deal with in education at all. In this amendment, members from 18 to 22 relating to centres, which are required by this proposal, should be deleted in order to improve education and education. We have already said that these centres are unnecessary for us and that we should come up with this on advice through the permanent commissions or the occasional board of councils. The bottom line of all this is to reduce bureaucratic apparatus, to reduce the resources that citizens of this country stand out for education, which are not directly in the function of education. These are funds spent by various officials who essentially do not work very much and whose contribution is not great in the complete process of education and education. If we already have the resources, why don't we deal with something that's reform. What I'm talking about isn't real reform, it's not the essence of what we need. I mentioned yesterday, why don't we ask ourselves if we can and in what way reduce the number of students in the class, improve the quality of teaching. We now have the law to define that there can be up to 30 students in the department. If we go through schools, there are 40 students in our departments. It's impossible to teach in such a class. It is impossible to examine twice during the half-years of students in such a class, let alone four times, how much the existing law required. If we can save some resources and realize that we are going into this reform, try gradually to reduce the number of students in the departments, and make it easier for teachers and students to work, to increase the earning of employees in education, to restore the authority that is at an extremely low level, let's go to essential reforms, that's the point. Let's cut the programs, get everything out of the program, cut the plans. We now have a situation that students in secondary vocational schools who are educated for third-degree occupations, specifically in machine schools locksmiths, auto mechanics, are studying some general professional items in a range that is abnormally high. It's unacceptable for a locksmith to study history three times, three hours a week. Why don't we reduce the number of these general education classes, or the number of general education classes, for the benefit of general and constraint subjects. Let's get these kids out of school with some knowledge that they have enough to start a job, not to train at school for two years in the companies they're hired to do, if they're hired. These are essential steps that need to be taken to change something in education better. All of these are some changes, but they're not fundamental changes that directly touch students, teachers, so all of this electoral process of education, classrooms and children in the classroom. Why do we waste funds on something that's excessive, unnecessary, why don't we point them at the things that matter, which are essential, which are the most important. You know what our teachers work with. It all comes down to chalk and board, and a table in bad shape, on those boards you can't see what it says. Why don't we focus these resources on the acquisition of modern educational resources that this Europe, which we are calling for, the benefits, our children see... (President: Time. )... how it's done out there, even if our children find out more easily and faster what we're trying to pass on to them in those classes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4041	The word is made by the People's MP Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see from the amendments so far, and you could certainly see the concept of the amendments of the SRS, and you can see that it all comes down to the rationalisation and reduction of the bureaucratic apparatus, and simply reduces the commitments for the Republic of Serbia's budget and the issuance of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These institutions are really unnecessary, and while I was working at the Ministry of Education, I had a chance to check on them. Unfortunately, that's where I never found those experts at the Bureau. It is mainly picked up by experts from colleges, secondary schools and some institutes, etc., as formed by the Government and I don't know, the administrative authority -- they are formed by the Ministry of Education in part, and part of the Government, and I can't remember how now. It's simply that their jurisdiction is unknown, their responsibility and who they are responsible for is unknown. You have a clause there, where it says that if the Institute or the Centre doesn't perform its role for which it's formed, then the Ministry will do so alone. There is no responsibility of this center or institution to whoever formed it, or organized it. That's the main problem. Regardless of what the countries or European missions or other other organisations of Europe are asking us to do, we believe that the abolition of these institutions and centres would result in a major rationalisation in the Ministry of Education and that would put an end to it; and the National Educational Council would be given the right role in its work. I believe that the Minister of Education himself will see to it when he wishes and when they are regrouped by pre-existing institutions, perhaps slightly reduced, will convince which of the powers of the Minister of Education and how much they will fulfil their obligations to the Ministry of Education. I usually say, these people are on their way, and sometimes in that communist system it used to be a bureaucratic apparatus, and now these centers are used to launder money. It's just that the easiest thing to do is to wash the money across these centers, where you don't know who's responsible for who. Therefore, much insists on the establishment of such centres and institutions. The problems of education are huge and great. I come from New Market, where all city schools work on three shifts. It's something that's rare in this country, but here, I know what's said and said here, it's concentrated in Belgrade. They have all these organizations, i.e. advice, shelters and centres and expert teams, etc. However, we forget that it is not only Belgrade, Serbia. Serbia, however, is a big country and Serbia should be treated equally in all segments of its entire space. If a Bosniak language is introduced now in the area of Stara Raška, and what some parties in the area advocate, I wonder how the teaching process will take place in the area of Stara Raška. This is a major task for the Minister of Education, and I think it will be an additionally difficult environment for normal teaching in these areas. In the end, I urge all MPs of this high house to understand the essence of our amendments and to accept not only our amendment, but all the amendments of the SRS, because the citizens of both hands will accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4043	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4044	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this whole story about this being some kind of epochal law, which will fundamentally change all the mistakes that the previous law of Gaša Knezevic made to our basic education, and even in that technical sense, I can say that only the mere desires of the promoter and his desire to present it to the Serbian public. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law does not differ significantly in the very functioning and basics of education from the previous law, at least when it comes to what the proposer means to say, it leads to improving education and education. What is their role under this law and what will be their role in that system that this government, or promoter, wants to establish in our education. Earlier under the old law, which is still in force, whose changes and additions are being made, there were centres, and these centres were determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there were several centres, as many as seven centres. They were established and functioned in line with the government's programme of the Republic of Serbia. However, instead of the centre, the promoter is instituting an institution and the institution is re-establishing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the institution for improving education and education and the institution for estimating the quality of education and education. What is crucial in this law, which is epochal, seduces the founding of centers now, imagine now this great epochal difference and this political story of the promoter. So far, the centers have been founded by the government, and now they're being seduced and they're implementing politics. According to the proposal of this law, we have a centre for strategic development, a centre for development of programs and textbooks, a centre for professional development of employees, a centre for professional and artistic education. We had something similar in the previous law according to all these points and attitudes, even parts that change and the competences of the centers themselves differ in words, such as keeping accounts and especially watching. These are epochal changes which are why we now have to work until this item of the agenda, that is, this session is over. As much as it is the proposal's wish to make a better one, which I doubt is possible with one of these proposals, I think this law will be far more expensive for our education. We are all aware of the facts of the material situation of our education. We are aware that especially in underdeveloped municipalities and smaller rural areas of the school, they are on the verge of losing their work permits. However, for some fairy tales that are spoken here in this assembly, we plan to establish new institutions that will not significantly improve the conditions under which our children go to school, but will be extremely well-ready to improve the material position of employees in these institutions, because they will be financed from the budget. What is now being done and what is wanted by this amendment and supplementation proposal is, in fact, the ministry's job. The ministry is the one that needs to take care of these responsibilities, not some of the ones that lists seduces or centres, which essentially serve as a cover for new jobs in the state administration. The whole process suggests reminding me of that story we had when we discussed the Republic of Serbia's budget and other legal proposals concerning tax policy. It means that the government's goal, which continues the continuity of the previous one, is to increase the state administration, so much to burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia that it slowly but certainly impoverishes the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our industry. There were stories about some agencies closing down. Yes, you've closed nine agencies, but in just two weeks' time you've opened up three new agencies and, I see, these new regulations will slowly take you some time to open a lot more than nine agencies in a period of maybe two months.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4045	The word is Mr. Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4046	The amendment to Article 7 has been submitted and I am reporting for it. It is understood that DS - Boris Tadic and the SRS have different concepts and I do not insist on it at all, because it is understood. My view is that the changes that began in 2003 are good and should be continued. Here I now notice that some centers are being created within the promotional office, four are the centers. Two serious failures have been made. One failure concerns secondary vocational education and a centre for it, which was also meant to be by the logic of things. Other failures are children with special needs, i.e. a centre for education of persons in need of special social support. Children with special needs are our children and what is noticeable from some of the statements made by the new ministry, that is to sort of turn a little around from their needs. We tried to convince the Ministry of Finance, at a time when Bozidar Djelic was headed, to enable us, to give us additional funds, to include children with special needs in the normal departments, therefore, in those departments where they are all going, and there is no reason why they are not going, but the financial problems have prevented us, because an assistant teacher or teacher needed to be introduced into the process, which would greatly increase costs. That is why I appeal to another, not to simplify the organisational scheme, but to add new schemes. Next, I'd like to say something. It's true that the number of students in some departments is over 40. Then when the government I was in was formed, there was also a high school with 57 students in one class in Belgrade. That's terrible. However, statistics are amazing and ruthless. Our relationship as a schoolteacher or teacher is one to eleven. We are at the head of irrationality in this relationship, because in the world, the average is one to twenty. So, I've had, uh, pressure to reduce the number of employees, all the pressures we've resisted, especially the problems of small country schools. None of that little dwarf village school is closed, because we are fully aware of the problem and that closing school may be death for a small village, village. We didn't do any of that. However, the network of schools, maintenance of schools and salaries and teaching programs, therefore, everything that is insisted on as a reason for changing this law is not in this law. They are either in an act on a network of schools and brought by the Serbian Government, or in the Law on Budgets adopted on a proposal from the other ministry, that is to say, in plans and programmes that, we will see end the procedure, bring by someone other than the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are we in favor of abolishing these centers and why are we proposing to delete these members? You see, the former law was a reform law, or basic law, whose amendments are required by these amendments and additions. This should represent reforms that have been initiated and by law, by some general logic, should in itself produce negativity; it means that reforms do not exist at all. However, this law reduced primary education to eight years, the introduction of a national council is envisaged, which we members of the SRS supported. However, it seems that this continuity with the former government, between the former and this government, has been kept through the program, I don't know who the author is, I suppose, who can be the author of this joint programme, and that programme is only in the administrative section. Why is the insistence of this government to create a governing elite in a state that has no means to support it, because we can't make Serbia where we're all going to wear a bow tie and play the piano, we can't do it as much as we want. In Serbia there must also be those who will produce, who will produce a product that we will be able to sell and from that money we can create some elite, but relatively to the number and what is capable of producing our economy. We ask for the erasure of these institutions, we ask that they do not exist, not because of it – and if the Minister of Education convinced us that by establishing these institutions and keeping them, in fact, the end of that administrative apparatus that needs to be implemented by the law, maybe the members of the SRS would accept and tell me, that is the end – we are looking for it because it will later set up centres, it will be further established from the centres of expert teams, and it is envisaged that people who are in expert teams are at rest working in the institutions from which they come, and a huge number of professionals are created. Another minister, when she explained on several occasions this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, said that this law provides a practical opportunity for the establishment and establishment of new institutions, could still go, if the law gives the possibility, make sure that the administration at the state level will always take advantage of it. If they are given any opportunity to start some other groups within these expert teams, perhaps some subgroups, then we will eventually be able to do some work with pencils and paper. Then we'll cramp, what little remains in the economy, want to take it off their backs so we can support ourselves. It doesn't just follow this, it tracks a huge number, physically I mean, a building, conditions that should be provided for computer equipment, further, vehicles, professional staff as well. Therefore, you will adopt this law and I am sure you will not accept the amendments of the SRS. We'll be witnessing that you won't be able to implement it, we'll be able to collapse the budget, it's a huge deficit anyway, we'll be able to fill what we need for basic giving. And by eliminating these centers, by eliminating what we're proposing, at least we'd be in a situation where we can survive this year and try to start something from the economy this year. This is how we're gonna bring down every attempt and desire to start the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4049	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled an amendment and is asking for Members 18 to 22 to be deleted; this was rejected with an explanation that it does not comply with the concept of the law. We say that all the time. I'll remind you of that amendment that I explained earlier, because now you can see that the SRS was right a moment ago, if anyone had any doubts about it. So, I'll repeat that you've turned the centers into institutions and left everything the same as before. These before you or the same you, there was no difference, in the centers they thought the children were riding brooms, and now you're thinking in institutions. It's obvious that you've worked very hard to work on the law, so I'm asking you once again, so I repeat, please withdraw the law and think about it a little bit, and let's talk about it. I hope if I ask you ten more times, you're really going to take it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4051	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4052	I'm identifying myself, not according to the Rules of Procedure. In order for this law to be implemented, it is obvious that the minister has proposed a whole series of institutions that should do so, it is quite massive and what we can see at first sight. Mrs. Minister had the intention to somehow distance herself from the massive settlements from the legacy of the basic law that we are now supplementing, however, it failed to complete it. The institution remained bulky. Instead of three tips is one, the centers are now four. Indeed, Mr. Stevovic made an excellent proposal, which had already been excommunicated earlier, to turn it all into expert commissions, to really reduce the administrative network. In this way it is actually declared that the current ruling coalition does not have the courage to carry out a distinction to what has been done, that it really says that being a law is not a measure of the ruling majority, or at the will of the citizens who have said what they think about it, the end of the story. We're changing it and it's going to be reform. We wanted the reform, the reform is in our concept; but it's simply left to some minimal change, only to make it known and to the first degree, to throw out the fact that the primary school education system is four plus four, two degrees instead of three degrees. I think it is necessary to support this proposal, because we will have a situation where it will be possible for these centers to form new advice, so the question is whether each institution, each center, will be able to form its own commissions. Whether the institute is just one body that will represent a set of people, how many will be in it when they form centres, so when they receive the opinion of the centre, they pass on to the government, so the government should forward the advice, a very complicated way of communication, so that, for example, the problem of the final and graduate exams programme would be given the opinion of the Center for Strategic Development, and that opinion would be forwarded to the probably advice, the council would pass on to the minister, and that is the system of communication that is multipled. It was simpler that the commission, which would do so on its own, was submitted by the minister, the minister was in charge and the number of people involved in decision-making and the implementation of this education strategy was reduced as well as imagined. I think this proposal should be supported, and yet this is also the measure of the ruling coalition's relationship to the proposals of the radicals. We're gonna be persistent, we're gonna hold on to this, we're paying the price of bad insider deals, which are from two or three days ago, but now that's what we're gonna do, we're gonna hold this, this marathon session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4053	Here you go. National MP Boban Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4054	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, erasing members 18 to 22, proposed by the SRS, would directly contribute to reducing certain education costs. Today we have a bill that doesn't deal with the fundamental problem of education, as my previous colleagues in the SRS have mentioned here. But, you seem, like the previous minister, you want us to make a law by reputation of the laws of the European countries. Neither our schools are like European schools, nor our employees in education have an approximate salary, as do employees in some European countries. In Pirot, where I come from, all schools are in very bad shape, in a very bad situation, in a state of minimum working conditions. You, instead of reducing all these unnecessary costs, are building up certain structures in education with this bill, which costs, cost all of us, costs all of Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4055	Anyone else want a word? The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister is not here, and the reason why I came out is because of the argument we received from the Government, which is why this amendment is not accepted. So he says, for from the authority of the center of the institute you can see the authority of the institute. It would be the same as counting legs, counting how many sheep there are. I wanted to draw the attention of the Minister. Otherwise, it is in our interest to amend and supplement the law and for these reasons we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4057	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4058	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment has not been accepted and frankly to tell you this wonders me. I'm surprised for one simple reason: here we are full of stories about improving the quality of education, about experts, about the journey to Europe, etc., and the amendment reads like this – that in the framework of the education and education services as one of the centres is established and a center for talented people. Here, by not accepting the amendment, we don't want a talent center. By the way, let me remind you that the Republic talent center already exists. The Republic talent centre has 14 regional centres for now and one place has been reserved, and unfortunately for me and unfortunately not yet the regional centre has been formed, a place for Kosovo and Metohija has been reserved for a regional centre that will include talented students from Kosovo and Metohija. I'm going to take just a little bit of time to read the names of the managers of individual centers, regional talent centers, just to see what it's about and who it's about. Dr Milos Pavlovic, Director of the Republic Centre, Professor Dr Zdravko Vejnović, Professor Dr Herceg Dragoslav, Dr Vojislav Filipović, Professor Miomir Vukicevic, Dr Mile Dimitrijevic, Master Dragoljub Tucic, Professor Miroslav Spasojevic, Professor Dr Dusan Simić etc. The Governing Board of the Republic Centre for talent was transferred to the property of the Republic of Serbia by its decision last year, and by the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the time. All his rights and obligations have been transferred to the property of the Republic of Serbia, and according to one member of the government's conclusion, the Republic's founding and governing rights has a percentage in which it has property. The Republic of Serbia has 100 per cent ownership of the Republic Centre for talent and system of regional centres. So it has 100 percent of its founding and governing rights. It's all very nicely brought, except the Republic talent center, regional talent centers, with these people listed, hangs in the air. With the amendment, I just wanted to find a place for the Republic talent center. If the Ministry of Education and Sports believes that the place of the Centre for talent is not within the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, if the Ministry of Education and Sports considers that the place of the Republic Centre for talent and system of regional centres is not in the Ministry of Education and Sports, come on, be kind and say that it is the place of the Republic and regional centres for talent at the Ministry of Capital Investments, because they are talented really capital investments. Just one more thing and I'm done. You know, for a hundred years, we've been bragging about how we're best at friendly games. And for a hundred years, we've been the moral winners of the official games. Let's turn it around sometime. Let's not be undiscovered talents anymore. Let's not be moral winners anymore. Let's not be the best in friendly games. Let's be the best in the official competition once. I am sorry that the minister, Mrs. Colic, is not there, to remind her of her words, spoken in an interview; I quote: "It is not an important start, it is not an important start, it is a final point". You're welcome if you're very talented in the fifth grade of primary school, if there's no one to take care of you. You'll be just one of those talents that's passed and no one will ever know anything about again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4060	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have proposed this amendment to propose that we in one institutional way regulate the relationship between the Government, or the state, and members of the national minorities. Namely, in this Article 7. The bill would add seven new positions. So, "for the purposes of education and education in the languages of national minorities, a centre for education and education is established in the languages of national minorities. The Centre for Education and Education in the Languages of National Minorities shall carry out the tasks of the council in the fields of education and education in the languages of national minorities, i.e. for pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. The Centre for Education and Education in the Languages of National Minorities proposes to the Minister of Fundamental Education and Education Programmes for Preschool, Primary and Medium Education in the Languages of National Minorities. The Centre for Education and Education in the Languages of National Minorities proposes to the Minister of Education and Education in the Languages of National Minorities. Then, the director of the centre appoints a minister on a proposal from the National Council of National Minorities. "I thought that one such centre, which would work within the ministry, would make minimum compliance with the standards so-called. The minority Corps of Questions. It needs millions of citizens, who make up members of 38 national minorities, to make partner relations with the state in this very important segment, such as education. I felt and still believe that although Mrs. Colic is not there, one such amendment in a systematic way, legally, institutionalally, would establish this relationship, and besides the establishment of such a relationship and respect for this minority body of rights is simply an international obligation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4061	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milojub Albianic, Nadica Momirovic and Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4062	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. I suggested that the title above Article 23 be deleted and Article 23 be read differently. "The Committee for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education shall carry out professional tasks in the field of monitoring, evaluation and assurance of quality of education and education by levels and species, as well as other tasks in accordance with the law: 1) evaluation of the work of teachers, educators, professional associates and institutions; 2) to verify the outcome of the prescribed objectives and tasks of education and education at the Republic level; 3) to monitor compliance of the system of evaluation and assurance of quality of education and education with overall comparative systems of evaluation and quality assurance of education and education. "The reason is that this amendment carries out economic rationalisation from the aspect of budgetary burdens, as institutions as special institutions are abolished and their competence is transferred to the permanent commissions, which are formed at the National Education Council. At the same time, better coordination is being achieved, as commissions are permanent council bodies, and institutions have been envisaged as government institutions. I received a reply from the government of the Republic of Serbia saying the amendment is not accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the bill. It is the essence of the concept, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The bottom line is, we tend to clean out all that ballast, all the bureaucratic machinery, and to enlighten those funds, which are usually thin, for other purposes, for other purposes. A little while when I defended the amendment of MP Igor Mirovic, the minister replied to me - did you hear that we have to take over employees who are in centres and institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not about recruits in education, those who, after the cathedral and with the diary in their hands, have a sacred task to make our children into educated people, useful members of the community tomorrow. It's a bureaucratic machine, and you know that bureaucracy is the only one, except for amoeba, that has the ability to spread through the division, so when you bring one bureaucrat into place, in three days he'll create the need for another, so the two of them for four more, etc. The previous minister, Gašo Knezevic, has filled the centres and advice, as they have already been called, with such a bureaucratic apparatus. Today, instead of thinking about those who teach our children, and who have 16 or 15, or 14,000 dinars of pay, we raise the standard, to give them a better standard, and MP Zlatan Jovanovic said - today in schools everything comes down to chalk and board, and we talk about computers. There may be several schools in Belgrade computers. Schools in the interior don't have them, but it all literally comes down to chalk and board. Instead of the minister taking care of this very educational staff, three days ago we had before the Ministry, in front of the government, a strike of students and teachers, once an elite, third Belgrade high school. It's about the self-will of the executive staff and the high school, it's about the fact that the highest-quality teachers and teachers, whom students worship, who have passed on their knowledge, have been chicanated and eventually fired, in order to eventually bring in not professional but similar. The Minister didn't find it appropriate to solve such problems. The directors who were brought in on the party key are still walking our schools today. I know the opportunity of three or four years ago, when at one school in Batajnica for the head of the school, he was appointed... (President: Time. Excuse me, you've got 10 seconds left. )......................................................................................................... A completely inadequate man, not to speak of his code and his disease, and from where he was removed an expert who had managed the school very successfully for 20 and a few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4063	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger, the Gasho Princes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4064	Now it may seem like I'm defending the position of the promoter, but I'm only defending one concept. All the lands around us have seductions. Republika Srpska has institutions. He's seizing the spending of 0.5% of the education budget. If you don't have an instrument, you can't run an expensive school. Every school, every serious education system is expensive. It's like if JAT bought a great plane and didn't buy command boards, he wouldn't buy radars. That's ridiculous. Let us not escape that other legal persons, other than the Ministry, are needed, in addition to the Ministry, as support of the Ministry and in a certain independent relationship with the Ministry, but also free to carry out other tasks in part. They'll get a lot of funding in time to take themselves off the budget. They need a start, and that start, according to all the data, is 0.5% of the education budget in the surrounding countries; that's what I'm talking about, we don't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4065	Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4066	You've seen these amendments create fluid. In the end, they're gonna kiss here. Gashi will defend this law. He only filed amendments out of vanity, which someone dared to touch his law, but there is no principled and ideological difference. You heard him, all the data he knows, both the environment and here. He's completely clear. The Ministry can't. Who knows what you've hired there from the GSS. I remember, at the Ministry of Health you hired a deputy man who finished his internship as an intern, a Maric from Triestenik. You're being baptized by the entire Trieste. It's the frames. Of course the Ministry can't. You were on the trail to destroy it completely. On the occasion of this amendment, let's hear it. And these promoters lost the compass, just like they did before. There's no concept difference here. There is no system here, what professional business is of interest to the state, what administrative organisations are, what the structure of the organisation of state authorities is. You can see we're breaking into the same things, but there's no difference between the proposings and the representatives of the previous regime. They extract professional jobs, capillaryly divide them into centres, institutions, teams, neighbours, representatives of the home council, etc., experts who come from the corner. It can't be done, gentlemen, the state has taken responsibility, the state is the only guarantee in education, and in Belgrade, and in Pirot, there's a guarantee everywhere. That's why this law has to be precise, clear, so we know who's responsible for the state of education. So, the Ministry has its responsibilities, and education-related professional jobs should be given advice, and how it will be organised – with commissions, with working groups, with bodies – that is something that is of interest to the law enforcement person. The National Assembly passed the law, and the laws are carried out by the executive authority, the government and the authorities of the state administration, which are ministries. You messed up the organization. Let me tell you what it looks like in practice. A few years ago, it was a law under which the founding rights of RTS were exercised by the National Assembly. It has a lot to do with this law, to show you that you have no concept, you lost the compass. The frog saw the horses weave, so let's get her foot up. It's your policy, and by the way it all costs, donations, debt, imagine our education 10 million dollars, the World Bank, so Soros, who goes in and out, how much money is being spent, which they allegedly came and stayed abroad through some services. It is being defended today by the promoters and those who are jumping against the SRS's adjectives. It can be done by the commission and by amendment and we propose. Let him do one commission, let him be within the council. What would the legislator be interested in if advisory consulting affairs and all professional affairs necessary for the functioning of the Ministerswe are properly regulated by law? The laws are carried out by the government through ministries, through professional organisations, associations and their administrations. You have to factor this out here, make it media, material and any other cover to satisfy your appetites. There are no students or teachers or educational programs in your reform. It's all about the organization of that extra part, which is probably and certainly necessary for our education, but which doesn't have to be this expensive, doesn't have to be this much autochton. You will see, and there is right Gašo Knezevic, the National Council, the Educational Council, will have the same fate as the Radiodifuge Council. Be safe. A large number of promoters, that's you – more grandmothers, squishy children. Do you remember what happened last year? Last year, we chose the council four times, so it happened that those who put the agenda item would vote against their proposal. That's how this is gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government is in continuance with the previous government. We have just heard the presentation of Ambassador Knezevic, where he refers to the Republika Srpska. Republika Srpska is under international protection. They seduce foreign services there to control the education system and to remove some Serbian writers from Serbian language, to change Serbian history or to shorten. That's the point of Republika Srpska. No partnership should be made between Republika Srpska, which is under the protectorate, and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4069	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4070	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you the text of the law. Unfortunately, those of you who support this government are either closed that text of the law, or you're reading the paper, or you're not following what we're talking about. Why am I telling you this? If you read the amendment to Article 7 relating to Article 23 of the basic law, you will see that in this amendment we only practically change the word "institute" in the word "committee" and do not dispute that these tasks prescribed by Article 23 should be carried out. It means that professional tasks relating to the evaluation of the work of teachers, educators, professional associates should be carried out, the results of the achievement of the prescribed objectives and tasks of education and education at the republican level, the consistency of the system of evaluation and the assurance of quality of education and education with the European level. We've figured it out with general parallel systems, etc. We don't argue that these jobs should be done. Our concept is that this is what commissions do. In that article, you said the council educates the committee and that's the point. There's no telling what these commissions are doing, what these commissions are doing. Some commissions are organized, which are not given a job that will work, so since they are not already given a job, why don't you give them this job. It's not what's listed as a big deal that can't be done by a commission and it's not a job that needs to be started by the office. The Institute is too big an institution and it costs a lot. If you had just accepted, if you didn't want that commission because it meant four centres, if at least this education-quality evaluation office were to be abolished, and a commission was to be established in the framework of a council to be completed, you would be in a much better situation in the implementation of this law. We received an explanation from the minister that some amendments to the ministry could not be accepted because of the international alignment of the programme with Europe. I guess we understand that we can harmonize all our laws with Europe with paper and thus we cannot declare ourselves as a country that will enter Europe hand-in-hand with all that Europe has. It is not worth harmonising laws if we do not raise the economy, standards and quality of education to that level at all to be acceptable to Europe. The law is easy to write, the law is paper, but to enforce the law, to educate a young generation, that's another. And remember, in 20 years' time, people are going to go to school and they're going to be sitting here where we sit, people who are going to run the country tomorrow, working in certain ministries. It depends on how many we and how many laws we now regulate, this system of education and education they need to go through, will depend on how in the future in this country, perhaps as pensioners, we will live in, and what country our children will live in. Please consider at least once more when you vote on some amendments, to think about those amendments that we have submitted, first of all, to Article 2 concerning Article 10, that at least this information that you have given to the Educational Quality and Education Office should be taken over by a permanent committee that would work in the council, which would not further burden the budget and create a huge number of institutions. Look at the amendment, none of these three basic things that need to be dealt with by the Bureau we haven't avoided, and they'd be dealt with by the commission. In some things, we have replaced the word "European" in the word "general" and in the first position of this law we have deleted "the act of founding and the statute". Therefore, it is really not our desire to prevent this law from being passed in any way. We may not be able to do this, but it is our desire to try to convince you to vote for some of these amendments, and believe that it will benefit both the children and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4071	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4072	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I was quite surprised by the former minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, when he came out here for a pay phone and said that all the countries in the environment, Republika Srpska and all the others, had an institution in their education and education system, that he knew that they were seducing 0.5% of the budget that was planned for schools, but that he couldn't answer us how much money he spent while he was a minister, at least for those same seductions. I have a great desire to see how much money he spent on this office. Even the system of education that was before these reforms, which began in the previous government, continued continuously with this government, was not a bad level and the quality of knowledge of students coming out of the education system, but began to fall when the state entered into a certain economic crisis and with the fall of financial opportunities to finance education systems, there was this collapse of a certain system. The bill doesn't solve this problem that is the primary in this whole story, which is that our schools, our education doesn't have enough money to school quality and good and raise our children. It is a problem, and with one such proposal to amend and supplement the law, counting on the continuity and previous laws of Gaša Knezevic, the problem is not solved but becomes even more pronounced. This amendment, submitted by the SRS MP, requires that Article 23 of the amendment and the addition of the law of an education and education institution be abolished and a commission should be set up to carry out the work, which is supposed to be carried out by an institution. The basis for this is in Article 2. Proposal to amend and supplement this law, in paragraph 5, that the National Council may educate permanent and occasional committees from the order of teachers, educators, professional associates and other prominent experts and scientists, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Knowing you as you are, these commissions have already been educated, you have already designated people who will enter these committees and are just waiting for the acting president of the Republic of Serbia to sign the law, to have this law come into force and that these commissions, which do not have to exist, are set up, while at the same time you are going to set up seduces to carry out commissions. Now the question is who will control whom, who will prescribe from whom, who will have the authority to have, who will be older in that system, who will be younger. The same job will be done by the commission and some advice, and basically the job should only be done by the ministry. Given the economic situation we are now in, that money should be saved on the state apparatus and on state bureaucracy, so that schools have more resources for their work, for teaching tools, textbooks, etc. I don't mind that one day we have advice and commission and that the only job of the minister is to travel through Serbia and open one school every day. I doubt it'll be your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4073	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4074	Unfortunately, sir, despite my best wishes, I cannot answer your question. In fact, the 2003 law that is now being amended was passed in June. The transitional and final provisions set a deadline for the establishment of the centre. Some of them were in over the years when the government changed, so we weren't in a position to determine how much money was spent on these centers. Therefore, in response to the previous question, I said that it is in the environment, i.e. in Republika Srpska, 0.5% of the budget, and how much we, I believe, because we are modest that we will not spend much more than that, but Mrs Ljilja Colic, the minister, will know, so the question may need to be asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4075	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see a minister getting closer and closer to the former minister, and I think the laws will get closer to you, and we'll have one bad law again. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. In the current law, we have members from 18 to 24 covering this Article of the 7th proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements. The MP Stevovic predicted that members 18 to 22 should be deleted, and MP Markovic regulated the matter related to Article 23. This amendment is a logical follow-up to what these two MPs have exhibited. It provides for the title above Article 24. (votes - expert teams) deletes, then Article 24 is changed, and it reads, "A member of the Permanent Commission rests his working relationship in the job from whom he is absent. "It's consistent with what the SRS stands for. So we're for a maximum-cheap machine, which is supposed to implement one of these laws, and basically nothing has changed compared to the previous law, as far as this machine is supposed to be doing it; we've had three tips before, and now we have advice and two institutions. So, there's still a big machine left. This is where we're supposed to split the office into some centers. Since Article 18 provides for four centres, I now understand where you get the motive for your pre-election slogan - in the center. If you've been shooting downtown with this law and you've been shooting downtown and with your candidate, you've missed out on the run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4077	Here you go. Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4078	I'd like to ask my colleague to hold a debate on the subject without having to do an election campaign. It is also correct that it was agreed in the beginning that presidential candidates do not use this pay phone, and I see that everyone is sticking to it, but we should also stick to this unwritten rule and not use and abuse the pay phone for the purpose of the election campaign, this is a fine constructive debate on amendments to this bill and I would really ask you, stick to it, not now about the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4079	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4080	Two or three more amendments and Ministers and Gašo will sit even in the same bench, I guarantee you. In the end, there will be a share of the common result, success. You see, we really differ in concept and there's a government right. She does not accept these amendments because the concepts do not fit what Gasho started, and this government continues. He's only trying to change his name to keep the same, because they're counting on the start of new education and future history to come from this government and from the epochal results. Of course, we don't have as a state of money to throw ourselves away, and we don't have the money to unfoundedly be in charge of someone who's supposed to be smart and bringing in some innovations, which are absolutely inadmissible to us. As you laughed ten minutes ago, you did not notice that you were going towards the members of the bill and concerning the members of the basic text of the law that are at the core of your wrong concept and approach to education. What's this about? A moment ago, one of your MPs threw it away when I suggested that there should be a parallel between something that was, and it was RTS. The founding rights were exercised by the Assembly, the Assembly was elected by the Management Board. At that time, it was all annulled and said, the founding rights should be exercised by the government, the Radio-Delefusing Council formed, and it takes over some responsibilities as an independent regulatory body. When you look at all your provisions regarding the council and the provisions of the Gashi law on three councils, and all the provisions on institutions and centres, and I'm making a parallel with what Gashi did, you come to the conclusion that there is no organisational scheme here. If the councils, the institutions, the centres are the advisory bodies of the Ministry and the Government, then why do these provisions, why the details of the provisions on how to correspondence centres with councils, councils with ministers, ministers with the government, etc. What are you trying to do with these centers and the institutions? What kind of institutions are you trying to do? You're introducing a conflict factor in something that needs to be unique. The government is enforcing the law. The government's acts are governed by the internal organization and all that. You're raising it to the level of legal norm. You're making institutions that will, rightly, tomorrow in each other's communications, be confrontational. You're the government. You're the founders of these centers. Do as you planned. Why are you driving us from hollow to empty? This election campaign will pass. It's gonna hit your head and this. The Radio-Difusion Council and the Lustration Commission, the law on one-time extra-profit tax and other innovations, have been broken down; and this is going to go down. There's no reform here, there's no shaking, there's nothing else. As we started talking about money, the former minister and the current minister got close, only two benches share it. Yeah, we hit the central issue, the central theme, something like a week ago in the congregation. You are withdrawing registration for Swedish aid, while a three-year USAID programme on computerisation and networking is being implemented through trade courts. Don't be surprised that this is the way the world looks at all of us: you're an unworthy representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from this proposed amendment of ours, you could have seen that we had a very good intention. At the very beginning, that you respected our amendments, that the permanent commissions at the National Council of Education accept people and that these people are rested working. What does that mean? This means that we have also thought about those people who have gathered the former government there and the former minister, as well as the current one, to find their place and employment if they are professional and competent for their work. So we thought they'd get a job that would guarantee their existence. That was the essence of our question. We know that all those people who work there are not guilty because by abolishing the institute, they might lose their jobs, and I believe that would be a small number, but we thought about the institution itself, seducing, it's a big ballast for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education. That's what happened in the end, and it'll show up at your place. We simply wanted to streamline our work with our proposal and responsibly solve major problems in the Ministry of Education, as well as in the Serbian Government. At the very beginning, you missed, and we warned you, and even when the National Council of Education was formed, we said that the proposings should do so within a certain time limit and propose more candidates, etc. No one has thought of it, no one has proposed to whom they should propose it, those members of the National Educational Council. We know they're appointed by the Assembly, but I'm asking you, who they're supposed to propose to, who's going to do the job. This law does not provide for that. I think the organisation of that job itself will be difficult. We have put forward a proposal to do so by the Education Committee, however, it is not yet respected and normally not in line with the concept of the law. So, at the very beginning, there will be problems with the formation of the National Educational Council, so it will go all the way to the restructuring of the institutions, i.e. to the regrouping of the current people working in these institutions, and the question is whether this job will be done in any way. You can see from this amendment that you should have accepted amendments to the SRS, because this would have solved problems in this legislative project, which you did not cover and which do not solve problems in education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4084	Instead of adopting amendments to the SRS by representatives of the ministry, the legislators of this law, and thus bringing the law into order, and making the law really reformable, this is how we are going to drag everything out and what turns out to be a law after the work of this assembly will not be applicable in practice. As much as you and your predecessors care about reforms both in society and in education, I will now tell you. I received a letter from a Belgrade high school professor today and this is what is said – knowledge is the health and database of every society's programme, because people are the most important resource; contrary to our society, education becomes a location for the development of the greatest social crime. While you in the Assembly are theoretically passing inapplicable laws, we professors and students are on the street in front of the Ministry of Education and Sports and are expressing protest over (this protest was two days ago) reform, whose only goal is to destroy national identity, gain the wealth of individuals, both in the past and so on. the new government. The current government has made a lot of promises, uses the same models to destroy knowledge, has no expert personnel and is not addressed to business problems. No reform can be implemented without previous reform, the position of professors in society. They are operatives and depend on their knowledge and material position to achieve results. Right now, all day long, the MPs of the SRS have been telling you that the first step that you must withdraw is to improve the material position of educators. The accepted foreign reform implies the departure of children from five years of age to school, and our children continue to start at seven years of age; reforms are persistently conducted by psychologists and educators, and there is no professional education anywhere, what about the other subjects; the level of knowledge is being reduced in high school, which should remain the centres of the country's intellectual potential; politicisation of schools, because schools are no longer a base of knowledge and education, but political polygons; directors become cruel execuators of their own party for persecuting professors; millions of euros and dinars pass through schools, money is being washed and targeted in political organisations, and teachers do not remain a dinar. Hoping to support the protest, etc.; the humiliated and punished professors of a Belgrade high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you're not tired, I would like to talk about article 7 and the amendment submitted by my colleague Zoran Krasic. In fact, it refers to a member of the 25th basic text of the law, and read and see that a very broad solution has been given here...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4087	Excuse me, you're talking about the next amendment, this is the amendment to Darko Glisic. Don't talk about the same amendment. You're a little early.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4088	I'm sorry, it's no big deal. I'll be back for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4089	Here's a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4090	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments to the members of the SRS, Mr Stevovic, Markovic and Glisic are very meaningful amendments, which define that the proposal is being seduced, as well as the centres, which are to be formed by this bill and that is why the commissions are being educated. What is the aim of the legislator? To form these delusions and to make so many centres, as well as other expert teams, unless there is one single reason, which is to bring together their party colleagues and comrades who will hire in these institutions, and that will only lead to a bulky apparatus that will impoverish the modest budget for the field of education and education. That fellow SRS MPs are right, it also document that Article 7 of the proposed law is in collegiate with Article 9 of the proposed law, where these areas are clearly defined and they are defined by points 1) to point 7), by simply having the word "house" in point 2) deleted, and all it is clear is that these are the obligations of the Ministry, and how the Ministry will organise, in which way, it is excessive and only additionally burdens the bill and budget proposal, whether it is 0.1% or 5% of the education budget. I think that these resources could be much smarter used, and one way to use these funds instead of forming these institutions and centres is to modernise education through the introduction of information and computer science in primary schools, as well as to buy certain funds for performing computer and IT subjects. I propose that the Assembly accept these amendments proposed by Members Stevovic, Markovic and Glisic because they represent a rationalisation of this bill proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is in line with the concept of the SRS and continues all of those amendments when it comes to red tape, and that one ministry is dragging behind it. So we asked that the members of the committees already provided for in Article 10(5) of this proposal be at work in these committees and that their working relationship from the companies from which they come rest while they are working in committees. The first and perhaps one of the most important reasons is that it will have absolute autonomy for working on the commission, that it will be able to devote its entire working time to this work, contribute to the quality of the commission's work. However, according to the concept of the SRS, the delusions are abolished, which, under the proposal of this law, may be even in Article 24. Proposal for amendments to the Act to hire special expert teams in the field of education and training or to engage scientific and research institutions, with the agreement of the Ministry in paragraph 1. In the position of the 2nd member of the expert team of the position of the 1st member, during the work of the expert team, the working relationship at the place from which he is absent rests. So the acceptance of this amendment, apart from the quality of the commission's work, also has that other effect, means that the bureaucracy that will monitor the ministry's work is shrinking by about two-thirds. From the previous discussion, which MP Gašo Knezevic held as a pay phone, a man claims he did not have the opportunity to create a seduction because of the transitional provisions of the law that he has passed, that he does not know how much it would cost you, that the new minister will have to answer that question. Well, if this job isn't done, if it's not done, it's too bad that someone's been admitted into a permanent working relationship, so by accepting this amendment, the working relationship stops, I suggest that the National Assembly accept this amendment. In the event that some of the institutions have already been established, people working in these institutions could move into these commissions to work and thus avoid the formation of expert teams, which would further burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Ministry of Education and there would be more free money to invest in the very quality of our schools' education. By doing so, we would better educate children, better quality, and let schools accept all the difficulties that life brings as an adult.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4093	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4094	Twenty-five members of the Bill's proposal the Proposer wants to arrange the work of councils and institutes and I will read it to see what it is. The Proposer suggests this: "The institutions are doing professional work in the preparation of acts which are within the authority of the council, i.e. the minister, upon receipt of a reasoned request from the Council, or Minister. The application referred to in Article 1 shall also contain a time limit for the preparation of the material. The Council, i.e. the Minister, is obliged to make a decision, i.e. within three months of the date of receipt of the materials of the Institute. If the term referred to in Article 2 does not exceed the time limit set out in Article 2, the Council, or the Minister, shall adopt acts in his jurisdiction, without professional processing of the Office. (So, the Institute has failed to fulfil its function, the minister can pass the office, because the Institute does not respect it, does not treat it. ) The Council shall adopt an act under its jurisdiction and upon delivery of a reasoned request by the Minister. The application referred to in Article 5(5) shall also contain a time limit for the adoption of acts. If the Council fails to adopt acts under its jurisdiction within the time limit set out in paragraphs 3 and 6 of this Article, the act shall be adopted by the Minister. The Council, i.e. the institutions, may submit an initiative to the Minister, or to the Government to resolve certain issues under their jurisdiction. "I don't remember that by 2001 in this country's legal system there was a similar provision on communication and the relationship between the authorities of the state administration, the ministry and its professional organisations, which should help. But, well, we're going back to that initial hill-wrestle, to do something, to make a scab, to show up as a reform of something that's been reformed. And, of course, the previous reformers on this article did not submit the amendment, because they agree with this, and as the ultimate effect of what was proposed is total confusion and block any reform. By the time they agree on the minister's route – the institute – council and vice versa, reforms pass, deadlines go by, everything goes by. The problem is, it's being built on as a solid norm in this law, and it can all be regulated by a sublegal act, and it shouldn't be. In order not to play these things, because education would have to be a serious area, we looked through the proposing's fingers, so within that concept that we represented, we gave a transitional solution, of course, again the importance of the ministry that is most responsible for the state of education and a little bit of regulation on their communication, but on the ministry's route – advice. Unsuitable for one law. There, we admit, inappropriately for one law, departing from practice, deviating from the legal system. The laws are carried out by the Government, exercised by the executive authority. You have here predicted that the council forms the National Assembly, that it chooses members of the council, the national as you have called it, is the advisory body that proposes professional matters to the ministry, which assumes responsibility and, as we see here, you have inserted the conflict factor on that relationship and, of course, you have returned not the initial one, that the Ministry must stand before and behind it all. That's the problem. You're dealing with an internal organisation, not with the essentials of education, not with those issues that are urgent, which should be resolved, which are educational programs, educational methodology, training of educators, because in electronics alone, in five years, complete knowledge is changing. Whoever graduated from electronic college ten years ago, practically, if he didn't educate himself in the meantime, he's electronically illiterate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4095	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4096	Ladies and gentlemen, these are two important things. It is a member of the 25th basic law, which has been amended and amended with this proposal, and refers to the work of the council and the institute. What we wanted with our amendment here is that in the spirit of this concept, we remove the delusions from this member, because by our concept, there is no seduction. But what is also important here, the proposer is in fact talking about communication between the ministry, councils and institutes. In the first position, he says – institutions perform professional tasks in the preparation of acts which are in the power of the council, i.e. the Minister, upon receipt of a reasoned request from the Council, or Minister. So, the institute is designed as a body that will assist the minister, the ministry or the council on these issues in the field of education. The request of the Minister or of the Council shall also include a time limit for the preparation of the material, that is, the second position. In the fourth position, it says – if it leads to the expiry of the deadline set out in Article 2, it does not prepare the necessary material, advice, or minister, to adopt acts from its jurisdiction, without professional processing of the office. So what's he seducing? Why is there a institute if the legislator leaves him the possibility, in law, that he may not do his job. What's the point of the institute? So, at the beginning, we assume that the Bureau doesn't have to do what the minister or council asks of him and therefore does not suffer any sanctions. Under this proposal suffering and sanctions, those sanctions are also submitted to Article 50. Proposal. To prove how pointless everything is, here's what it says in Article 50. The proposal - with a fine of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars - will be fined if it does not prepare the relevant material and deliver it to the minister, or to the council within a given time limit. The fine of 1,000 to 10,000 dinars will be fined by the director of the office. And, now, watch out, the government is forming an institution to help her work. The minister's asking the Bureau to prepare some material. The Bureau doesn't do the job, because the law allows him not to do it, and then the government punishes him with a fine of 10,000 dinars for not doing the job. It's pointless. And the government is on the budget, and the Bureau is on the budget, and now they're punishing each other, chasing each other over whether or not they should do the job. This still shows and proves how pointless this concept is and needs to be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4097	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4098	I apologize to the MPs and citizens who are monitoring the transfer of the Assembly because I am a little early in commenting on this amendment. The reason may also be that it is your desire to work until it is finished under this law, and it is done by what the MPs of the SRS do, commenting on their amendments, while your only obligation is to be you at all times 84. Here, according to the proposal to amend and supplement the Law, Article 7 refers to Article 25 of the basic law and the initial part of that article is, in the opinion of the SRS, completely unnecessary. This member is changing completely and is designed to be very clear. Thus, the Council shall adopt acts under its jurisdiction and upon delivery of a reasoned request by the Minister. It is thus said that the council has already adopted acts for which it is responsible, but is bound by this obligation, without those previous few views, to bring them in a reasoned request by the minister. The application referred to in Article 1 shall contain a time limit for the adoption of the act and, where it is consulted within three months, etc. He won't bring it, the act will be brought by the minister. So, this is desirable because history throughout the entire period of time has shown only cyclicity and acceleration, and you are witnessing that Serbia may be ahead of it. Because in virtually a year, we've been passing two laws, which are very important and concern a very important area, which is education and education, and so to rush and so quickly pass laws, means that it's desirable to make them flexible, completely clear, but not to go into their width. Because who knows if time will force us to change this law very quickly, and then we'll be in a situation that what was contained in several laws at the beginning of the last century, now we'll be making hundreds and thousands of laws for such areas of life, and maybe in ten years we'll be doing it 10 times more, and then you see what you'll get if the basic law isn't clear, it's not concise and if it contains a lot of extra. This Article 25. The proposal in which it writes - the work of councils and institutes, contains just a lot of surpluses, and that is why it is our desire to make it very concise. I'm obliged to say that the Ministry of Education might give up the establishment of these institutions and centres, despite those $10 million, because they're also aware that they're going to have to spend a lot more while it's being established, but the minister on the Education Committee said it was just an introduction and that it's a condition to get $500 million this year. Not help, of course, but credit. And how is it that no one informs this people's congregation, who owes us, with whose consent, and who will repay it? It's just, it's simple, it's just that some of the mins are coming, and when they defend the laws on individual committees here in the Assembly, they say, we're going to get a donation that big, and then when we do, we're going to get it, I don't know how much, it's an opportunity to take credit. They shouldn't be blackmailing us with donations, taking loans. In fact, all international credit institutions are looking forward to credit interested parties and will give us no problem at all, only ask for guarantees that they will return. And we can never provide guarantees unless we have a stable and rich society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4099	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8. The draft law provides for the removal of the title above Articles 26 and 26. The law. That member was regulated by the work of councils and centres. My amendment stipulates that Article 8 should be deleted. The bill also maintains a previous solution. This amendment is directly related to the amendment to Article 5. The bill, which represents the concept that, in addition to the National Educational Council, there is also a advice for professional education and a council for harmonising views. In the discussion so far, it is clear and reasoned why it is necessary for these two councils to exist, in addition to the national council. In the first place, to prevent centralised education and political manipulation of education. The existence of these two councils is needed in order to achieve the opportunity to systematically comply with the country's economic and economic development requirements. Otherwise, some of the staff we do not need would be educated again, and the influence of parents on the development of education would not exist. We are not against forming a National Educational Council, but we believe that there are all the reasons that there are two other councils. The amendments to this law essentially amends nearly one third of the laws, and the rule is that when there is a change in so many provisions of the law that a new law is passed. That's what I should have done. A new law was to be passed, which would precede a public debate rather than an emergency procedure, one of the most important laws is passed without even having an explanation of why the procedure is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4101	Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4102	First, I'd like to deny one of the lies that was heard here. DS - Boris Tadic did not submit 110 amendments, but a total of all parliamentary groups, all parties, submitted 130 amendments, and the DS submitted 45 amendments. All these amendments are made in one way. The idea behind all the amendments is -- the defence system that was established in 2003. Every solution that has been fixed by this system, because no one claims that the system that was set up in 2003 is the best, no one claims that we can't fix it, any intervention contained in this proposal, which went to the improvement of the system, of course we haven't changed. We have only appointed those members to whom a derogation or a deviation of the basic concept has been made. That's why it's proposed to delete that member here, because I have to tell you, you can't in any large system, not even a small one, ensure that the system works without a good organization. Get out of your political parties. There are both small and large. Each one of them has an organization. I know that in this country political parties are mostly based on leaders. The leadership is ruling in this country, but it won't be long, this system will be democratisationd. But despite the highly expressed leadership, you also need a municipal board, etc. It's the same with education, education is a huge system. There must be institutions, centres, whatever you want to call them. The name doesn't matter, it's contained, it's a function. That is why all of our amendments concerning the organisation were aimed at the preservation and development of the system. Where the proposal didn't seem to stand down and makes the system better, we didn't intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4103	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4104	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am pleased that Mr Gašo Knezevic said this about this speaker, because many MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia claim that the SRS and its MPs defend Gashi's law. So here it is now that the previous government has passed one law and that these amendments and additions and continuity of this law are just slightly different in the tens of details. On the contrary, the SRS is trying to drag one of these legal proposals into its programming framework and make it a success in this system. By amendment to Article 9, I asked that Article 27 of the law delete the word "leavings" after the word "institutions". The concept of reducing one excessively large bureaucratic apparatus that follows each of these legal proposals. So, according to the bill, the National Council is educated. The National Council under Article 18 shall educate the Institute and the Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education shall carry out professional tasks in the preparation of the rules laid down in the jurisdiction of the Council and the Ministry, as well as other tasks in accordance with the law, the instrument of establishment and the Statute. It goes on to say – the institution of the 1st member's position has organisational units, centres, and this center for strategic development, a centre for development of programs and textbooks, a centre for professional development of employees and a centre for professional and artistic education. The next position is that the institution referred to in Article 1 of this Article may have other organisational units in accordance with the Statute, which means that in this Article 3. The bill provides the possibility that this institution can also forge new centres that are not provided for by this law. To make things worse and to make bureaucracy work to get into all the pores of this law, it is that seducers can educate special expert teams in the field of education and education and engage scientific research institutions with the consent of the ministry. Item 2 – The member of the professional team from the position of the 1st member during the work on the expert team rests the working relationship at the job he is absent from, which means that people who are engaged in professional teams will be professionally employed in them. They'll receive a cash fee to work on these expert teams. Look at what that bureaucratic apparatus looks like. You have a national council that will form commissions, permanent or temporary, a national council that will form seductions, and that will seduce centres, and the centres will form expert teams. It is the concept of Gaša Knezevic, although slightly changed, in a different form, technically perhaps more sophisticated, but in principle the concept that the previous government had devised and which this government continued to endure with previous power. The position of the SRS is to form only two forms, apart from the Ministry of Education, which was the national council and commission, whether permanent, or temporary, and that commissions perform work and institutions and expert teams. We are sure that the quality of the work of these commissions would, if not better, be at least the same as the institution and the expert teams on the one hand, and on the other hand, the cost of the work of these commissions would be in relation to 1:3, or three times the costs of the commission's work than those of these institutions that you provided for in this law. I have already said in earlier discussions that I have nothing against, that we are a rich and developed society, that the Ministry is establishing all these institutions and that the only job the minister is to open new schools in Serbia, at least one day, but until that happens, we will have to make sure that we spend money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4105	Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4106	Mr. Arsic, I've never had or had a problem with the question of who my opponent is, and who my ally is, because I have no opponents or allies, the only idea is. What we represent as DS – Boris Tadic, is the idea of a change that began in 2003 in the part in which I agree with the new ministry. I'm not going to attack them. As I was on the board of education, ask the members, I was often on the side of your representatives in the election of directors, where you were simplifying the scheme of choices, because I know what a problem that is. Therefore, the idea behind all the amendments is the idea of development, raising the quality of education, and I ask that we understand each other that way. It'll make it so much easier for us. We'll avoid conflict, bribery, and bickering.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4107	Thank you. National MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4108	Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of education, at least at this point, there can be no revolution, there can be no revolutionary change, there must be no major and sudden change, because the economic situation in which Serbia is located does not allow such sudden and major changes. We need to go gradually, gradually, step by step, that some things that may not be good in the existing system are corrected and repaired. Article 9. The draft law concerns the department's jurisdiction. Here's how these powers are defined in this 9th term. In the field of education and education, the Ministry plans and monitors the development of education and education, oversees the work of institutions and institutions, plans, coordinates and organises programmes for permanent training of staff in institutions. It shall verify the results of the achievement of the prescribed objectives and tasks of education and education at the Republic level. It achieves international co-operation on the development plan for education and education systems, analysis and transfer of foreign experiences of European programmes and achievements, as well as on compliance activities with European education systems. He runs the education and education database. He keeps a register and permits for the work of teachers, educators and professional associates. If this is fully understood, there are no concrete real and most important functions here. It's a function of adopting curricula and programs and by who knows which path I'm undermining. The ministry is absolutely excluded from the process and the ministry has no obligation under this law to get acquainted with curricula and programmes. The curricula and programmes shall bring advice without the consent of the Ministry and the Ministry shall have no further authority over it. That's what the point is. He can't and can't keep the government out of it, or the Ministry. The minister is not responsible for the implementation of curricula and programmes, he is responsible for the complete process of education in Serbia, regardless of what other bodies exist. They are advisory, they are professional and should help prepare the acts, they should help develop the programme as high as possible, but the minister must end up behind all of it. This law puts the ministry aside and does some work that is not essential to education. Our amendment here is the result of previous amendments, which means the consequence of this concept that we represent. It is purely technical here that the word "institute" in the second point is deleted, that the Ministry is only overseeing the work of the institutions, because we do not know by our concept which we have imagined and which we have exposed here to you and to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4109	Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic's amendment is a fundamental amendment defining the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education. Otherwise, let me read the reasons for passing this law. It says - amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System have been approached with the aim of adapting the concept of the development of the entire system of education to the times and conditions in which this process can take place with us. This retains the tendencies that have been expressed in the existing law. So this is just one upgrade proposed by former Minister Gašo Knezevic. We can see the reason for not accepting the amendments submitted by Mr Arsic in an explanation the government submitted to Article 9. The bill regulates the ministry's jurisdiction, and then the last sentence says - this solution increases the ministry's role. The ministry is proposing a law that will increase its role. I suppose the Ministry has an obligation to age and enforce this law and there is no need for such a bill, especially through the proposal in Articles 6 and 7 of this law of the Institute, the centres, the professional teams, to multiply this apparatus which is already very bulky. I therefore propose to the National Assembly to accept this amendment by Mr Arsic, which will remove all the misunderstandings defined by Article 6 and Article 7 of the proposed law, and then the ministry would have the role, as well as the obligation to monitor, to control the implementation of everything that is going on in education and education. And there's no need for the ministry to transfer its jurisdiction to someone and ask by law for its solutions and its role to increase, but a set from the very description of the ministry's affairs to define. So I urge the National Assembly to accept Mr Arsic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4111	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4112	The senselessness of these changes stems from the very text not only of this member, but also of the previous members. Take what they suggested to change in article 17. Practically two institutions are formed, an act on the establishment of institutions is adopted by the Government, and rules on public services are applied, and then we have fun with the change of residence and the status change of the institutions, where the government decides, and the annual report, is funded from the budget, etc. Then, in the provision of Article 18, even organisational units are regulated for this institution to improve education and education. These are strategic development centres, development programs, textbooks, employee development, professional and artistic education, etc. Then we come to this Article 27 where we have submitted the amendment. Paragraph 1(2) states that the ministry is overseeing the work of institutions and institutions. This text is identical to the basic text of this law. We, of course, disagree with the concept, so we have submitted the amendment, because there are no such institutions in our concept, but I have deliberately read these provisions to you, for one simple reason why you can't see here what control it is. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? There can't be administrative surveillance if you look at what you've given as a job to institutions and centres. The work done by these two institutions and these centres is monitoring, security, promotion, carrying out developmental, advisory, investigative, and it's like you said to the Institute of Social Sciences. The state formed its own institute to look at the areas of education and it was much more correct that you did, because all these institutions and your centers are doing is a proposal for counselling. Of course, I have to remind you of what you wrote in article 25, that even what they're doing, the councils, the shelters and the centers don't commit the ministry. Communication between the ministry and these organisational forms, which are essentially beneath the ministry, always carries out that surveillance. It is both programming and political, there is absolutely no reason for administrative oversight, and for inspection even less. According to the system that there is something to be written to distinguish it from the previous one, and that is essentially nothing different, here is the bill and, of course, from the beginning we're talking about, there's a new government and the Democratic Party, that part of the Civil League of Serbia, Gasa is a little burned up because Svilanovic isn't here, so he can talk about the leaders as he just spoke. It doesn't make any difference, and you saw it yourself. The Democrats left the National Assembly and the Wolf remained a minister. There you are, you're all together, that's what you should say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4113	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4114	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another in a series of members of this law that deals exclusively with bureaucracy. We have already mentioned in a series of past amendments and here mentions the minister, the office, the councils, the centres, etc. So you're constantly dealing with internal bureaucracy and the redistribution of power among yourselves. The opinion of the people I represent and mine is that the Ministry should be involved in the education of children, meaning the education program, that children should not run away from physical education, which was never there. The multiplication tables don't even have to know anymore, I guess. I'm going to cut back on this amendment, since I wanted to comment that you should create a school program that will deal with the organization of basketball tournaments, football, volleyball, to figure out how to get your kids back into normal life and get them off the street. It's your job, not the establishment of an office, agency and other national councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4116	Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Arsic's amendment should be accepted, in part, and so that the ministry's competences, or the minister's principle of action, should not be doubted, even this way. Indeed, we are all still under the impression of what the minister said ten minutes ago, speaking of the composition of the council. I don't think the well-intentioned minister who thus assessed the University of Kragujevac, a higher education institution, was created by law and formerly, and much earlier than hers. I cannot agree that Belgrade's tutorship is crucial in the survival of the University of Kragujevac. I'm a professor of one of those colleges, and I'm not sure that more than half the staff, on the contrary, only a few teachers help us carry out our duties, for those institute objects that an institution like ours can't develop. Therefore, points 5) and 6) in this article, which are to be implemented, should guarantee objectivity in the setting of the minister according to current problems. What does that minister's hint mean? Isn't the university competent, if some colleges and university composition aren't enough, is that a hint of something future? It is a very difficult statement that so many Belgrade professors, Belgrade is above all. Is that some new centralisation of Serbia? That's what Belgrade is like. We all ended up here until we created our own universities. This is not how five members of Belgrade's universities and 0.5 of the Kragujevac University are treated in a quantitative sense, and it is not mentioned in Pristina, so that by working through this point, where a lot of personal expressions in the work of the Ministry and the Minister, it is necessary to find any member and limit the possibility of executing what she is here in response to our MP, possibly unconsciously, designed. I don't think that's her attitude. Even Mr. Gašo Knezevic did not have that attitude, bringing out a much more rigid and crueler law. I advocate that if the Minister hears this, she will give us more precise clarifications about her visared and the status of the University of Kragujevac, and why he stands by, and also in Pristina, if he is extraordinary, moved here or there, but there is still the University of Pristina. Therefore, as far as the Ministry's jurisdiction is concerned, I ask the Minister to make a statement, let's see what she wanted to say to that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4117	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. You're withdrawing the amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was tabled by MP Vladimir Jovanovic, the Committee for Education and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vladimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4118	Dear President, Members of Parliament, I must confess that I really wanted to participate in this debate, for the simple reason that I support an existing rule of law solution. I say that as a parent of a future student. The amendment I have submitted is the logical consequence of the overall concept of the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic parliamentary group and the logical consequence of the amendment to Article 5 of the law submitted by my fellow MP from the parliamentary club. What is the core of the amendment that I have submitted is that points 3 and 4 are deleted from Article 9) and 4 are deleted from Article 9. For the sake of reminding me, I will read these points, and concerning the responsibilities of the Ministry of Education: 3) "planned, coordinated and organised programmes for permanent professional training of staff in institutions; 4) "confirm the results of achieving the prescribed objectives and tasks of education at the republican level. "We see here, compared to the existing solution, that two new types of jobs have been assigned to the ministry. The key question is, can the Ministry do these jobs? These jobs are of an extremely professional nature, which do not allow arbitration and must not allow themselves to be detached. Can a rigid administration, such as the Ministry of Education, do these jobs? We don't think so. In addition, these jobs are also assigned to the new bill. The key question is why they're being assigned to the Bureau, why there's a duplication going on, because we know that any duplication costs. How much will it cost the citizens of this country, or taxpayers? It also points to this conclusion: it's money or it's just the assignment of these jobs to an institution that's just a farce. So it's off-limits for the Bureau to do these jobs. Also, a very important situation is that in the existing law, Article 27(2) says the ministry is looking after the provision of funds to institutions for specific development programmes and controls their use. Article 27 of the existing law excludes this point in the new proposal. Of course, the question is logically raised, the question goes to Ms. Minister, do development programs at all, or does the Ministry run away from responsibility?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4119	Anyone else want a word? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4120	In a desire to find hot water, the promoter often used Resava technique. This resuscitation technique was inaccurate, and then the individual functions and responsibilities of individual authorities were completely mixed, so that, although there is a need for a particular job, the job was put into the jurisdiction of a body that essentially does not carry the job. It's done in a few places. This example of a member of the ministry's 27th jurisdiction is an example, because the ministry's jurisdiction includes things that by their nature shouldn't be in the ministry's jurisdiction. There were other things. For example, the graduation program is within the competence of strategic development, and the graduation program should be in the jurisdiction of the centre that measures, therefore, the evaluation centre, because it measures, and makes the tests that will be measured tomorrow, the others will conduct the test, or the prom exam. The teachers are valued by the office, but not by the supervision. We have two kinds of surveillance. There's no difference in taking away from the surveillance function and transferring it to a new body and I don't mind whatever it's called. Finally, standards are prescribed by the Ministry of Education and Sports, not the Centre for Evaluation. These are all illogicalities in how the system is conceived, and then one jurisdiction is transferred from one organ to another organ sphere. That's the problem with Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4121	Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4122	Article 9. The bill refers to the Ministry of Education's jurisdiction and we are actually back in the past with this member, and that's no less than in the period of national ethics. It is this member who is centralising the Ministry of Education, completely contrary to European standards declaring the decentralisation of authorities. This centralisation is seen in two very important development functions, which is the professional improvement and verification of the results of education. This member of the law, which regulates the responsibility of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, opens up the possibility of a re-politicalisation of the education and education system, which we managed to overcome in the previous period. On the other hand, this Article 9. The bill shows an absolute lack of understanding of the ministry's role as a driver of development, and this tells the fact that the ministry no longer has the authority to provide funds, but agrees to be a free beneficiary of the budget. I think it's harmful and it's necessary for the Ministry of Education to be a driver in this domain. I would like to say, the argument, or the report that we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was made by the MPs, although we received two to three hours ago, which is one of the least said, the saddest reports I have seen in this National Assembly, because in almost 99% of the cases, the reasons for the amendments are in one single sentence, which reads: the amendment is not accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the bill. I think that even in this way the dignity of the National Assembly is being destroyed, the MPs are being ignored, and, saddestly enough, it would all be good if this law really had a concept, then there would be some understanding of such an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4123	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4124	Ladies and gentlemen, we have received the Government's opinion on this amendment, where we have suggested that attitude one be deleted because it is the same as it was in the old law, that it removes ambiguity. I will read you an old attitude and a new attitude, and you will see whether it removes uncertainty and how different they are. He says: "The institution can perform another work that is in the function of education and education (hereinafter: expanded work), provided that students are engaged in practical training and that the work of teachers does not interfere with the achievement of the work of education and education. "It was an old text. The new text is as follows: "The institution can perform another work that is in the function of education and education (hereinafter: expanded activity) – the exact same text – provided that it does not interfere with the performance of education and education. Students can only be engaged in practical teaching, and teachers can not interfere with the achievement of educational-experienced work. "There is absolutely no difference here in words, nor in the sentence box, only in terms of words within the same sentence, and in essence there is no point. So, it's a little offensive that in this way the amendments on the one hand are rejected, and on the other hand it puts mistrust in the law itself and in the proprietor, because if one member's attitude changes in this way, so completely unnecessary, then one wonders what it looks like in everything else and how superficial it is, that is, how this law changed. It could have been talked about the essence and the essence of this article was not even touched, it refers to the old law, and the old law could have been corrected. Thus, in paragraph 2 it is said that the extended activity of an institution, so some schools, can be the provision of services, production and sales, provided that no quality teaching process is disrupted. We know that there are some institutions that have commercialized their work, which in conditions, the truth of a weak personal income teacher, improve teacher's income and maybe contribute something to the budget, but it can't be without constant control that isn't actually foreseen here. It is possible to perform some manufacturing work, to provide some services in some specialised institutions, but as soon as this is about sales, it is a matter that is not compatible with neither education nor education. We sent children there to study school, not to work, to sell something and to deal with trade, and that's purely commercialization, and that thing had to, that's the point, to pay attention and to ensure control, if it's allowed by the Ministry. Not only is it said in principle, in this article that the Ministry is overseeing the institutions. What kind of surveillance? This requires constant supervision and this is needed in Article 4. to explain and to touch the essence of this problem. As we can see, only a change in the sentence order has been done, and that's what the people say -- the living Todor, that seems to be a speech, but we haven't received any new quality, and that's why I think this amendment should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4125	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4126	Madam Chairman, dear Minister, fellow Members, supporting what has been said by the predecessors, I will give a broader explanation. The idea behind Article 36 of the basic law of 2003 is the idea to enable, in some way, secondary vocational schools that have workshops or agricultural schools in their composition, which have the means to raise the level of standards of staff, but also the level of standards of teaching, i.e. training, in their own composition. That's why this possibility is open. We had one basic problem. That's the problem we tried to solve through the position of the fourth member. He was referring to the work of children. So, the problem is that sometimes it's about minors, it's about students whose work is used in some way for these purposes that have additional educational significance, but also commercial importance, and there's my colleague's predecessor right, because selling is an ugly word when it's tied to school, but something needs to be done sometimes and to live. We tried to solve the idea in attitude four as far as we could. My proposal was also an idea to further develop the position of 4 - protection of individuals. So, the protection of the students, but since the teacher is at the heart of the reform, of course the proposer wasn't protecting the student. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4127	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4128	Dear People's MPs, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DS MP Anita Beretic, has tabled an amendment regarding Article 11. It is a change of Article 41, or a change in the manner of approval. The two positions of Article 41 read as follows: "A second organisation, i.e. a natural person, can carry out pre-school education and education activities, and to carry out accredited specific programmes of pre-school education and education, vocational training and training, if it meets the prescribed standards for the setting up of specific programmes and obtains the approval of the Ministry. The standards referred to in Article 1(1) and the standards of knowledge, skills and competences for accreditation of training and training programmes shall be prescribed by the Minister. "What's the problem here? The problem is that the accreditation procedure has been lifted, the ministry's exclusive approval has been returned. This is another good example of centralization that this law adopts, this is a good example of deprofessionalization passed by this law, and it would be very good to know how corruption will be prevented, and these approvals by the Ministry are also a great deal of profit, and a great temptation. You have recently been very proud of the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and now, in the first concrete law, or amendments to the Law on Fundamental Education, you put before the great temptation of the Ministry, to which the amendment of this member may be a major source of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4129	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4130	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as well as the previous amendments to the SRS and this one is proposed in the best interest. We had a big discussion and a dilemma on the Committee of Education on Amendments, and most MPs were about to adopt this amendment, but the representatives of the Government simply told us – what G17 plus would say. Namely, what it's about. We all swear here to some decentralisation, all of us here are talking about how to decentralize, how responsibility needs to be taken down, and handed over to someone else. Is it decentralisation if we allow the founder to have no right over the institutions, but simply to leave it to local self-government. Local self-government is the same organ, a centralised body, which will further centralise the governance authorities in institutions. Here it is thought, first of all, of preschools and schools. Namely, the amendment submitted by MP Radovanovic simply gives authority to the founder to give consent. You know, this committee will continue to be formed by staff representatives, i.e. from the teaching council, representatives who work in schools, which are three members, then parents' councils -- three members and also three members who are proposed by local self-government. This way, the founder only gives consent. You know the problems that arise when the school boards are formed. You know as well as I do that in the field, educational workers are also divided into certain currents, whether political or general, those who are right or wrong. And normally, local self-government always has its own representatives who represent the government in that space. So that's where the problems are always created who will actually be a member of the school board and how the appointment of directors will be proposed. And to mention, you know that the school board's ingenuities are also in that it gives consent to the school program. If the ministry has no influence here, or founder, the Serbian government has no influence on the governing body at all, what will happen across cities across Serbia, especially where the multinational composition of the population is. These programmes may be contrary to both the National Council and the Ministry of Education. So they just don't have any intelligence. We just wanted to give this the possibility that the founder gives consent. If the founder is a local self-government, she has the authority to give consent to the managing authority. If he is the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia should have the authority to give consent to the authorities. In any case, there will be chaos in education, as it is now. There will be complaints and complaints on many issues, especially about the selection of organs, i.e. the selection of school directors. So we had the best intention and our intention was rejected, I say, with an excuse for decentralisation. I think that in this case the promoter is wrong and that this amendment should be adopted, because this would solve many problems in education and education, i.e. in the school and preschool networks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4131	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4132	Every school rests on five pillars. One pillar, first, are programs, second – teachers, teachers, third – textbooks, fourth – management, fifth – funding. One of those pillars is control. Management assumes in the current conditions mostly two bodies: one is the school board, and the other is the director. The DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group has not put any amendments to this text. So, on the text of the law in this section, we haven't put any amendments. Not because we're sick of these questions, but because I think these five pillars that make school might be the least important. Unlike us, I expected and probably won, because I have no insight into all the amendments, a lot of amendments by the SPS. I don't know, we'll see later in the conversation how many amendments they'll make, but it's probably due to a relapse of the past, or a habit of having school directors. And, on their part, we had a tremendous amount of pressure during the term of office with regard to the director. Of course, there was a lot of interest in the directorial posts and places in the governing bodies. My message to the directors is that the coefficient that distinguishes them from ordinary teachers, so the pay increase coefficient, relatively small, and in the talks with the unions, we were on the best track to increase it. We had the funds provided in that draft budget, which never became a proposal made by Boza Djelic. That's where we'd be able to push the directors a little bit. From this place, I can only thank the people who sacrifice themselves to be directors, even if they have some political omens. I join the view that if it is necessary for someone to be an expert, politics cannot eliminate it. From the professional circles politics can't eliminate anyone, because then it eliminates us, general practice experts, and we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4133	The word has been made by MP Tihomir Đuricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4134	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and in accordance with Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, explaining the amendment to Article 12. In Article 12(2), after the words "self-government", the words "with the consent of the founders" are added. The members of the institution’s management body shall appoint and dismiss the local self-government units, with the consent of the founders. The founder cannot leave the decision to anyone, because abuse can occur, especially in multinational environments, where, under the draft law, management bodies can make decisions that are not in line with the plan and programme of primary and secondary education. It is logical that the founder gives consent to the appointment of members of the management body, given that the institution is to the greatest extent financed by the work of the institution. However, the amendment was rejected because it did not comply with the concept of the bill. It remains unclear how the control of any governing body may be contrary to any concept of the proposal of any law. I'm sorry this well-intentioned suggestion didn't come up with your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4135	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4136	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 12. The draft law refers to the composition and appointment of the managing authority. This member did not essentially change the existing member of the 53rd basic law. He added something small and insignificant, and that's not essential. This Article 53 of the existing law defined that the institution management body is a school board, which has nine members. They are appointed by the local self-government unit assembly in the following way - three members are members of the staff, three are from the parents' order and three are representatives of the local self-government community. We intervened here with two amendments, one of which was adopted, and it was purely technical. In the third position of the proposal, it was said that the institution management body comprises three prominent representatives of employees, parents and units of local self-government. We've modified this -- "outstanding" deleted. The government has accepted that, and that's fine, because it is unclear who it is and what it is -- a prominent representative, and especially if it is chosen by a secret vote at a teacher's council session and a parent's council. Our second amendment refers to item 2. The proposal, which says members of the institution's management body are appointed and resolved by the local self-government unit assembly. The president is elected by a majority of the total number of members of the management body. We ask, quite seriously, that after the word "self-government" the words "with the consent of the founder". This stance would read: "The members of the institution's management body appoints and resolves the local self-government unit assembly, with the consent of the founders". Why does this matter? The founder of every institution in this area, every school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia through the executive government, means the government, the Ministry of Education and Sports, manages the work of its institutions, controls the work. It protects its rights as the founder's rights through its organs. It is not clear why this founder - the Republic, or Government, has no insight, has no knowledge of who manages the school in some territory of a municipality. Or more specifically, the government entrusted the job of managing the school board or the school board. So he's entrusting this job to an organ that's elected to the community council. But it's not acceptable that the government doesn't know who the job was entrusted to. The government needs to know the names of these people. That he knows what kind of people they are. Whether in a good, adequate way it will protect the interests of the founder, means the Republic, in a concrete institution. We believe that this amendment can be accepted, that it should be accepted. It does not stand for what Mrs. Colic said on the board, that we will have the OSCE behind our necks, and some other international organisations if we accept it. This isn't centralization. Well, nowhere in the world, no one will let anyone else manage his property without any consent or control. And if he trusts the management, he wants to know who's running his property. I think that you should all think carefully about this, that this amendment should be adopted, to protect the interest of founders - the Republic of Serbia, in the management of primary, secondary schools and kindergartens, i.e. the property available to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4137	The word is Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4138	Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned sports and physical culture in my presentation this morning. In fact, Mr. Knezevic himself once, when we discussed the ministries, said the following - I was for the education of the mother and for the sport of the stepmother. On this occasion, I would ask the ministry gentlemen to, in Article 12, where the school board is mentioned, consider the students in elementary school. the talents above all, without just mentioning the talent centers, that is to say, having regard to the talented children who are very poor and can really not separate 30 euros, how much their sports activities cost per month, and to put a few sentences into this proposal, i.e. financing talents in sport. I'd like to tell you a little bit of good news. We beat Croatia's young team, i.e. our young team beat Croatia with score 3:2 Nevertheless, gentlemen, Croatia has the Ministry of Sports and we don't have it. [[Applause]] We continue to record great results, and thanks to our talented nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4139	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll tell you why it would be good for you to accept this amendment. The law also provides for the possibility of establishing private schools. Imagine someone who started a school where students go to and eventually the local self-government unit appoints management bodies without his consent and without his knowledge. Do you think anyone will accept that? That's impossible. It is the same when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. If she is the founder of the highest number of school institutions, why does the Ministry exclude itself from being able in one way to agree on the appointment of the managing authority. You'll have big problems if you don't adopt this. Local environments, regardless of their tendency to often, in principle, family or other relationships, name management bodies, though when they know that consent to that appointment will be given by the minister, it is a much more serious job. This way when they know that they're left with it, to manage other people's resources, to manage institutions whose founder is someone else's, then someone else more casually will get into the process and we'll get a mess when it comes to the choice of the school management body. So it would be good if you had already accepted, and in the earlier proposal there was a unique amendment to Article 12, which includes Article 53, to delete the word highlighted, because we have shown you that it is impossible to define criteria that qualify someone as a prominent person in the field he deals with, then it would be good to accept this as well. Because there is nothing more logical and there is no need for the minister to worry that he will have any organization behind him, because if the goal is decentralisation, I don't understand why decentralisation isn't being conducted in all ministries. And how it is possible for the finance ministry to have full centralisation in Serbia, to control all flows of money, to control all the banks established in Serbia, in a way that is very centralised, and that in this area, in education and education, which really has to be controlled, whether or not someone likes it, which should be centralised, the ministry that is responsible for implementing the education and education process does not know at all times how this process works at all levels. Why are you shutting yourself down and why don't you make it clear that it's not a sin to have a centralised way of managing. On the contrary, it is desirable that we have a uniform way and a uniform system in the territory of the entire Republic when it comes to education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4141	Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4142	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the MPs of the SRS and the citizens of Serbia would be particularly pleased that Ms. Minister has accepted this amendment, from a simple point of view, that during the 2000 local elections, in a general euphoria, in the authorities of local self-government, many unquality people have gotten through and today they are in a situation to decide on very important issues related to youth education. For this reason, we asked for an amendment to add the words "with the consent of the founder" in the post 2nd post of "self-government" and in paragraph 3. "extended" to erase. I think this would give a completely different picture tomorrow when the council is elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4143	Thank you to the MP Markovic. Here you go. National MP Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4144	The MPs, Madam Minister, as regards Article 12 of the proposed law, I believe that this member should suffer changes, and all in the sense of amendments to this article submitted by the MPs of the SRS. If nothing else, what you should know is that there is no local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of how it works in other municipalities in Serbia. It means that there are coordinators, and the coordinator, I believe you'll agree with me, is not the same as the local self-government council. Because it's in Article 12. Proposal for a law – if the authorising officer fails to comply with the law within a given time limit, the local self-government unit assembly will appoint members of the managing authority without the proposal of authorised proposings. What do I mean? Since local self-government is not working, we will have the possibility that the teacher council will propose three members, that the parent's advice will propose three members, and the coordinator has no authority that has the local self-government assembly. You know that no municipal council was formed there, as a temporary body, when temporary measures were introduced, and the intentions and intensities of this law, besides the Republic of Serbia itself, were to conduct the education process uniformly in the entire territory of Serbia, i.e. in those places where they work and in the areas where Serbian schools work. That is why it is necessary to adopt the SRS amendment, that the Ministry of Education, as founder of schools, because it is also the founder of schools in both Kosovo and Metohija, gives consent to the appointment of proposed members of the school board by authorised proposings. Otherwise, there will be a situation that schools will never be able to form school boards when it comes to schools in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4145	Anyone else want a word? The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4146	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my predecessors have explained this amendment, where the SRS is asking the founder to give consent to members of the school boards. I'm surprised that the proposer of this law insists on, in a certain way, avoiding it. Most schools in the Republic of Serbia are owned by the state, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it has been entrusted with the choice of members of the school boards by a unit of local self-government. All of this would be nice if units of local self-government, which are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, were subject to the Law on Local Self-Government, and it is often the case that the law is being violated, and even more often it is the case that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. The question arises as to how such local self-governments, which have, on all grounds, come under conditions for disbanding and introducing temporary measures, will name members of school boards, and do not adhere to the law, do not adhere to the Constitution, so you expect them to do quality work for the benefit of the citizens and students who go to that school, and to represent the interests of the school board members. I have no confidence in such a system of evaluation and decisions that such a unit of local self-government can make. That's why the SRS asked for such a decision, when taken, to give consent and founder. The question arises what about private schools, since the alleged being, as various legislators of education and education systems have explained, private schools. Who's going to set up the school board and who's going to decide on that school board if that school is private? Whether this procedure will be respected, means three parents, three members of the local self-government body and three members of the collectives working in that school, and what kind of founder's rights will be, means the private person who founded that school. In the government-sharing system, especially when it comes to state administration, certain businesses can be entrusted to local self-government authorities. It is programically okay, in the sense that this leads to the strengthening of local self-government and decentralisation of government, which is the programme's definition of the SRS, but only when the state and state institutions are so strong that the local self-government authority must not violate the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, only then have the conditions acquired. Still schools, where the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia, is paid by the Ministry of Education, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so it is perfectly normal for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministry to have insight and give consent to who is a member of the school board for all schools. There is another problem behind this funding, because if we think that we trust certain jobs to municipalities to do, we have to provide them with original incomes which, given our Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, is completely impossible, so you come into a conflict between the existing laws at different levels and I think that this amendment should therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4147	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic and Marko Krstin. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, these MPs withdrew this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. National MP Slobodan Zivkucin withdrew this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4148	I would be happy to have someone here listen to me, not to be listened to by the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens cannot change their amendments. The amendments are being changed by the MPs. But this has turned into an evening place, and it looks like we'll have a dance by dawn. Everything contained in this amendment is also spoken in the previous amendment. It's about the appointment in the previous one, and now it's about the resolution of the managing authority. I would agree, and that's the only case where I agree with her, with Mrs. Natasa Micic when she says she's not satisfied with the explanation, so neither am I. The explanation is - the amendment is not accepted because the decision in the bill completes the reasons for the resolution of the managing authority. There's nothing concrete about it. It's just the answer for the answer. Mr. Gašo Knezevic just said there are five pillars. Of those five pillars, one is this organ of governance, but that pillar has nine small pillars that make it as a whole, and that's that three plus three plus three. That's exactly what we're talking about, because the Founder is the Republic and should give consent to these, figuratively I'll say, stairs, because they're not stairs anymore. The last pillar, which you said was the director, depends exactly on these steps. They can change it and it has often happened not to respect their will, and the minister ultimately decides. Then we ask ourselves why, what will that managing authority do if it is made by those who do not respect the ministry, because the ministry probably goes along a party and party line, selecting the director they want. If you don't accept the previous amendment, then I'm speaking needlessly here, because in the previous one it's named, and here it's being resolved. That's why I suggest you accept the previous ones and this one, because they're almost the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4149	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4150	Mr. Chairman, it's a replica. It is true that the tripartite composition of the governing body, that they have a lot of importance in the selection of directors and that we tried in a solution that was promoted in 2003 to leave the role of minister in this process of appointment of directors, but in some way to minimise it. This is due to the fact that schools largely belong to local communities. Especially when it comes to elementary schools, so schools where the youngest children and local communities feel like their own. They also feel them because they support them. In fact, school maintenance is going from the local budget, not the central budget. That's why the idea was for the local community to give certain representatives of the governing body. We thought you had to make a balance. The balance was found at three, three, three. Other interested, except for the local community, is a teacher's chamber. These are the three representatives of the staff, and the third – parents. Especially in primary and secondary schools, parents should have great importance as part of these school boards. I know there are different ideas, that unions represent the idea of dominant members of collectives, where they would like to have a majority. So, the idea of the union is that the school board has a collective, so that five teachers will be on the school board. On the other hand, the same claim is made by the local community. Only parents, who are least protected and usually serve as one or the other of these clans, have no claim whatsoever. The goal and the idea was to raise the importance of this function, to feel really like members of a management body in another non-school company, is not an institution, therefore, serving education, and then to have awareness that they have something to say. In this situation, we are currently in a position for local community politicians or teachers through parents to achieve their goal. That's why I say it's very important, I think, that the balance remains. And I hear he now has an idea of four or two or three, and that's one of the ideas where four would have a collective. That idea may still be saving from a complete imbalance, because it does not give the collective domination. He's not giving him a fifth member, but I think he's still pulling water one way and that's why he's not the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4151	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4152	Mr. Knezevic said well that the school board is a political body. It is chosen by politicians at the local level and as a rule is always made up of people who are politically engaged, and these are certainly those three members who are delegated by local self-government, and through their parents, they are the prerogatives of the school board. The school board is a management body. He performs the tasks entrusted to him by the founder, which is the Republic, or Government. He manages the school because it was the government of the Republic of Serbia that enabled him to do the job on its behalf. I therefore return to the previous amendment, that it is necessary for the founder, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry, knows who manages some school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment, which I have submitted to Article 13, concerns the resolution of the managing authority. We are asking here to ensure the consent of the Ministry, the founder, or one of the members of that body, in the resolution of the managing authority. So, just like, according to our concept, the appointment of a management body requires consent, and so does the resolution of any member or complete body, needs the consent of the founder. The logical thing is, it's not that centralised, it's just that whoever's the founder has to know who this management business trusts. In this Article 13, the last attitude is just saying how illogical this whole concept is. It says, when irregularities are identified in the process of appointing, i.e. the resolution of the urinal authority, the local self-government unit assembly is required to immediately initiate the procedure for reviewing the appointing act. Be careful when there are irregularities. Who determines irregularities, who will determine them, how to determine them, who is responsible for establishing irregularities in the process of designation or resolution of the managing authority? It does not say who the authority or individual is to check whether it is respected in the procedure of appointment or resolution, and then stands – when they are established. I can't fall out of the sky, someone has to control it, which is the Ministry, or the Minister, who, through that consent institute, will check that everything is done in accordance with the law and agree or disagree with it. I'm asking the minister, who's playing with a cell phone, to pay attention and think about this, and we can still intervene here and fix this proposal significantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4153	Is there any more reported about this amendment? There isn't. Thank you. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. This amendment has been withdrawn. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin. The MP also withdrew the amendment. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an amendment to Article 15. Proposal, but a member of the 58th Basic Law. I just want to remind you that what we've been saying about the founders and the appointment of the managing authority is directly related to this amendment sent by the SRS. In fact, it's a very important and important matter, it's an important and important member, who, as he's imagined, is not good. If this member were to be adopted as planned, we would oblige all directors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to pass a directoral exam in addition to licensing and licensing. This is something new for the directors, which was provided for earlier and shut down in that law in another way, and what is now foreseen that directors have to pass the executive exam is really something that no one will accept in this country. Let's remember, sometimes, during the communists, we had education and human education, so it was in Kumrovec, and then in Kruševec, etc. So they could only be directors of similar people, similar personalities, who were educated in these centers at the time. This doesn't look like anything else to me. It looks like that time. What does a director's exam mean? The law provides for this directorial exam to be resolved – its scope, quality – by sublegal acts, and that each director must pass the executive exam within a certain period, and those who have been appointed so far, as well as those who have been appointed. We've heard here that our directors don't know English, they don't know they're working on a computer, so I don't know if it's some future director, a gym teacher, or a DIF, I don't know how we're going to educate him, or, for example. If it's a ballet school, and maybe it's not a player, or maybe it's a music school, so man doesn't know all the instruments, we'd be teaching people at all these levels, and that would be prescribed by a special sublegal act. It is something that is certainly not accessible to our future directors, at all, employees in the process of education and education without talking about the license. A license is something that can be sold, earned, owed, licensed is something that is not defined and related to education and education. If the law provides for each trainee, teacher, within a year and two to pass a professional exam, is that not a closer concept and closer to a pedagogical worker's expertise. So this is about something that's probably going to be accepted at all, but I'm counting on this not being implemented in practice. What do we do there with future directors who want to be directors or who will be proposed by the school board, and who don't have the money to pay for the executive exam? This is where the director's exam is scheduled to be paid by an interested person. So if there's no money, regardless of his qualities and abilities, he can't be the director. It's something that's absurd. As with the previous amendments, I believe that this amendment of the SRS must have been accepted, as it would have been averted from doubt and some of the ballast in education that we certainly do not need. If this is accepted, we will have some centres that will be influenced by Western mentors, meaning some Western sponsors, organise a directoral exam. I appeal to you for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4155	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4156	In the sea of absurdities, we also had a proposal to change Article 58, and the new government invented an exam for the director. What'd they come up with the director's exam for? You see, and beyond the Constitution and the law, they have introduced a provision to bring closer conditions for the selection of directors by the minister. Conditions for establishing a working relationship and conditions that are necessary for someone to be elected must be prescribed by law, cannot by sublegal law. A sublegal act, possibly, could prescribe some of the elements of the expert exam, but conditions for choosing and establishing a working relationship must only be laid down by law. This earlier position of this member that you are changing simply cannot be in the legal order; but, well, we're used to it. Why a special exam for the director if it is given that schools exist not only in Belgrade and Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, they exist in the Shop, there are rural schools, and we have problems in education which are held by people from mathematics who have not graduated from college, so it is a similar situation with English language classes. In particular, it is a problem in smaller places, and now some conditions are being nailed, among these conditions a exam for the director is being passed. If we're going in any way, it's probably true that one teacher can do more damage than the colonel. It is probably necessary to pay particular attention to the education of educators, in terms of accepting some new knowledge and new achievements, but then I rightly ask why there is no exam for the director of an institute, why there is no one for the minister; have him pass the exam and be a minister. We've had experts from the corner for three years, no day of work, no one's ever asked them for exams, no license, it took Dad to pay for a degree at one of the private universities, a kid got a degree, knows he's working on a computer, knows how to make those muffins and those buns, and he's an expert. Where's your internship? He's gone. Where'd you learn that? Nowhere. Who made you an expert? New power. Let's remember, on October 5th, you did a lustration in schools, deleted directors, so they came to the director's target, even people who didn't compete, and even people who had been kicked out of school for crime years before that, you probably want to clean up in your ranks, so you're introducing as a new condition that someone passed the exam for the director. Totally unnecessary, pointless. If this is what you're trying to prove that the candidates for directors have mastered school management, let's introduce police management, military management, management of everything and everything. Let's tighten the conditions, because we're just talking about it, look at the wonders, in that rivalry of yours, which the student or the teacher took advantage of, he got the advantage directly. Now, respected citizens, as reformed, which has never taken effect, and this will not come into effect, you know, and you yourself, soon all of this will be completely different, then probably someone else will commit themselves to real problems in education, not who will put who in the right place and the directors will be victims of changing local government. Think about it, if the principal is to be someone who runs the school, that it's to be a man who's going to run the school a little longer and seduce some order, by all those points that you've noticed very well that they're controversial in our education. Don't distract the directors or the educators or the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4157	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4158	Ladies and gentlemen, this member of the 58th basic text or Article 15. The proposal is problematic. This is where the term "licence" first appears. The only conditions the school director has to have are the license. To get it, he has to pass the license exam. However, this is a necessary condition or one of the necessary conditions, but in order to be a director, there must really be other conditions, but there must be an exam for the director. That's the second problem of this member. We have a problem in practice, and I was saying that in the principle debate, which few people in education define to apply for director, so we have a very small selection of quality people who would take over school management. If we take into account that the receipts are low, that the responsibility is great, that the job is all day long, because the director can't come in in three hours, so he goes home, he has to be there from the start to the end of the class, so if the school has a workshop, and the workshop works in the morning, teaching in the afternoon, he has to be present all day at school. So we have a low-end reward problem. On the other hand, we have a problem passing a new exam for the director and on the third hand we have a problem which and the costs of that new exam must be borne by whoever is running for director, who is going to run for office. So, man, regardless of whether he'll ever be a director, if he has only ambition like that, the desire to become a director sometimes, he has to pass that exam, to sacrifice and learn, and to go to bed, and to finance it all, and then no one guarantees him that he'll be a real director, compete, and politics decides otherwise, is not like, one mandate, another, third, and that's how it stretches. What else is so controversial about this place? They are controversial, which is defined by Article 63 of the existing law, which did not reach these amendments and additions, the rights of directors at the end of office. The existing law does not guarantee the director a job when his term is up. The position of the 1st member of the 63rd shall be read by the Director of the institution to whom the term of office has ceased due to the expiry of the term of office or at the personal request shall be assigned to a post corresponding to the degree and type of education of the institution. So it's not going back to the place he left, it's going back to a place that fits the level and type of education. If there is no job opening in the same institution or another institution, there is a greater possibility of changing the facility, remains unscheduled and is entitled to pay in the amount it has achieved for the month preceding the month in which it has ceased its duty and for a maximum period of six months. He's out of a job. A man sacrifices, spends time and money to become a director, so he may improve something in the institution, and then he has a risk of losing his job. To the director of the institution, a third position, whose duty has ceased to be resolved, which cannot be deployed to a post that corresponds to the degree and type of his education, the employment relationship ceases, with the payment of the severance payment in accordance with the law. This is not the minister's novelty, this is the solution the previous minister offered and the previous assembly majority adopted. When you add all this together, who has the motive to apply for director? There's no one else. And to make the problem bigger, in the current draft law, article 17 is processed v.d. The director, where the acting officer is guaranteed a stay of business. So, the man who goes to the director's office for six months has a secure job at the end of that function. So he's guaranteed a return to the same workplace, and he's guaranteed nothing by the school board of directors. This really doesn't make sense, and nobody else in Serbia is likely to want to compete for this place anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4159	Here you go. National MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to make another argument in favour of this amendment – why we are against passing the exam for the Director. In fact, so far there has been a professional exam and he has guaranteed that someone is expert in carrying out the teaching program, which was sufficient to guarantee that someone is ruling certain skills that concern education, and here are prescribed some special skills that need to be fulfilled by someone who wants to be the director tomorrow. And in the basic text of the law, the sentences read – a person with higher education, a license for a teacher, a educator or psychologist can be selected for the school's director, the master's corresponding accredited training program for the director. Here this is "a mastered corresponding accredited training program for the director" now passed an exam for the director, which, you'll admit, is exactly the same, which means that nothing has essentially changed. Why is it our goal to even end this so that the law obliges someone to pass the exam for the director? And so far, the situation in Serbia is that in a large number of education and education institutions, you do not have people interested in the job of directors. This further demotes people to want to be directors in some institutions because they have to pass the exam and they have to pay for it. Another problem, which the Ministry can enter, and hence the education system, unless this amendment is accepted, is in this. At the end of Article 58, an existing law adds an opinion saying: "Farther conditions for the selection of directors, type of education, standards of knowledge, skills and competences for the director, the way and procedure for passing exams for the director, the authority of the administration before which the exam is passed, the form of assurance of the exam, the costs of passing exams, the fees for the work of commission members and other questions related to the submission of exams to the director shall be prescribed by the minister. "Look, what's the problem? I would ask the minister if he has already prepared all this, as the minister prescribes it and, if not, we will come into one difficult situation, since in Article 71 of the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the law, the institution is obliged to bring the statute, organisation and way of working with this law into force within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. The six-month deadline is very short. If you haven't already prepared the program, and I believe you haven't, because you didn't have time to prepare this law properly either. So you're going to get into a situation, counting on summer break, that we're going to have a very hard time going through this. Although, however, Article 161 of this Law provides that a period of one year may be extended from this article, the Director of the Institute shall be elected until the date of entry into force of this Act, within one year of the adoption of the Sublaw Act referred to in Article 58 of this Law, to submit an examination for the Director. These are your two members, 71st and 161st in an earlier proposal, in full collegiation. It's been six months, about a year, you shouldn't have let that happen. You're gonna have a lot of problems about that. And there's still a lot of reasons why there shouldn't be an exam for the director. One is that it devalues the expert exam. And who's to go to pass the expert exam, what they're going to get and what they're going to prove, I guess, the license, as planned. And like this, it's completely unclear to us, given that you've prescribed here what special skills the director has to possess, which you're going to prescribe. Whether the future director will have to rule by skill to identify intoxicating drugs, since there are many in the courtyards of primary and secondary schools. Whether the director may have to rule some special martial arts, since there is a lot of violence in primary and secondary schools. You should tell us about these skills right now, if you have a clear bill and if you have a clear way of doing this law. I believe you don't even have a clear program of how you're going to do it, because you don't understand the law, and that's why you can't answer this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4161	Word has a National MP Milan Stanimirović We don't choose when they don't have a deadline. [[Loading from the O.R.: Grandma, call the election.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4162	It's not a bad suggestion, which you heard from the O.R., that the election be discussed, but a joke aside. When a bill is amended according to principle – I know what I don't want, I don't know what I want, but I want it right now – then it turns out the way it looks. I must agree with the part of the amendment proposed by the SRS, in which it says that the exam for the director is excessive, especially when this is the way it's supposed to be. Why did I answer to come out here for this pay phone even though the DS didn't submit an amendment to Article 15? It is a change of the article of the 58th Old Law, in which it stands, in this part, that a person who has a higher education, a license for a teacher, a educator, a psychologist and another professional associate can be selected for a childcare director, an adequate accredited training programme for an institution director, and at least five years of employment in the field of education and education. We have not submitted the amendment, but the DSS has submitted an amendment that the government has accepted and which will make this member even worse than he was. It is about eliminating the modern role of directors, as a person who has to manage an institution, and for that there must be many skills of managers, teamwork, co-operation, projection of the development of the institution, etc. Article 15 abolishs the decision to acquire these skills and remains only a passing of exams. You don't get that skill test. Management is a major, new, European topic in education. Schools are being created for directors, various trainings to acquire new skills, and with us, all of this is being abolished, and it's returning to some state of affairs from before, and it's stopping development. So the possibility of development at school is abolished and deprofessionalized by a person who could represent the autonomy of schools. This is very convenient for someone who wants to stop the development of education. These members shall be ignored for institutional development. The DSS amendment, which the government has accepted, to this member even abolishes words -- standards of knowledge, skills and ability. Since this article stands - the way and procedure for passing exams for the director, the authority of the administration before which the exam is passed, the form of assurance of the exam, the costs of passing the exams, the fees for the work of the commission members and other questions related to the submission of exams for the director is prescribed by the minister; very conveniently, someone who is in power will prescribe which authority of the administration, whether a membership card of a political organisation may be decisive in who will pass this exam for the director. That's also very interesting. I'd like to ask the Minister what the contents of that exam will be. Let's hear the contents of the exam for the director. I'd like to hear the answer from this pay phone. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, says that a regular spring session of the Assembly begins on the first working day in March, and the autumn of the first working day in October, and that it lasts 90 days. You don't talk about working nights. Since we went deep into the night, 127 MPs voted to work all night, until the end of this law, I doubt there are any more cards in the room than there are MPs and I ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4163	I thank the MP Stanimirovic. National MP Milan Stanimirovic voiced doubt that he has enough MPs. Did you ask for it to be determined by counting or by electronic means? Mr. Stanimirović, can I get an electronic? Yeah. ) All right, I'm asking the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' unit and see if we have a quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure, Branislav Ristivojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4164	I ask that the quorum be determined by the count of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4165	All right, I'm asking the service to perform the count. (By the way of the electronic system, the quorum is shown. All right, just a little bit, please. Still, I ask the service, since the proposal has been made to count ourselves manually, we must also follow that proposal. I ask the service to count the MPs. The electronic system shows we have a quorum, but I'm also asking the service to count the MPs. I ask the MPs to take their seats so that the ministry can do its job zealously. (The service does a count. Thank you. The service counted the MPs. According to the service records, there are 134 MPs in the O.R. I ask all the other MPs who have not registered, since the electronic system shows that there are 97 MPs in the room, to be registered, but in one variant and another there are enough MPs to continue the work. Is anyone still coming forward about the amendment? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4166	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I asked for the existence of quorum by electronic means, for it was visually easy to establish that there were more parliamentary cards in the units than MPs in the National Assembly Hall. At the moment of determining the quorum by electronic means, when there was no quorum for work, the chairman of the Assembly, Mr Angelkovic, gave his word to the president of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Ristivojevic, when there was no quorum for work, gave him the word, he spoke, and accepted his proposal to be determined by hand by counting the quorum. So, the moment Mr. Ristivojevic had the word behind the pay phone, there was no quorum for work and he couldn't get the word, and he couldn't accept his proposal. I ask that the Management Board also declare this, i.e. Is there a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4167	Thank you. Please, you didn't get the word, just wait a minute. I'll call you back, just to get some things straight first. The MPs in this House are equal. Please, just let me talk to you for a second. Mr. Stanimirovic suggested that an electronic route be used to determine the quorum. The gentleman suggested counting the MPs. Both systems have been established that there are enough MPs to continue the work and there is no reason to continue to lead the controversy. When it comes to a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will declare that at the end of this session, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4168	Just a short replica to a respected counterpart, Stanimirovic. If what you're saying is true, that the quorum wasn't the moment I came out, you also claimed that the quorum was gone, which means that at the time you left the quorum there wasn't. You claimed he was gone, you expressed your suspicion. One more thing, you're showing basic ignorance of the work of the Rules of Procedure here. It is not the Administrative Board that declares itself, but this assembly in the voting day. You are not present here at all, you have no idea that this is a disputed provision from the old regulations of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4169	I thank MP Branislav Ristivojevic. Mr. Stanimirovic, you didn't get the word, wait a minute. You're reporting from the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4170	Article 100 - MPs are obliged to treat each other with respect. Perhaps, Mr. Ristivoevich, I have no idea about the Rules of Procedure, but you have no elementary home education, because I have not offended you by any act. If you are a legalist, or at least present yourself like that, Mr Ristivojevic, and you and your party, then you will know one thing – at the moment I was behind the pay phone I found that there seems to be no quorum for me visually. It was clear on the screen that there was a quorum to work with, but I was suspicious because I saw the cards, and I didn't see the MPs. That's why I asked to determine whether the electronic system is right and to eliminate those cards where there are no MPs. There were 82 MPs on the screen at that moment. So it wasn't a working quorum. The chairman of the assembly couldn't give you a word, because there was no quorum, so there was no assembly and you couldn't do it on any basis... Mr. Ristivojevic, wherever the law ends, whether in Novi Sad or Belgrade, you could not answer. You should learn some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4171	Mr Stanimirovic, as chairman, I was convinced that at the moment you advertised there was no quorum, there were over 100 MPs in the room, with all 100 MPs present to confirm it. After you took out the cards, we established by counting the service that there are 134 MPs in this room and that there is a qualified majority, and not the majority needed to discuss it, and when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, we will make that clear in the day to vote. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4172	Replication to a respected colleague, Stanimirovic. If he had an elementary education, then when he determined the quorum he asked for, at least he'd keep his card in the system. That's what you should do when you're hardening the quorum. Otherwise, if you claim that someone did not insert their card, then make sure on behalf, as I have today found that Ms. Micic's distinguished colleague did not hold her card, but she held the vacuum behind this speaker. And I told her nicely, when she came to say that her card was in the system, she was lying, and I told her twice. If you claim someone's card isn't in the system, make sure your name and last name is as I did today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4173	Thank you, Mr. Ristivoevich. I suggest we move forward on the amendment to Article 15. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 15, an amendment submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4174	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, in which I ask that Article 58 paragraph 2 changes and reads: "For a childcare director, a person who has a higher education, a licence for an educator, a educator, a teacher, a psychologist and another professional associate can be selected, an exam passed for the director of the institution and at least five years of employment in the field of education and education. "The proposed change allows the director of preschool, kindergarten, to be a person who has a high level of expertise, i.e. from the order of teaching profiles, professor of the classroom. This enables a large number of teachers, who have gained valuable work experience by doing leading jobs in kindergartens, to be in a level playing field with others in competition. We don't mind selecting people from the professions you've listed, where there are such personnel, but what's going to happen in small municipalities, where there aren't a lot of personnel and where there's gonna be a hard choice of directors. If you think anyone can be the director, you're wrong. Don't make a whistle out of every tree, just from willows and she has a variety for it. That is why I would like to invite or ask the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, so that they do not make a mistake again. The municipalities that have rural areas have many problems, where children are transported, where from five villages go to one kindergarten, trying to build a department, kindergartens, etc. I don't think we're gonna make much of it with the frames you've given us. The principal of kindergartens should be a capable man, who will create an organization, and professional affairs is known who works there. I wouldn't say that even with other functions, if we were to go tight, put up some bans, the question is which of the mentioned and current officials might take their place. I urge you once again to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 15 and to be an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4175	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4176	If someone had asked us, and it wasn't, what our experience regarding the application of a member now referred to by a new member of 15, we would have passed on to him. It is obvious that in Serbia it continues with an old tradition, which can be formulated in a sentence -- a young butcher under the tail of a slaughter, or that every house that exists, we have to tear down and build from the foundation of our own. It is true that the issue of expert training is quite a big problem for the director and that we do not have personnel everywhere to name what we sometimes want, and that it is most often in small areas, because it is not a big city problem, where you have people interested in the catch, and with high professional equipment. It is also true what Mr. Jovanovic said, that there is a problem with the director's schedule after he quits office. That's the problem the directors know how to solve. So in practice he gets rid of himself, so he doesn't get rid of all the cards I'm not going to say, but what's not controversial is that these are the two burning problems. The third burning problem solved by those in power, and I want them to solve it, it's a coefficient that distinguishes the director from the other employees. Soon, when it ceases to be attractive as a political function, which cannot be, the director's place will not be attractive to anyone. Then we'll come to a deficit, or we won't be able to choose high-quality executive staff. It's, unfortunately, our experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4177	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4178	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Peric's amendment, our colleague from the SPS parliamentary group, should be accepted. We had several agreements with the Ministry's representatives on this amendment and tried to find the best solution, how to put those people in an equal position in some practical situations, and especially in small places, even founding children's kindergartens or institutions for many years, and very successfully performed the jobs of directors in those kindergartens, but, unfortunately, today, after the amendments to Article 2, Article 58, were prevented from being successful in the past, as long as they were children's kindergartens. What does that mean? You have a professor of geography, a professor of biology, a professor of Serbian, who, by this law, is prevented from competing as head of kindergarten, because he does not meet the previous conditions, or there is no expert exam for an educator or any other category mentioned in this attitude. We just wanted to point to a real life, that the small environments don't have enough of those people who have passed a professional exam for the educator and passed an exam for the director, so that they could do that job in the future. If these solutions are not accepted, then we will make an injustice to a number of people who have done this job very successfully. Otherwise, I know from my experience that the problem of directors and primary and secondary schools is very present. There is also a dilemma in the professional public about whether the directors of educational institutions, including kindergartens, must inevitably be such an educational profile that is directly related to education and education or education. I suppose some of you have often thought about it -- whether it's better to have an excellent lawyer at the head of a primary school or a good economist at the head of a high school, or to have an average professor who, under the circumstances, passed a principal's exam, or an exam for a director, acquired other conditions, but there are no organisational or abilities that we call management skills today. With circumstances, this society goes in this direction that we will have to grow more and more in these primary and secondary schools, including in kindergartens, to just profile such personnel who will know how to deal with these other disciplines, which concern rights, economies and which, above all, concern the creation of conditions and opportunities for better material status and employees in schools, as well as schools as such. That's why I don't think it's gonna take a lot of effort to talk about the reasons for and against the amendment. The amendment is perfectly logical, given the reasons, and I ask the minister and the parliamentary majority to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4179	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment to the 15th People's MP, Slobodan Zivkucin, was also withdrawn. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Nenad Lemajic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4180	Dear Members of the People, I have submitted, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education and Education System, in which I proposed that two new positions be added to that article: "The Director of the Children's School is elected by the Management Board, based on a public competition; the School Director is elected by the school board, based on a public competition. "So, the opinion of the Educational Council is not binding under this law for the Authority of Management, so the Management Board and the School Board can only be responsible for selecting the principal of kindergartens, i.e. the school director. There is no agreement between the Educational Council and the Ministry, but rather the authority of the managing authority. Dear People's MPs, I believe that the secretary's consent to the board's decision on the selection of directors is not necessary. Namely, the proposal for this law gives these amendments and additions to their kind of regulation of relations, which it does not normally have and which it does not belong to under the law. The only right to protect the legality of the selection procedure is judicial protection. That's why this amendment of mine, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is rational and good, and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4181	Anyone else want a word? National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4182	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, as before, makes sense, and I would ask the government's representatives to consider this and accept it. Namely, Article 16. The bill refers to the selection of a school director. Here is the solution that exists in the applicable law. That's where the promoter didn't change anything. It says here that the school director is elected by the school board on the basis of a public competition, and according to the teacher's board. Analoglyzes also the selection of children's kindergarten directors. We intervened with the amendment that this opinion of the teaching council should be deleted, so that the school director should remain elected by the school board, based on a public competition. It says here that the teaching council gives an opinion, but that opinion does not oblige the school board. So this formulation is a little demagogy, a little self-management. We'll give some teachers to play, propose and choose, but then someone there will politically decide who will be head of the school. This isn't honest with teachers. I remember, before 5 October 2000, all of you who are now in this parliamentary majority of the present, and those who were in the previous majority, promised schools to be elected by teachers. You condemned the solution at the time and promised self-government in schools. When you came to power, when DOS came to power, the original DOS kept it, or made a solution for the teachers to play a little democracy at school, so they would sit down and someone would call for a teacher's council, sit down and propose their fellow directors, so they plead, explain, and then secretly vote, send that opinion to their school board, and he says, that man is not from our political option, and he can't be the director. I have to say, I had this experience myself, two years ago, at a teaching council session, I was proposed to be head of school. At the meeting of the school board comes the president of the municipality, interrupts the discussion, and says, "He can't be the head of the school, he's a radical. "Why play democracy? It is more honest and fairer to say there is no possibility of a teaching council to declare it, the director is elected by the school board, he is the managing authority, the founder entrusted him with the function and the duty to elect the school director. Then people will be clear and clear with it. This is what you've given them in half and offered them, but what they do doesn't oblige anyone, you're just making a big deal out of these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4183	The People's Messenger Goran Jocic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4184	Ladies and gentlemen, it was in practice that the teacher's council, let's say for Janko Jankovic, was elected by Stanko Stankovic. Then it is an ideal opportunity that, when it comes to the minister, the minister via his party network asks the base below who is the person elected by the school board's director and is an ideal opportunity to, on the basis of the school board's failure to respect the consent and opinion of the teacher's council, veto the school's director. We think that when it is not a binding decision by a teacher's council, or opinion, it should be abolished, as proposed by the SRS to this amendment. Since the teaching council has its three representatives on the school board, they are also directly represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4185	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4186	Practice has shown that these opinions mean nothing, as the DOS after October 5th and the opposite opinion of these boards inside the school elected directors, and even elected directors of non-participating persons. Of course, it was all done with the consent of the revolutionary Ministry of Education. Since this opinion means practically nothing and does not oblige anyone, I would ask you to pay attention to the fact that in the consolidated text of this article it will be an attitude 4, which reads as follows: "The decision on the selection of the candidate is delivered to the Minister for Understanding". We have even worse experience here. The real copy of this is Mr. Gašo Knezevic. As Minister of Education on 27 December 2000, he abused and, under the right of supervision, abolished the decision of the Dean of the Faculty of Law on the election of Vojislav Seselj as a regular professor, past the law and beyond all. I don't want to bother you with finesse what a complex administrative act means, how it's brought in, and with other things, but I'm amazed by this tendency and these new ones, which are supposed to differ from the previous ones, and these people like to ask themselves, even though they say they've left everything to local self-government and school bodies. This also poses a danger because our political scene has not been built, because there are no more significant roots of parliamentaryism, because there is no tolerance within and between political parties. Be assured that for a while we will witness the fact that as the government changes, the directors suffer. Is it because you do not provide consent or any opinion, so you do not choose a quality candidate, whether because ministers, such as Gusa Knezevic, are not fulfilling the will of the base, even by the postulates that his friend Stevan Lilic teaches. And we wrote about him a book, as well as a book about Gashi. Gasho's been recorded, and the judges have been recorded. The gauze was also condemned by his college colleagues, disgusted, and it's a good thing that the law school is no longer so powerful and strong. He's coming back a little bit and that college's back to normal, and that's good. Now I'm taking the opportunity to warn the ministry's new furniture to use these provisions as little as possible and to take care of people, because this concerns people, and candidates and pretenders to be directors, who manage to pass the exam for the director, to get the strength and to endure for a few more years, they're going to be eligible for change in power, because probably in some of the next election cycles, they're going to rule both law and justice, and they're going to respect the law. Take care, don't be recognizable by what Gasho has made history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4187	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16, in which I request that Article 16 of paragraph 2 be amended and read as follows: "The minister is required to make the appropriate decision within 15 days of the date of the adoption of the proposal of the school board for the selection of directors". I also received the government's opinion not to accept the proposed amendment, because the solution in the bill is in line with the depoliticalisation of the election of directors and with the requirements of rationalisation. It's just funny, you, your political option, have politicized everything you've touched, and with your ideology you've destroyed everything that's worth it in Serbia, all the institutions that have worked hard, and now with these, call, quasireforms in the field of education, you're causing chaos, and I'm just wondering what it's like for educational workers to watch the transmission of the National Assembly session, in front of the reasoned explanations of the SRS MPs, where we point to everything that's wrong in the draft law on education and education. It is necessary for the minister to accept or reject the proposal from the school's board for the selection of school directors in a shorter time than the proposed answer, it is unnecessary for the minister to deal with the job. Is that depolitisation in the educational sphere? Under the earlier law, the minister is required to make a decision within 15 days of receiving the proposal on the election of the director, unlike the current draft law proposing a 30-day period; questions are raised why just 30 days, which occurred to him, why so much, what motivated him to be just 30 days. There may be an administrative silence here, in which the minister can take no act and make a mistake, that there is no act of consent or refusal and that can happen that, apart from the proposal of the school board on the director, we have nothing. In that case, whether it goes from the very beginning or not. Then a dilemma is imposed whether it remains in force for the school board's decision or the minister's proposal. From the reforms in the sphere of education, there's no letter. By your behavior, you cause chaos in the education system. Since I see that the parliamentary majority of your immediate coalition is not interested in working, in order to prevent your gardening in the restaurant and at the bar, please the chairman, I doubt the existence of a quorum, so I would ask the electronic system to determine whether there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4189	We'll see if there's a quorum. Anyone else answer for a word, since we have a quorum? Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic, and you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I was about to say concerns the amendment tabled by distinguished counterpart Dragan Colic, who is very rational, unlike the arguments given by the government and the minister of the state. It is precisely about the position of Ms Ljiljana Colic herself and the position of the Government, which we have very sharp objections to, and the basic characteristic of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, namely, the minister, is that such an explanation of the amendment does not fit into the context of what the SRS and educational workers want, and all those who apply to the post for the election of directors. In fact, it is incomprehensible for us that Mrs. Minister went to such an explanation that the amendment for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unacceptable because the solution in the Bill's proposal, please imagine this sentence structure, in line with the depoliticalisation of the election of directors and in line with the rationalisation requirements. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, although you may have a concentration and attention to the minimum or you are not interested in what Mr. Colic suggested, that Mr. Colic requested a rationalization with the amendment. It's a controversial, unacceptable argument from the Minister. He asks that confirmation of appointments on a proposal by the minister be reduced from 30 days to 15 days, and then you talk about rationalisation; simply incomprehensible. And our basic objection, and we talked about it in principle today, in the election of councils and the confirmation of elections, is that it is a whole law, and therefore the setting up of such members, conditioned by your relationship, that is, these extremely slow and inefficient government, which uses rationalisation and efficiency, which is unacceptable, because it itself is not, conditioned by the IMF on the basis of Mrs. Minister's own recognition, and I'm sorry that she has now come out, but she would have to confirm it on the Education Committee, where she herself said that the dictations of the IMF are clear. And then the question arises, and what is the difference between you and the former DOS government, what is the difference between Mrs. Colic and Gaša Knažević. Aren't those the same dictatorships from the same center, the Americanization of education, the conditioning of Gaša Knezevic. She has now accepted all this in a slightly lighter form, but not enough that people who apply for the director can accept that apparently this government, where there are so many thorns, in which there are and how political calculators, are going to advocate depoliticalism as it stands here, education and rationalisation, and that the Colic amendment does not accept that you are very effective and that the minister, in a very short time, decides whether someone has been elected director or not. This, not only leaves doubt, but it is obvious that your intentions are almost no different from the previous government and that this will create an even greater doubt, and ultimately demoralism among those who are not members of your political parties, and want to compete in this responsible position as director and fulfil all legal obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4191	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4192	Dear People's MPs, this Article 16 has been submitted by our colleague, Colic, and we all agree, and this position should be completely deleted, and why? This is where the minister gave himself the highest authority. It simply humiliates the work of the school board, someone needs to meet, that for more days, and if they don't have the opportunity to choose a high-quality director, they choose from their midst a man who is fit, although he has no quality for that basis, but they have a director of what kind, that is, so that this school can function to be the right man in his place. I agree that the minister can do it right there in his midst, from where he's denied it, where he knows people, so he can say that he and he's not fit, he can't be a director, he knows him personally, and so on. But he can't know all the proposals that come across Serbia. For this reason, the minister has really given himself great authority to hold it off with one move. It can simply be the right man to be chosen, to be in the right place, but it is not from the minister's party and it cannot be the director, and then a warrant is given to look for a man from a party from which the minister, in order to dig him up, find anywhere, if he is not a member anywhere, even better, we will join him in our party, and he will be the director, and if he has an appetite for that function, he will normally join that party to be the director and to be a minister of his own free will. That is why this amendment should be accepted as a whole. I think that's real.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4193	National MP Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4194	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if the vice president of this high house can't learn the names of the MPs in these three months, then I don't know what the government will do in a hundred days. There's still some order. You asked to extend the work and work until the end. Normally, we're ready for that, if we're to work all night, day and night, because it's a very important legal project. I know it's hard for you, you're nervous about the halls and you're right fellow MPs who are looking for quorum here, because if you don't want to listen to the amendments of the SRS and the others, then what can we talk about about the citizens who are watching you and listening here? The amendment to Article 16 is very justified. What's this about? About very serious matter, a very serious member. In fact, as before when we said that the government should give consent to the governance authorities where the founder is, that is, wherever the founder is, the government should give consent, and so the Minister of Education gives consent to the selection of directors. We don't want to centralize anything with these, just so they know the jurisdiction. Just listen to what's meant by this attitude. "It is considered that the school board's decision on the selection of directors has been made, i.e. that the minister gave consent to it if within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision it does not adopt an act rejecting consent. "There are a lot of lawyers here. I would like some good lawyer to clarify and explain this – if he does not bring an act of refusal of consent. What the hell kind of a mess is that? I can see there's a lot of misunderstandings in this bill of law, but it's really one big mess. Is it, then, just as the government wants to take off responsibility for institutions whose founder she is, so the minister wants to take off responsibility for electing a director? I can practically compare what's going to happen. Imagine now that the school board has made a decision on the selection of directors, that it has sent out documentation and is waiting 30 days. By the end of these 30 days, they had not received any notice until the end of 30 days. The man selected by the school board, probably according to the political force of the school board, has already settled there in the chair and started to work. However, on the 31st day or perhaps on the 33rd day, there is a notice, whether by mail or in any way, that the director has been rejected, that no consent has been given. What happens then? Then there's chaos at school, there's education divided into electricity, the school board and so on, both politically and by merit, who should be the director, and then we create a new mess. This amendment envisioned that the minister undertakes to give consent within 15 days. What's wrong with that, gentlemen? There's nothing wrong with it, only the minister is obliged to give consent within 15 days. I think this is just and that this amendment should be accepted by MPs who understand this matter and the problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4195	Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4196	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I took two or three hours off from this very important session. I have been visiting on a local radio and from there I am transferring to my colleagues, to Serbian radicals, support from the field; say citizens -- gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals, it is an honor to defend our interests, as you have defended them so far. As for the amendment submitted by Mr Dragan Colic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, here it is convinced that the minister is here to accept this amendment, because there is really no reason not to do so. In this respect, Article 16 provides that the minister is required to make an appropriate decision within 15 days of the date of receipt of the proposal from the school board for the selection of directors. It is an amendment solution, and the proposed solution of the Serbian government is that it is believed that the school board's decision on the selection of directors has been made, or that the minister has given consent to it if, within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision, it does not adopt an act rejecting consent. Ladies and gentlemen, this is completely legally pointless. I guess the law needs to determine what's going to be done, not what's not going to be done. We need to make clear legal provisions, which are clear to everyone, and clearly and easily applicable. This legislative provision, proposed by the government, is simply not applicable, because it can lead to confusion and a school board, and some possible director, because it may happen that the minister can agree to the selection of directors on that 30th day, to hand over the services to the ministry, and while these services have been delivered to the school board for five or six days now, and means this job cannot be completed in this way. It is obvious that this deadline has been left for the minister to check through his party friends whether someone who applied for a competition for a director, a party loyal minister, or its party, and we Serbian radicals believe that schools cannot be party schools, that schools are institutions of all Serbian citizens, each of Serbia's children, and that no party has the right to usurp the directorial post, only for that reason if one is a member of a party. Of course, it's always about the ruling party. We have very bad experience regarding the work of the previous government, and you know well that in Serbia, maltenes, not maltenes, but definitely, there is no school where the director has not been changed in those three years. Most of these directors are members of the parties that were members of the former DOS. But there are a number of directors and members of the DSS. In particular, I know a few examples in Zemun. These are the arrangements when you publicly said that the DSS had stepped out of DOS, and beneath the grain many functions were retained. Among these functions is a considerable number of directorial functions. With the school's secretaries, it's a special story. Today, in one part of the discussion, I only mentioned, and I also know several schools in Zemun where the secretaries, who were found at work, who had 20 and more years of work experience, were fired without pardons. Today they are at the unemployment office, and party secretaries have been brought in. When one of the teachers says that the school's secertary can't be someone who has a high school, and the school's director says, "This is the biggest lawyer who doesn't like it," he can go. Well, ladies and gentlemen, such directors should go, and such secretaries. The SRS advocates non-partisan directors and secretaries of schools, but they must meet the law of the envisaged conditions, and we must never allow the secretaries of the school to be graduated lawyers again. Of course, with respect for those who have had work experience and who have worked for many years, they can certainly deploy elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4197	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4198	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad this debate is so exhaustive and detailed, but I'm sorry most of this assembly doesn't participate in the debate, because we'd get a better quality law than what's being offered. Article 16 which we are discussing concerns the director, and this member has also been tested by this government, as well as by the previous, specifically proposed and this minister, as well as by the previous minister, Mr Knezevic. Here, according to this solution, it is required that the school's director's election be given by the minister. We discussed school committees and amendments to the SRS 15 minutes ago in which we asked that the selection of the school board be given the consent of the founders. The promoter didn't accept it, which he justified by decentralisation. He says we won't, we'll leave it to the local government, and that's decentralisation. Now, we ask you, if we wanted decentralisation, then we let SO choose the school board, which now means consent to the selection of directors by the ministry. Does this mean that we no longer trust those chosen by the Assembly, the school management body, but now the minister has to check whether the candidate is decent, or who the school board chooses, so it will give consent or not. Well, it was better that you asked for consent to the school board's election and then, with full confidence, passed on that power of choice to the director and stayed out of it. This is how a rather problematic procedure is being made, to determine the agreement for the director, and it is not for the body the director chooses. With this amendment, we wanted this situation to be cleared, to cut the deadline from 30 to 15 days, and to order the minister to make a decision in 15 days, and whether she's positive or not, that's his business. Just that we have a decision in 15 days. If we take into account that this proposal by the Ministry's jurisdiction has been significantly reduced, that the Ministry has in fact no important job, I see no reason why it remains these 30 days. The minister has time to review the paperwork in 15 days and make the right decision. That's all we're looking for. Nothing really matters here that changes in your concept, we just want to speed up and not leave schools in suspense to wait 30 days if someone gets consent or not. If he doesn't get it, he's the director. Can't an act be written that gives someone consent to be a director or that consent is not given. So in 15 days, the minister can do it. We believe that this is the right solution and I ask you to consider and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4199	Does anyone else want a word? Here you go, Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4200	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you have carefully followed the amendments that we have submitted when it came to previous members of the law, you have seen consistency in this matter, the issue of centralised and decentralisation. It was illogical for us that the Ministry did not give consent, i.e. the minister to the school management bodies, and that, in Article 59 of the basic law, it required consent to the selection of directors. Why aren't you interested in managing authorities? I suppose that's why, and given how you've scheduled an exam for the director, you're going to train the director and force him to learn various skills, so he's going to deserve a lot of authority. You are practically only interested in who your director will be, because he will perform the actual management function, and the other management bodies will not be much interested in you. That's all you did was plant the cowardly eggs, by introducing yourself to the citizens as a government that advocates decentralisation, and the basic levers that you want to rule will keep to yourself. Through this you can see that it will always be those who are politically similar to you. If this law survives within a long time, I believe the minister wanted to get rid of the job. And in previous members, where advice and various institutions and centres have been established, the Ministry has tried to exclude itself from the education process, including the control of the process, and now releases itself and those only obligations that would be logical - to give consent to the selection of directors or not to give it. What can happen? It's routine business at the Ministry and it doesn't take much time. The minister doesn't have to commit much, but we're asking him to pass an act in 15 days on whether he accepts it or not. If the minister is left with the possibility of not passing any act, after 30 days it will be considered as the elected director, he remains in office, and continues to work as the director. And how will we know if, in that mutual communication, in the post office or otherwise, the failure of an act that the minister does not give consent to the selection of the director, so it goes more than 30 days, because of inefficient mail, or because of someone's intention, then the one with full right will have a legal remedy and will be able to sue the Ministry, to say that he didn't get it in time, I consider myself a director, no matter what it isn't. Since the entire ministry and the minister have tried to completely isolate themselves from the process of education and education, through the various institutions you're setting up, I can only believe that it's the Minister's desire to devote himself to sports, given that you've brought the two ministries together into one, and you're not interested in this. We'll see, there'll be some laws about sports, how interested you are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4201	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Cirkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, which is related to Article 62 of the current Education Law. I have proposed that Article 18(2) should make certain amendments, so much so that the minister should adopt an act confirming or rejecting the proposal of the school board on the discharge of directors within 15 days. The government's explanation is absolutely illogical, unacceptable, when this amendment does not accept, and the reasons for which the amendment is not accepted because the decision in the bill is in line with the depolitisation of the election of directors and in line with the rationalisation requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no logical connection here, there is no legal logic that something like this can be legally formulated, because the promoter says – it is believed that the school board's decision on the discharge of the director has been made, or that the minister has given consent to it, if within 15 days of the date of its delivery it does not adopt an act of refusal or consent. The act of refusal of consent shall be adopted by the Minister if the procedure determines that the decision has not been made in accordance with the law or its adoption calls into question the smooth performance of the school. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of words here, because by studying this bill, the MPs of the SRS have submitted a number of amendments that should improve this bill. In an election campaign, the current government pledged to bring the constitution by June 28th and that it would be a priority. As you can see, there is no theoretical chance that the Constitution of Serbia, a new constitution or a change of constitution, can be brought within that time limit. (President: Please stick to the topic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the topic, because, Mr. Chairman, that a new constitution has been adopted, then a new law on education should be passed with that constitution, and it should be harmonised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to say that there is no depoliticality here, there is no speech, because the SRS MPs today have pointed out on several occasions how the election of directors in schools is done, and that they are mostly members of political parties that are in power, and that they are replaced by people who are both professional and qualified to perform that duty. I'd like to miss the director for a moment. I ask the question of the Minister of Education and Sports – how in such a short time, he hasn't even warmed the chair yet, he writes the law. This is a system law. The system law is done for a year, two or three years. These are the changes and additions that have destroyed all the rules in the field of education so far. On the other hand, they accepted the previous law on education. What's most important is, if a law like this is to be passed, it's to create conditions. Changed circumstances are not to that extent... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... that we could now comprehensively make these fundamental changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS feels that there is a need to improve wages, increase education workers, not to live the way they live, on a beggar stick, from teachers, teachers and teachers, so that our teachers and teachers don't dress on flea markets... (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. )......................................................................................................... That's why we're asking you to raise your salary to the educators. Second of all, don't make such a fuss. Increase your wages and create conditions, and change the law and adapt it to the standards of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4203	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4204	If the government of the Republic of Serbia had a better Secretariat for legislation, something like this could not happen in the bill. We don't get into these reasons why the school's managing body can get rid of the school director. The amendment only touches points 3 and 4. Your proposal states that it is believed that the school board's decision on the discharge of directors has been made, and then you state some conditions. There remains a previous position in which it is said - the managing authority can relieve the director of office before the term of office expires. How does he get rid of it? By making a decision. When is the decision considered to be made? When the school board made a decision. You're in the field when that decision produces a legal fact. It should produce a legal fact when the minister's consent comes, because the decision to dismiss the director is a complex act with you. So you're in the field when that decision produces a fact, when that decision comes into force. It was brought on the day when the managing authority brought in and produced legal consequences only when consent was ensured, i.e. the act of the minister. This precision is basic, it is necessary, and I am surprised that your Secretariat for legislation – though, you changed everything completely, and it is not a pity, and the previous one was nothing better – so you had to take care of it, since the decision was made when the school board made. Then Petar Jojic amended it, that the minister is obliged to resolve the situation within 15 days, either giving consent or refusing to give consent, and within 15 days, it is known whether a man is resolved or not. You've made a mistake with this mess -- it's believed that the decision was made, and it was made on the day the school board made it, that date. Now I have to point out one more thing that will appear in practice as a major problem. It will come up as a problem because the shift of local authorities and authorities on the republican level does not occur on the same date, so we will have a situation where one set is at the republican level at the government, and in the specific environment local government holds another structure. Basically, we're gonna have a blockade. That's why I said half an hour ago that the directors were going to be expendable for a while and that their status wouldn't know what to fix by the fact that they had to pass the exam for the director. Nothing's gonna fix that. You'll see for yourself, and you know it, when someone comes out of the local government, you get rid of that director, it bothers me, it'll be time for the consent to be provided. Or, when someone closes a thunderbolt, get me the director, and the minister says, "I can't," they're from my party, and there's no consent. We're going back to the field. Where there's a student, where there's a teacher, and you're fighting over the media what's at the heart of your reform. There are no students in the quasireform, there are no educators, there are only naked political interests and fighting for the position in which school directors cooperate because they want to be a slave for manipulation. Since the National Assembly has passed the law, we want this law to regulate what the minister's jurisdiction is and what part he can interfere with. That's why this 15-day deadline. So, on the 15th day and school, and the place and local self-government knows whether or not the director is resolved, and your solution will not know if he's been resolved in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4205	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petar Jojic, as a prominent legal expert, wanted to prove to you this time from the ruling coalition – to the Minister, who is not here, and to the ladies who are probably represented by the Ministry of Education, because they did so and while Gašo Knezevic was a minister, they probably know what concept they're up for now, because they accepted what Gaš was up for, and now what Mrs Colic – that the SRS, unlike you who do so only declaredly, wants legal certainty and wants a legal approach. It is not good when you write the law like this, because previously the secretary of the Republic Legislative Secretariat was Biserka Zivkovic, who is the wife of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, and she did not want to pay much attention through writing the law, and had no one to point to those failures. I think it's the same thing right now, because like this, I'd say, let me say, a college interpretation by the legislator is not good. If the school board has already decided that a school director should be resolved and if a 15-day period is prescribed for it, then it must stand so precise and clear in the law, as proposed by Mr Petar Jojic. He suggested, we think it is only acceptable and only correct, that Article 18 of paragraphs 3 and 4 should be amended and said, "The minister is obliged to adopt an act confirming or rejecting the proposal of the school board on the discharge of directors within 15 days." I see that ladies from the Ministry are also present at the university because they are not very interested in what, in the absence of the minister, representatives of the SRS say. In the case of appointing, 30-day period is scheduled for this, and 15-day discharge. Again, you have the same explanation with both members of the law, and with Article 16 when it comes to appointing, and when it comes to a resolution, the Government has the same explanation: it is legally possible to amend and co-worker Colic in Article 16 and Jojic in Article 18, but it is not accepted because of this already known sentence "that the solution in the bill is in line with the depolitisation of the election of directors and in line with the requirements of rationalisation". Whoever understands it will understand who is not. In preparation for the debate and in principle, and the amendments, I am sorry that I came only in the evening, and it was a great pleasure to spend my valuable time today together with representatives of the Russian State Duma and the delegation who visited the SRS, I found one text from the 14th century, which says, "What about the teacher who teaches and doesn't stick to it? I wish he hadn't been born." Actually, that's the whole truth. The government, which is drawn up in such a way and which has a minister who steps forward in this way, and proposes to us inaccurate legal provisions, better it never met, better it had never asked for support from those who would deny it or deny it, that is the question, but rather I think that the citizens will deny it to you already on June 13th and it will be quite realistically clear, as you can see that you do not have it. It will be more than obvious, because by this law, inaccurate legal provisions, and with a lot of failures and shortcomings, you do not go to the hands of educational workers who, besides everyone else today in Serbia, and those who are employed in health care, pensioners, and unemployed, are more than humiliated. But you're not able to provide them, through such a legal proposal and through everything you do, or do not, and close to your 100 days, the ability to work better and to have a better opportunity to give their knowledge to the children they need to provide.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4207	Anyone else want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the irony is that after 13 hours of work, we find that the government, in an explanation for the refusal of amendments to the honourable MP, Mr. Peter Jojic, said: "The amendment is not accepted because the draft law is in line with the depoliticalisation of the election of directors and in line with the requirements of rationalisation. "All the time and all the members of this law point to politicisation and the bringing of not-experts, but politically similar and obedient directors, and then the irony of "depolitisation", and because of depolitisation, the amendment, which obliges the minister to give his position on the issue, within 15 days of the Director's resolution. Madam Minister, no more of this reason to distract MPs, especially SRS MPs, but also the Serbian public, who is watching what we do in these late hours tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4209	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Belic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 18a be added after article 18a. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, this MP withdrew this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4210	Article 19 has a marginal title - school program. The aim, the idea and reason for introducing this member into the law was in the concept of the entire educational programme structure. This structure was based on two previous acts. So, the school program is based on two previous acts. One was called the general basics of the school programme, and it envisioned the structure of teaching by year for overall schooling, and the other was called the special basics of the school programme, and it provided for the structure of the course by class. On the basis of these two acts brought by the Ministry in the final instance, it doesn't matter how before that, each school had its own school program. The idea behind this idea is the school program in the variety of school programs from school to school. The schools left certain freedoms in the concept of these programmes and each school had to differ from the one next door, that is, the other. A school based in the city had no need to give its students special traffic education, as the assumption that they had it, such as a school located in small towns and rural areas had no need to give their students additional education from the knowledge of nature and similar items. That's why every school was able to figure out a part of the program on its own. It's an idea behind the concept of the school program, as it was in the 2003 law. There's a school program here that retains the concept, but it's given a completely different meaning. We are again present to use the same name for different phenomena, without any differentiation, without any indication that it is a technical term or anything like that. The school programme is called a programme that brings allegedly schools, based on plans and programmes prescribed by the ministry. If there are already plans and programmes prescribed by the Ministry, advice, okay, if there are these plans and programs, then what is the need for school to deliver a special school program. Do we want to put additional administrations on the staff of schools not to apply plans and programmes directly, but rather to call the school program, which will be reviewed by the curricula and the program. Thus, no rational justification is behind the use of the term school program, which marks a whole different burden on teachers, and the teacher’s burden alone does not make any reasonable sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4211	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Petrovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4212	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Knezevic has given an explanation for this amendment, but I would like to draw attention to something that represents a political framework that shows within itself the essence of the changes that this law will introduce into our education system. It is very important to bear in mind the political premises on which all parliamentary parties and parliamentary factions in this House have established their political action and have been shown through our ultimate or supreme political objectives. There is no doubt that the ruling coalition's declarative commitment, at least that of its work given by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, is also Miss Minister who defends this law today. The definition of the government and these parties is that Serbia as a state and that Serbian citizens are in the European Union as soon as possible. This law shows that what constitutes a verbal definition of this government does not come to any conclusion in the positive regulations proposed by this government to parliament and which should become legislative solutions when the parliamentary majority in this assembly votes. Mr. Knezevic spoke of technical terms and how nominations in this law or in the proposal to amend and supplement this law differ according to the law which is currently in force. I want this Parliament and the public to draw attention to the essence behind these terms. This law or amendments and additions to this law restore the focus of education and education system to what it represents an entry into education. These are plans and programmes, and these will be the contents that the ministry, if these changes and additions are adopted, will bring, and will represent not only a framework but a complete content of what children in Serbia will learn in schools. The gravity of the current law, which was passed in 2003, was on what students should learn; in measuring what children in Serbia should learn. This substance is fully in line with the recommendations we have received from the OECD, the Union and with the recommendations that are in line with the European Union directives. Madam Minister, I ask you here what your intensity is, which consists of your deep intention to bring Serbia closer to the EU in the field of education. That's not true. Serbia returns in the 1990s, Serbia returns deep into the 20th century, Serbia returns in time before the Berlin Wall and Serbia fall. And that's the theme, ladies and gentlemen, that's a subject you're unfortunately not aware of, but it will become aware of this advice that will be established when this law, if it is, is brought in. How many steps back is this law that you have proposed and how much time it takes for Serbia that has wasted the last decade... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... finishing... as well as succeeding after 5 October to grab a connection with the civilized world, and that civilized world that is being depicted in the EU, as far as I know, no parliamentary group and no MP in this House wants to turn their backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4213	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4214	Ladies and gentlemen, a colleague just told me that no one cares where I was while I was in this room, even though the session lasted. I don't think he's right. We Serbian radicals account for our voters, and if you do not, it is your business and voters know that prices and estimates. That is why I must now say that I will defend the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by MP Nemanja Sarovic, who is currently absent because he is visiting on a television set in Nis. An amendment relating to Article 19, and that Article 19 amends Article 69 of the basic law. The second point is that the school program brings school, in line with curricula and programmes. Further, he says, the school programme is provided by achieving curricula and programmes and the needs of students and parents, schools and units of local self-government. We don't think this is a good solution, because I guess they're all the same, but unfortunately, conditions are different. When I say that, then I mean the working conditions of many schools in Serbia, which are below each level and about which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, neither this, the former regime, thinks nor intends to do anything to improve these working conditions. The amendment to Article 19 proposed that the school programme be agreed by the minister and explained that it cannot be allowed for the managing authority to adopt a school programme without the consent of the founders. It simply has to be resolved, and the Serbian government has rejected the amendment with reasons that the same matter is covered by Article 77. The law. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not true either. This law, which is changing today, when it was on the agenda and then we from the SRS said it couldn't be let programs be brought in by schools or local self-government units. We believe that all schools in Serbia must have a single programme, and it is certainly no centralisation whatsoever. On the contrary, what is the Ministry’s obligation, or minister, is to give consent to this programme and, of course, to the school boards to adopt it in accordance with their acts. The final position of this member states that the student who has been defined for one of the two electoral subjects, religious education or civic education, the chosen subject retains the subject until the end of the initial cycle of primary, i.e. until the end of secondary education and education. I talked about this in principle debate and Mrs. Colic gave some explanation, which is certainly not what the representatives of the SRS wanted to hear. We don't think that this can be solved in this way and that children can't be forced to follow civil education until the end of school, if they accidentally make a mistake and commit themselves to that education. Maybe under someone's influence or because they think it's modern. And we think exactly what many parents think and what many children think, maybe about a month after listening to that teaching from civic education, that it's a civil education in fact a brainwashing of our children and this particular member shows and proves that we are right when we claim there is no difference between the government of the former regime and the government of the current regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4215	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4216	I'm saying that you haven't really changed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4217	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've asked us to work until the debate is over and we're ready to work day and night, but to be clear in our views and in what cannot possibly be left to the case. When it comes to the school program in amending the law, in its basic course, it is one of the most important standards for us Serbian radicals, besides everyone else. This rests entirely with our education, both primary and secondary, and the MPs as representatives of the highest legislative body in Serbia must face it. Who is not ready to clearly and precisely determine what kind of school we want in Serbia or who, God forbid, is an advocate – and unfortunately, there are those in this assembly, I hope that by winning the SRS and our convincing majority, which sooner or later follows, there will not be many such advocates, who are willing to do whatever we consider to be the destruction of our Serbian national beings and schools in general – the Mondialist approach in the field of education here in this assembly, there is no responsibility nor responsibility for the work it deals with, regardless of what political parties it comes from, and at least has responsibilities towards the state, children and future generations. What is acceptable to you and what the IMF tells you is not something that can make the SRS and most Serbian citizens conditional and should not be so. The previous regime, whose minister was today's MP, Gašo Knezevic, had such a Mondialist approach and the minister was coming for this pay phone and he advocated for days just like this so-called Sorosev programme, so-called. The "step-by step" program, the Americanization of education and everything that degrades both our spiritual and cultural heritage and everything that we Serbs were from Nemanjec, so to speak. If Saint Sava is the progeny of our schooling, if these are the brightest traditions of the Serbian people, we Serbian radicals, as well as the vast majority of Serbian citizens, and you will be convinced on June 13th, we are not ready to play with it and to gamble and to direct our schooling and our youth to something that does not contribute to our spiritual rebirth, nor to preserve our tradition, nor to our spirituality. It was shown during DOS rule, and we don't see that you're significantly changing this law, that it's the school that needs to be that institution, this institution that's going to build knowledge, so, about ourselves, who we are, what we're trying to do, what state we want to live in and what we want to stand up to. That is why it is very important that the minister – and soon it will not be Mrs. Colic, because the government will also understand that there is no support for citizens and we will go to new parliamentary elections, and in the future government, there will certainly be someone from the SRS responsible for education – who will take responsibility for the school programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4219	Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4220	And we're ready to take on that kind of responsibility that we won't accept the mondialist and globalist uniformity dictated by the IMF through various exposures, through units of local self-government. They have the opportunity to influence the formation of the school programme, and we believe that this amendment by fellow counterpart Nemanje Sarovic should be accepted, because the minister must have responsibility when adopting or rejecting the school programme ahead of him. Therefore, in the face of what is the future of Serbia and of all generations, I think that the awareness that this is very important, the creation of a school programme, and what education we in Serbia should have, it is up to you and your conscience to take care of it and to really stick to those brightest flows and traditions that we Serbs have and that no one should take away from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4221	MP Albianic. (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Replica. ) Excuse me, you want to wait, there's a replica, please, because Gašo Knezevic answered the line. He's got a head start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4223	The step-by-step program has nothing to do with Sorosch, but I know you used it just to insult someone and nothing else. Therefore, I do not wish, Mrs Jovanovic, to answer you essentially nothing. But there is another problem here with the school program, which is the university part of the school program. For whom he's academic, do you for children, do you for school, do you for teachers, do you for the state? How are you going to fit it into the census? These are all serious issues that you will have to solve in practice, and the census is that limiting factor, we all who have been in education know how important it is, precisely for the opportunity of teachers, or for the standard of teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4224	MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4225	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so we've been witnessing a major obstruction all evening. Miss Jovanovic, I'm a graduate mathematician. I worked on my teaching plan and the math program and wrote a plan and programme for M13 for electrical engineering schools in Serbia. Now I'm asking you, what is your profession with which you speak rightly about curricula and programs? With what right? With what right do you distract our public in Serbia. We've been witnessing here the whole time, that Ali Gasho and 40 radicals are making obstructions all night. I think Serbian citizens need to know what this is all about, so it's clear to everyone that it's all a matter of obstruction, not one reasonable criticism of the legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4226	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, followed by the People's MP Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4227	Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm advertising Article 97. Rules of Procedure. who speaks of a People's MP having a discussion in particular having to talk only about what's on the agenda. Could Mr Albianic add two and two, and have seen Serbian citizens during his presentation. As for me personally, and to respect my esteemed profession, Mr. Albianic, if I were to ask myself, you couldn't even be touristic in this room tonight. As for my right and my obligation to speak about what the school programme provides and what is important, you are making fun of it, but tonight when we talk about it and the minister's responsibility, if you don't understand it or most of the MPs, Mrs. Colic certainly knows that what I'm talking about and how important it is for the adoption of this amendment and for this law. My moral right, as a representative of the strongest and best opposition, but soon the ruling parties in Serbia, is that, as a Serbian patriot and nationalist, I point out that we will not be globalism, mondialysis in our education, that we want tradition, culture, everything we want to respect and what we want to build on the foundations of modern but real Serbian education. You will never be able to understand this, colleague, for the simple reason that your consciousness as you speak about the law and the education system is certainly not focused on the aspirations of most Serbian citizens, who know well that the future of generations in our country is exactly what we have the brightest knowledge of, above all, respecting culture and history, and all the brightest things that the Serbian people have. On the other hand, Mr. Mihajlovic, it is your obligation, as someone who chairs the Assembly, that indeed in a situation in which we are talking about something that is the future of our youngest population, honor the MPs of the people. If one MP stands back, if 30 MPs in a marble, in any case impolitely stand in the back of the hall, if the MPs of the SRS, reasoned and fundamental MPs, cannot in the atmosphere that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deserves to speak about what is the future of our children and all generations in Serbia, then you, Mr. Mihailovic, must take a break from the Rules of Procedure, if you are not able to create the conditions to work here normally. Anyway, it's up to you. Although midnight is coming, Serbian citizens, parents whose children are supposed to learn about your programmes are monitoring this and will know that they are choosing June 13th, and still, so as not to represent them and that they would not decide the fate of children in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4228	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to advertise article 99, which says the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I'm really sorry to have to tell my Kragujevčanka Natashi Jovanovic that the rally is something where the radicals were, that there's no need for citizens of Serbia, who are already going to rest and sleep, to be harassed by talking about the mitinses, who are going to win, how they're going to win or whether someone's been on TV or not on the TV show, or on the radio show, and what messages should be sent to the MPs. I still think this is a very serious subject to be discussed by the relevant factors and MPs who are of the profession. No, of course, that MPs who only tell stories and troubles of time come out. We have decided because of the importance of the law to end this very important law for all of us, to stay here until the end of this law, but does not mean that we should harass each other and perhaps some of the gallant debates of some MPs to wake up. I don't think there's any point in everything that's being seen and shown here tonight, this isn't going to be an honor or an SRS voter, and I think we need to seriously address the overall situation in order to end this very important law in the end. Of course, we have shown in some times that are behind us x times and rationality, but I think we need to be rational a little bit, to use our time and, of course, not to waste all of Serbia's citizens, and if someone thinks that the propaganda is from 12 till dawn, I think it's wrong. None of the citizens will be watching this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4230	First Ambassador Knezevic, Jovanovic, and Veselinović, and then... No, not you. Please, I said what's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4231	As immunity does not protect against lies, neither should political disqualifications. Less or less, what is said, but Gashi and 40 members of the radical party, it is a minor problem. The bigger problem is saying something that has nothing to do with the truth. The Democratic Party - Boris Tadic was presented to the amendment's own applicant and with me as a representative of the parliamentary group for each of the amendments tabled. Is there any obstruction that two representatives of a political group are discussing the amendment? So, as far as DS - Boris Tadic is concerned, it has nothing to do with obstruction. The choice of working time, and as long as we work, was not a choice the current opposition could oppose. Most of them made a decision, with 129 votes. At one point you caught people and brought them here and then they disappeared. We are now struggling at the 82 - 83 border. Now we're standing everywhere, right here in this room no one can, and not that they won't, but they can't, by physical law, think about the subject. If that's so important, my lords, stop this debate. Make an appointment for tomorrow, so we can move on. If this is so important, let's give Serbia a chance to hear this discussion, when she has not already had the opportunity to hear a public debate that you have not organised.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4232	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, then Vesenovic, and Jovanovic again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4233	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Mihajlovic, I have a reply to the Kragujevcans' Rules of Procedure, New Serbia MP Vladan Vukevic. It is true that I am Kragujevchan, but I am a Serbian radical and someone who is very responsible, especially when it comes to something called the school programme or educational programme of children in Serbia. On several occasions, almost ten minutes, trying to convince you, regardless of which political party you belong, that it is necessary to accept the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic, has shown why it is so and is not a mere formality. It's not called obstruction. It's not called tiring Serbian citizens before midnight. It is called responsibility, moral responsibility and all that MPs of political parties should have when it comes to education in Serbia, regardless of which party they belong. But since it is obvious that your conscience is not pure and you do not want to face your argument, and that was pure as a tear of argument based on what we are as a people, as a state, as responsible people in this House, then it is not worth talking to you. Just because someone suggested and you decided to work at this time, and that's not the first time, Serbian radicals who have long-standing parliamentary experience, knew they were working both in the Federal Assembly and here in the Assembly for up to two or three hours at night, but never dropped our concentration, with the awareness of who we are, what we are, that we are responsible people, that we were sent here to perform responsibly, no matter how many hours there are. And now it's about children in Serbia, and we're going to continue like this until four or five o'clock in the morning, and you gentlemen, if you're not trained, if you're sleeping, if your pancakes weren't enough, if your coffee wasn't enough, then go home and don't work. We'll work. We'll perform responsibly. We would also report that there is a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, who is prevented from coming, but in any case make sure that it is important for us to settle the law in accordance with our principles and what we are. Don't ask us, just because you don't know what obstruction is, so you're transferring us to being responsible MPs, changing our 15-year-olds and our views and doing it now that it's obvious that most of Serbia is for us. Well, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4234	Thank you. Just a minute. The Rules of Procedure have the advantage, and then you will have the replica, so you will receive the amendment, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4235	Article 100 - People’s MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of this congregation, I would advertise it. I wouldn't have called in if I were advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure if some respected colleagues hadn't pointed out that all the amendment promoters were here tonight. Well, they're not. At least one amendment, dear colleague Beretic did not explain it here, but was done by a respected colleague, Stanimirovic, and at least one SRS amendment, Mr Sarovic, did not explain him, but a respected colleague of Mrs Radeta. It's obstructions, not amendments. Otherwise, their proposings would be here to explain nicely what it is, what it really is. Maybe the promoters would change their minds and withdraw the amendments at the last minute. But no. They've thrown them into the process of this assembly, they've been distracting us here all night, and they can't even get that little dignity to this assembly to show, to come and explain these amendments. As for you, distinguished colleague Jovanovic, you were not here for four hours, but at a rally in Zrenjanin and then you came and transferred us as we extend the debate. For not being with us here, in this home, constructively contributed to this debate. You weren't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4237	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to correct Mr. Albianic. He just said that the obstruction here is making - but Gasha and 40 radicals. Mr. Albianic, although I don't see him in the O.R., you've made two mistakes. You've connected it to an integral liaison, as you say, Ali Gashu and the radicals. It can't be connected. Second mistake, you said 40 radicals. Here are 82 radicals, with a tendency to increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4238	Thank you. You'll get the word, the replica... Just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4239	Mr Ristivojevic, it is true that I explained the amendment to Mrs Beretic, because Mrs Beretic was prevented, since she was in the campaign of the new president of the Republic of Serbia, and she cares about the adoption of the amendment, just like the man who worked so many years in education, to fix the law, to prevent you from destroying the three-year effort to pass a European law. And now I understand why you're in a hurry and work at night to pass this law. After Vidovdan, the new president of Serbia, Boris Tadic, will give you back any such law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4240	Thank you. Please stop the presidential campaign and get back to work. Please, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4241	Replication to Zlatan Jovanovic's statement. One of my old professors, unfortunately now deceased, used to say, when my colleague agreed with me, so he named him, I'm probably wrong. This time I know I'm right, just like the MPs DS - Boris Tadic. We are right because we are fighting to preserve the idea of changing education in Serbia and harmonising that education with the highest standards of quality. I'm right because we're responsible for our children, who may one day freely choose the jobs that exist, to be employed in the jobs that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4242	Here you are, MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4243	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it has already begun to be called here on expertise and expertise. I get it, when the gentleman came out from G17 plus and he was talking here, why is that Gashin and this law bad? It is clear to me that when we have proposed on the Committee on Education our amendments, which are based on the law, the one who has not read it, it would be good to take all amendments of the SRS and look at everything from member to member, whether they are constructive, whether they are good or not. This will be the most concluded by Serbian citizens. I've seen G17 plus participating both in this government and in the past, but they've been called differently, and I've concluded that they're a relationship between the Ministry of Education and the financials from abroad. They are really experts, and now both we and Serbian citizens can easily see what they are, who are the ones who are connected to financial transactions and all the other mobsters that are working in this country. When it comes to this amendment, we will professionally speak and explain what was the objective of the amendment submitted by Mr Nemanja Sarovic. In fact, as in our previous amendments, we wanted the founders to be the ones to give consent to their institutions. We didn't name the Serbian government or local self-government, the local unit, but we said the founders were in debt. We also talked about previous amendments that the Minister of Education is obliged to give consent to the selection of directors. That's what we're talking about now. This amendment says that in the control of school programs, the Ministry of Education needs to have the authority. Otherwise, it will happen to us that depending on the government elected at the local level, the school board, or the managing authority, depending on the school to school, where whoever rules, is making the school programs. This is the essence of the problem that we are talking about, and that is why we are asking that a new position to be added to the school programme is given to the minister in Article 69 after Article 8. What's wrong with that? Is this some kind of obstruction? These are arguments and facts. The Ministry of Education would like to put everything away and that the minister might be doing other jobs, that he may be traveling as Gasha traveled. This is an amendment that obliges the Ministry of Education to give consent to the school program and that's the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4244	National MP Gašo Knezevic, replica. After that, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4245	Before you start talking, using something that should look like data, please check the data. In the Serbian government, there is a list of all my travels. A few, three and a half years from now, maybe five were at the expense of this country. I went to all the meetings on call, by the organizers paid. Please check the data.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4246	MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4247	When the debate comes to that point when some reform comes to the essence, then speakers who pretend that something was in education and that they were working, and then accuse the MPs of submitting amendments, and when they criticise the forgetting of the fact that an amendment of the SRS was adopted on the same member. With this second amendment, starting with what is written in our Constitution and from what the legislator of this law wrote in the first sentence of his argument, which is – the Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing a system in the field of education and social care for children, we suggest that the minister gives consent to school programmes. Let's remind those who pretend to be experts, that they wrote some curricula, programs, I didn't even understand what they were writing, but I know that math doesn't know. If they knew the math, they'd count from this side of 82. To warn them of one fact, the school program represents an implementation of something that is a social commitment to education and education. It is the implementation of curricula and programmes, namely bringing down to something called a specific school. There is a need for the Ministry or Minister to give consent to these individual school programmes of each educational institution, in order to preserve equality and approximately the same system in all schools within the same rank, same degree, etc. Why is this necessary? It is necessary because we have two elementary schools that are maybe a mile away from each other and we have the fact that one school is recommended, and the other one is avoided. Why? Because they're not the same at the level. Those formally-legal can have the same school program, and it can be a terrible difference in the view of those children who finish one or the other schools. That is why it is necessary for the Ministry to take full care and to agree. Control should not be a post-festum, but by giving consent to the Ministry's school programme confirms that in the mandatory electoral and this university part of the school's programme, there is what is the state's definition of education. It bothers you. The post-control of school programs is too late. It can create harmful consequences. That is why it is necessary for these school programmes to be agreed to by the Ministry and to be a guarantee that they are unique standards, that what is stated in the plans and programmes is implemented, included in school programmes and that one school will stick to it. There's no reason to worry about it. You want reform. You want to improve that. You don't just want to improve the speaker declaration, on the media, do it in practice. Do it. Take responsibility for the situation in education. It's not the ministry's responsibility to do, possibly, the good text of the draft, the government has accepted as a good proposal, the majority of the assembly voted for it here, and when it comes to life, it doesn't. In order not to do so, it is therefore necessary for the Ministry, as a guarantee that the education system in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia will be unique, uniform in what is mandatory, electoral and university, it is necessary for the Ministry to assume responsibility and therefore we have submitted an amendment saying that the ministry is obliged to give consent to school programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4248	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I don't see one of the MPs I called for. I must say that the amendment of young Mr. Nemanje Sarovic, a respected colleague, has a better chance of being adopted in this assembly than Boris Tadic has a chance of being elected president of Serbia. He can only be president of Cedi, Janjusevic, Kolesar, Baby, Kostic and such, and thank God, Serbia has no chance of being president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4250	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Vladimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4251	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that my colleague, Princeevic, has been objectively prevented from explaining his amendment, but I cannot agree with Mr Albianic that the DS-Boris Tadic group is obstructing. It's really not our intention. We believe that the existing law solution meets all European standards at this time. With regard to Article 20 and the amendment tabled by my colleague, Knezevic, I would like to say this: this amendment is related to the amendment to Article 19 and to the propo of the existing law. In the current law, the school programme is based on the broad programme framework for the overall education, based on which specific frameworks have been developed for each individual class. In the existing law, the programme's special basics are the programme and methodical framework, based on which school teachers prepared the school programme. By erasing points 70-73, what do you get, or what's lost? In the first place, a percentage statement of the law guaranteeing freedom of school in relation to the software documents was abolished, that in the existing law of 2003 it was 10, 20 or 30%. So, a special part of the school program, which provided just the possibility of increasing the foundation of basic, mandatory or electoral classes, depending on the needs of the students themselves. One way is to eliminate autonomy, the specificity of schools, which is allowed under the existing law. By abandoning the outcome, which were the topic of controversy between Prof. Dr. Gasa Knezevic and Mr. Krasic of the SRS, and as we heard in the end, the Serbian Orthodox Church supported the term. Now it's just about goals, purposes and tasks. Basically, all you get is what a teacher needs to do, but there's nothing to say about what a student needs to gain permanently, or with what acquired knowledge a student comes out in the end. Then, by abandoning the educational areas, it is lost sight of the scientific unity and integrity of the child and is back to the land of knowledge in question. Also, the foundation of the school programme has been abolished, a document showing the overall education since the first grade until the end of high school. Instead, nothing else has been set up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4252	Anyone else want a word? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4253	This amendment to Article 20 was given because the intervention contained in this proposal excluded three important areas representing the structure and philosophy of the school programme, as imagined in 2003. These are the general basics of the school programme, the specific basics and the achievement of the school programme. I told you in the exhibit, which happened about five or six hours ago, that at first I wasn't even happy with the term "go." I got that confirmation I got, that it was our appointment and that certain circles were behind it. More or less whether we're going to call the outcomes or not, it's important that in the education system, and at the end of it, there's something that can be measured, and that's what these are called. If you don't have anything to measure in the education system, then you don't know how many schools she's added to each individual's values, from the moment he was enrolled in school to leaving school. So we can't say that the extra value in all individuals is the same. She's different by a lot of things. If we have the parameters we're measuring, then there's a possibility that certain independent centers can measure it. By throwing out the freedom of schools at a certain percentage, the concept of at least partial autonomy is completely lost, and that is pedagogical autonomy of schools. That's two categories, two goals we set ourselves, and I don't think any civilised state should give up. I'm afraid that what is now envisaged is only an additional administration for teachers, and it does not improve and control the quality of the system in anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4254	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4255	Mr Vice-President, honourable MPs, I hope that the camera is recording this cheerful atmosphere produced by the parliamentary majority's decision that in five to 12 we will all be forced together to deal with one of the key issues for the formation of our state system, because the way in which this law will in future regulate education, a system of education and education, is certainly one of the fundamental areas of which each one, in one way or another, of the 7.5 million citizens of Serbia will depend. The other important thing is that Miss Minister didn't last this time of night either, she left us. I hope she's looking at this somewhere, so she'll also record the answers to the remarks we're about to make. The two predecessors, who spoke of this amendment, said what is the essence. The point is precisely that it is necessary for us to determine here today, I hope that Miss Minister will also do so in the final presentation, which includes Serbia's approach in the field of education, at the moment when this law becomes a positive right and when it comes into force. When the system comes out of the general and special basics of the school programme, then there are plans and programmes, which are completely or almost entirely eliminated from our education system, the possibility of educational radicals themselves to participate, naturally on occasions, and they are very different in the state of Serbia, because Serbia also consists of Belgrade, where we are now, but also consists of villages across Serbia, with different specificities or specialities. Why is trust in the ability of educational workers in Serbia denied? That is why it raises doubts about the expertise, skills and quality of people who teach children in Serbia, that everyone at their school adapts the school programme to these specialities. Another important thing, and what Mr. Gašo Knezevic was talking about, is leaving out the results, or as it is said, the outcome of what should result in schooling. Who is afraid of it in Serbia and why the government today is afraid to determine what is produced by the system of education, what teaches in Serbia produce. What they were afraid of, I don't know what. It is very important that we get an answer today, which is why the law, which was established on the EU's recommendations, at the OECD's recommendations, at UNESCO's recommendations, is changing today in the Serbian Parliament. How it is possible to bring Serbia closer if we oppose recommendations from important international institutions. That is why I am not surprised when the minister expresses regret to the public of Serbia for having a problem communicating with representatives of the international community, because they are asking the same question as I am asking her here today in two minutes to twelve hours. I think Serbia's public deserved the minister to respond, as it leads Serbia into the EU, if it destroys a law that was adopted on the EU's recommendation in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4256	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milojub Albianic, Nadica Momirov and Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic together submitted the 20th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the 50th Amendment, and there are 57 more. The MPs of the SRS will endure, but I don't believe in you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, i.e. to delete in Article 72(2). The reason, point 2) of Article 72 is the adoption of a final and graduation exam programme. To understand and understand what this is about, Article 103 defines what the final exam is, and Article 103 reads: "After the final eighth grade, the student takes the final exam. The final exam assesses the degree of achievement of the prescribed (instead of outcomes) objectives and tasks of primary education and education. After having passed the final exam, the student receives basic education and education, which is to be issued a public document in accordance with the specific law. Based on the final exam, the student is entitled to enrolment in high school, in accordance with a special law. The final exam programme in elementary school is prescribed by the minister." I ask the question, and there is no minister here, there is an exminist, who has taken over the minister's role for the whole time of this discussion on the amendments to this law on education, and I did not find it in the government's explanation to defend the introduction of a final exam for elementary school students, and I did not hear it in the oral explanation of Minister Colic. After completing eight classes and grading all eight classes, students should be reassessed through an alleged final exam. If this is a formality to be prescribed by the minister with his programme, then why burden the students with this formality. This is the principled position of the SRS, and in that sense I believe that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4258	Replica, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4259	It is offensive to tell someone who is aware that there are certain positions that he is an exminist who has taken over as minister. It may sound good to someone, but I know that in life it becomes something of its own, and sometimes it takes political support, especially for some functions. One of these functions is this one of our MPs, or ministers. Then when parliamentary elections are discussed and the majority are given to the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic, I may be in combination to be a minister. Given my age, I don't think I'm going to accept that, because I think I might be for some counselor yet, but for a very active function no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4260	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is incorrect and incomprehensible to accuse the MPs working here because someone repented of being in a group that voted to extend the work today. Gentlemen, you're eighty of the ruling majority, if you're already angry, you're angry at your colleagues who just came here to vote that you're keeping the quorum here and to listen to what we're doing (from the O.R.), and you can't be angry with us anyway. You know that folk, who gets in a wheel, he's got a grip on his legs. You should have known who you were dealing with, you should have known which group of MPs were defending their amendments and you shouldn't have made a decision that you couldn't respect. We of the SRS do not allow the conclusion that we are obstructing this parliament. We submitted these amendments when we didn't even know you were going to work without a stop 20 or I don't know what time it was going to be until this is over. We have submitted amendments because it was our intention to help you edit this law, and what we are defending the amendments is that the Serbian government did not find it appropriate to accept the amendments of the SRS, which the minister is no longer here but is, so that she could possibly accept an amendment on the spot. We just want to convince you, and if one of your colleagues can't, then the rest of us are trying to help him, so maybe for some amendment and convince you to accept him. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware that the law we're discussing tonight is the most important law. It is a system law on the basics of education and education and every MP who understands this law lightly is irresponsible and does not do his job as expected. We certainly didn't, and that's why we approach this business this way. As for the amendment to Article 20, it reads: "Article 72 paragraph 1(2) is deleted", the SRS is principally against final prom exams. That's what we were saying when we proposed in Article 4 paragraph 1 erasing point 5. Of course, the government did not accept our amendment with an explanation that it did not comply with the concept of the law. We have submitted the amendment because it is in line with the concept of the SRS programme. We believe that the existence of final and prom exams is unnecessary, and hence the adoption of the final exam programme, as provided for in Article 72(2). We think that regular schooling shows the real success of a student and that no one has the right to control everything that was taught during school for one day or that, eventually, because of some failure in the day of the prom exam, someone cancels everything that the student learned during school and what was properly evaluated. We failed to convince the minister when we spoke of Article 4 of this law and amendment to Article 4, I see that we will not succeed now, but I urge fellow Members of Parliament to consider this amendment anyway. Believe that accepting this amendment would make all school children and all their parents happy, and I also say that this is the attitude of most educational workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4262	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) I would ask the MPs to hold really debates in particular and not to use a pay phone for party propaganda, because indeed of these five minutes it is often that more than half of us talk about something that is not the subject of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4263	Ladies and gentlemen, this story of mine may not be in line with this amendment, but to take advantage of the opportunity of Madam Minister's presence, I will still disappoint you. It is the conditions of primary school in the village of Vrbovno, it is the territory of the city of Belgrade, the municipality of Lazarec. The village of Vrbovo has more than a thousand inhabitants and a primary school that has no water, and the village also has no water; there are no conditions, no water, no heating, minimum conditions for education.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4264	Please, I just warned you, stick to the subject and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4265	It's about school conditions. I'd just like to recommend that Mrs. Colic go to that school, she's on a 35km highway towards Cačka. When Mr. Albianic showed up here and talked, you didn't say it like that. Gentlemen, only 10% of the G17 campaign during the parliamentary elections to separate and create conditions for education in all schools in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4266	Please, wait, I didn't give you my word. Please behave yourself, and once again I ask the MPs to stick to the subject, because we've been doing it for a long time, and we're wasting precious time on irrelevant things. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4267	I really want to tell you one more time that it's time for us to get back on the subject with respect. And how long will our Lazarets drivers be talking about school, my people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4268	Wait a minute, about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4269	Ladies and gentlemen, I've really held back so far, but I admit I can't take it anymore. Let me tell you, gentlemen on the right, the educational public is having fun with your stories and your gropes, the unprofessional public is laughing, and the professional public is disgusted. Believe me, what you're talking about really doesn't have any judgment of value. You're talking about how to cancel prom. It is in Serbian tradition that there is a final exam, there is a graduation, and it is for high school maturity exam students, and for those with a professional school, it is a test of professional training. So who are you my dears courting, so does that mean that those who can't finish graduation, that you're recruiting them for your voters now, so say it openly, is that your call for your presidential candidate to get the support of a repeater in Serbia? When you've had suggestions about some technical details, so come on, ladies and gentlemen, but talk about things that are unchangeable in Serbia and finally, most people here have a final graduation, I have a graduation, my kids have a graduation and they don't care about it. On the other hand, really, my dear gentlemen, come on like this, look again at what you wrote, look at your explanation; more than 50% of the reasons, you know what it says, it says -- it's the concept of the SRS. What have you convinced us, what kind of argument is that, what does that mean? If you're up for something and you're running for the Education Committee, then you have people who understand these things, and to convince them, there must be a convincing argument, not your program. That doesn't oblige us, thank God, and neither will the voters. They're alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4270	National MP Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4271	Since they started to exclaim and say some offensive words here, belittle MPs, get into the profession of who's done what, I think it's one level of ruling, let me say, maybe class and gentlemen, and who are probably distinguished experts, maybe being educated somewhere abroad, maybe not. From what I can see, a lot of them have traveled the world for the last three years, they may have seen a foreign country, but it's embarrassing to talk here about some categories that aren't even on the agenda. If that made up the opposition, everyone would jump, you even started to whistle here, to yell, to yell, if you didn't have the nerve to do, what the government would do, simply, the government would fall and it would be over. Here, professionally, let me tell you a part, part of the idea and concept of the SRS about school reform. This is the title: "Acceptive exams," yes or no. We are absolutely against traumatic, and even unusual criteria for enrolment in high school, working in special conditions, the possibility of forming only these items, paid teachers alike by passing the exam on the entrance exam. If the school evaluation really were complex, comprehensive, and regular, then there would be an adequate amount of knowledge and skills behind each grade, so that it would not be necessary to reassess the estimated knowledge. The entrance exams for high school are actually a form of re-evaluation of already rated knowledge. The very act of admission exams is proof that high school teachers do not believe that the knowledge of candidates who apply for enrolment is correct and objectively evaluated at a lower level of schooling. The criteria are not really uniform, so very often behind the same assessment there is a different scope and quality of knowledge. This does not mean, however, that reception exams, which often leave traumatic consequences for children's success due to their character and accompanying circumstances. Instead of the very expensive admission exams, for which the state singles out a million marks each year, it is far better and fairer within teaching collectives to develop and implement a system of objective evaluation of student success achieved, starting with the results of teaching and psychological science. There's a little secret here for you. You'll have time to get to know this more, but let me just say it specifically. Those who go to some high school graduations, that's a sign of the time they lived in. For example, I see one fellow MP, back in 1992, when I was a federal MP, I saw him in some party, I don't know which one, and today I see him in the other, and tomorrow I see him in the third. I don't know what he's an expert on, but if he's an expert in education and education and the teaching class he's conducting, as he's changing parties, then it's really hard for this government he supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4272	Please, Natasa Jovanovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, no amendment submitted by the SRS and our MPs individually on behalf of the parliamentary group has an explanation that contains such a finding that the amendment has been submitted only in accordance with the concept of the Serbian Radical Party. These are really very professional, brief and clear explanations. When they spoke about it, Mr. Cetrovic and counterpart Milan Veselinovic took into account not only the principled entanglement of us Serbian radicals regarding the final and reception exam, as a psychological moment for the child, when, in one day, it may possibly be because of any circumstances that the four-year-old work has been analyzed. We spoke based on the experience of children themselves, parents who went through all of this and above all educational workers. Let us – given that our schooling has had various combinations and experiments, from Shuvar's targeted education through various communists, before that, education reforms, through wandering and non-compliance, to this concept of the dossal defeated regime that we did not agree with, having all of this in mind, and above all, the fact that both in the professional public and in the discussions on the subject, since when there has been a multiparty in Serbia, we have said that or not final exams, yes or no admission exams – that it is with us, and let us believe that this is our democratic right, and we believe that most citizens and therefore we have submitted this amendment, we have overcome the view that this should not be done. On the other hand, some people who spend a lot of time in education, and just that 14th - century apocryphal, which I mentioned almost two hours ago, can also refer to some individuals who work in education and have not learned anything, does not mean and does not give them the right to speak on behalf and those who are parents, and those who have other knowledge, and those who have had that knowledge or insight, and not by working in education. Therefore, the SRS will continue to advocate, and each of its MPs, for what we consider to be better in practice and do not tell us that it has always been right and that it has always been acceptable, for educational workers and for children in Serbia, what any government proposes. Experiences change. The fact is that anyone who's serious and responsible, worked or didn't work in education, wants us to have a modern education and education system. It warns us that we need to create all possibilities for children, especially those who, during the four years of their schooling, show that in some cases they are more, in some less, able to show what they know through the evaluation of their work and their knowledge in a four-year period. It is our right as MPs and parties who have their own educational concept, and not only educational, and in all segments of our society the program, which hasn't changed in 14 years, to advocate something and hold in principle this attitude, because again I repeat that many times through the various round tables, both on state television and in other media by MPs and individuals who presented themselves as professional public-led discussion on this subject. We have always held the position that what Mr. Cevrovic is asking for with his amendment is right and we will always be in that position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4274	Mr. Zoran Krasic, then the MP, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4275	Against this amendment, the SRS had the opportunity to hear two arguments today. One came from a government official with a sign of "master's letter" and we just had a chance to hear from one MP who's in education, who says he passed the graduation exam, which is why other children should have the final exam. So that there's no confusion among those citizens who are following this transmission, if there's someone who's following this transmission, I'd just say that thanks to the Dossian government last year, we had another new category, which is repair reception. Yeah, yeah, repairs checkout. You remember. Be sure, if you look at the demographic movements in Serbia, that every year we will be in a position to just realize that there are much more empty spaces in our schools, because there are no students, unfortunately. We are facing this today, and you can be sure that we will be faced these years. I understand your nervousness for making a mistake with the duration of this debate, but listen, because this is a really serious question and you can understand what's serious. It is a serious issue, because there will be empty spaces, there will be educational workers, there will be empty wards, there will be a new network of school institutions in Serbia, there will be a lot of reductions. And our experience as a parent, most of them in this room are parents, and with this final and this entrance exam, so no matter what the entrance exam is, it shows that some strange things happen. What we advocate is to improve the system of evaluation during this regular schooling until the final year, and to reach the objective state and knowledge and abilities of a child. Let us respect their demands and wishes for a continuation of education and focus on it. And leave those master letters and the main argument -- I passed the prom exam, so if I was, I didn't miss anything, so be it with my kid. There won't be a next year's rush on these schools of ours. That's for sure. And the negative phenomena were happening around the admission exams, you know, so the ministers had to dictate the tasks and keep them secret, because there was a lot of stuff going on in those admission exams. We strive to improve this system of evaluation to the final exam, to the final year, and to reach an objective knowledge of what the child is capable of and what it can continue, respecting his wishes. In that sense, you should understand these amendments to the SRS. And they don't announce a correctional reception, correctional final, and who knows what all the correction exams are, there's just not a single correction exam for the education minister, for the directors and for the registration committees. Well, don't fight people from education for those finals and admissions exams. You take care, you open up space to some private schools, and not all private schools with good intentions when it comes to our children. See what private schools some former ministers work in and see who's getting ready to open a few schools. When you realize that, then you will understand that no one should be distracted by final and preparatory exams.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4276	Replica, please, MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4277	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear Mr. Krassic, I know you were the minister. The right to tell you, you even look like a minister. However, there was another minister before you, and he, right to tell you, brother, doesn't look like anything, I don't know if anyone will believe him to be the Deputy Minister of Education, and he's hardly a deputy minister. That's why we had that condition. And now, my dear sir, I have not cited as a crown argument for the final exams that I have the final exam, the graduation, and me and my children. No, it's just a picture of the state of education in Serbia, that it's a tradition. And if you're interested in the main reason, I said, but since you're pretending to be Tosha, as if you didn't understand, I'm going to have to repeat it for those I didn't tell, and it's possible that they don't know, if they're not pretending to be Toshe. So the main reason is that it is not everywhere, in the whole country of Serbia, the same educational standard, which every grade in the country of Serbia, the same level, four or five, does not have the same specific weight, we do not have the same quantity of calling behind it. For this reason, there is a need for the legislator to introduce the final prom exam and to give that grade due to someone being high. And, finally, I won't mention the place, but I know -- a few years ago, when my son took his entrance exam at the FON, that twelve graduates, graduates, the Vulcans, had even negative grades, negative points, and that they had a serious final exam probably wouldn't have happened. I don't mention the place. I'm just mentioning the appearance. I assume you're familiar with the reasons for that. If it's about elementary school, we can even honor that little prom, that final exam, that it's special, that it's going to be recognized as a high school ticket, as a reception exam. And when it comes to occupation, there is no profession, my dear Mr. Krasic, without a master's letter. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4278	Thank you. The People's MP, Krstic. Just a moment, here is MP Veroljub Stevanović - according to the Rules of Procedure. Well, Zoran Krasic - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4279	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are advertising the Rules of Procedure, Article 100 of Item 2 - MPs must address each other with respect. Gentlemen of the Radicals, you do not address us for ten hours with respect. Here's why. You don't think we understand anything. And, then, a dozen of you about every amendment comes here and tells the same story. Believe me, one, two is enough to understand you very well. Your wish is, given that you know that... It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, sir. .. The regular session ends Saturday at midnight, so that this law is not passed. And you're about for the state to remain as it is now, to be in the strength of Satan's old law. That's your wish. And you say that this one is no good, that this one is better, but that it should be left to adopt it this summer, and you know that if it is adopted this summer, that the re-law will not be passed the school year that follows. So why are you insulting us? So, who are you talking to? If you give the amendment, so you want to fix the law, if the government doesn't accept it, then you explain it here - to whom? The MPs, to adopt him. No, folks. What are you doing for marketing reasons? So you insult us. If you're talking to us, it's enough for the two of you to say it, and we'll understand. If you speak to the people, he is also smart, and the people will understand him after two explanations. If you're talking to yourself, you could have done it by the gentlemen at the Parliament Club. So don't insult us. Respect us, you're doing marketing in the squares. There's no place here, and you can officially say you're not up for the adoption of this law. It's a fact and don't all explain, understand and enlighten the workers who do it, but I really don't understand everyone else. So continue, we will endure -- it is not disputed, and this law will be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4280	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4281	I also refer to Article 100 of Item 2 which speaks of dignity. (Glass - theme. Well, it's the Rules of Procedure, the breach of Rules of Procedure is a subject, so don't throw it away. You asked for this debate. It is not good for you to teach the messengers what their obligations are, for you are in the dignity of the messengers and of the National Assembly. This is the parliament, that's the story, that's where different opinions are faced. If you suggested that this debate take as long as it takes to consider all the amendments, then you really had to keep an eye on the moment you proposed, about the length of the debate. You must have put this Parliament's dignity at risk. We accepted that, because most of you have made up your mind. But I must warn you that the SRS has accepted this bill in principle and given several dozen amendments aimed at improving this text. The SRS was not against this bill. There's something wrong with you. And something else, you know, the dignity of the National Assembly is insulted that way when you don't mention a man, and he's supposed to be recognized. When I talked about the final and prom exam, I didn't even think about the discussion of the fifth or sixth MP who spoke before me. But here some strange criteria happen. I know you're nervous. Last year around this time, I've been praying to the DOS government during a state of emergency, so I said, "Don't hate it, get rid of fear, you'll make a mistake." They didn't believe me. That's what happened. And I'm telling you, don't be nervous, this is parliament, this is talk, this is where the arguments are made for and against. We have made arguments as to why we believe that these two exams should be abolished, that there are no more, what follows, what threatens us, pointed to the need that one MP just stated. We're against the fact that the five is worth a lot of different things in Pirot and Belgrade. We're gonna make that five the same strength. That's where you try to work it out, and then there won't be any repairs. Don't make room for some private schools that aren't well-intentioned. Take this seriously. Who doesn't take these amendments seriously and this discussion seriously, makes a terrible mistake. Get out of the EPP at one o'clock in the morning. You don't need to criticize. Play this game you specified.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4282	Thank you. National MP Svetislav Krstic, please follow him, Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4283	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have no intention of extending this discussion, but I must say one thing and propose to the honourable colleagues of the SRS to withdraw this amendment that requires that graduation be abolished, because it could cause unsightly consequences for generations of high school graduates. When it comes to enrolment in colleges, we all know that this year, a generation of seniors will vote in the elections for the first time, just on June 13th. It would not be good if they, if adopted by any chance of your amendment, couldn't enroll in college, because under the applicable Higher Education Act, someone who finishes high school could apply and enroll in college, had to have a high school graduation. If we were to adopt your proposal now, then we would be in a disproportion between this law that we are now discussing and the applicable Higher Education Act. That would be a big problem, and that would put children in danger who are now graduating if they couldn't get into college. I don't think anyone wants to, and that's why I suggest you withdraw this amendment because you could have unspeakable consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4284	The word is made by the MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4285	I don't think Mr. Krstic is right. Because if I understand this law correctly, these provisions are only in force in 2006. So, then there will be reception and qualification exams, and by then this provision would apply, according to which final and graduation exams would be a ticket to enroll in a higher level of education. I wanted to take a brief look at what the idea of the SRS was, and that's the abolition of the final and prom exams. Namely, this bill, as well as the existing one, provides for a final exam in primary school and graduation and final exams in secondary schools. I need to make some arguments, which is why we're up for it. Who worked at school, especially in high school, is a witness to how these exams are done. At the end of high school, the student pulls out a certain topic from which he is due to take that prom or final exam, gets a few days to do it, goes home, finds a teacher who will do it, mostly for money, and then after a few days he goes back to school with his work done. The teacher from whose subject the work, reviewing the work, with several questions of exam students and, given the criteria that are extremely low, evaluates it and it is his graduation or final exam. Now I wonder how a college ticket is going to be such an exam, how we're going to evaluate that exam, when we're all aware of how it's done. It is also unclear what the final exam will look like in elementary school, from which the elementary school student, or eighth grade, will be doing the exam, from which class. How he's going through this one object to sublime the full knowledge he's acquired for eight classes of schooling. I understand that there are problems and they need to be discussed. The problems are non-equal criteria, which are five in Pirot, and five in Baja Basta and five in Belgrade are not the same. These are real problems, but the ministry must find a solution there, how to level criteria, how to value knowledge in the same way in Piroth, Baja Basta and Belgrade. Whether this will be controlled and evaluated through the competition of students from certain classes or through exams, tests that the Ministry would prepare for all students in the Republic, that is the problem of the Ministry. The Ministry has to find a solution here. There is also a need to pay attention to the professional training of teachers. And they have to perfect themselves so that the criteria are at least roughly uniform, that we don't step away from school to school drastically. However, speaking of training teachers, I ask the Ministry, or competent educational authorities, to do so in a different way, not to do as the previous minister did. Here is a big book, called – catalogue of professional training programs for school 2003 and 2004. In this catalogue there are nearly 400 programmes accredited from the competent centre that could be implemented through seminars during this school year. Of these unfulfilled 400 programmes, nearly half relate to democratisation and school democracy. If we consider that the previous minister here has also said that between secondary schools over two-thirds of them are vocational schools, it is bad that there are only two programs in this programme for professional training of teachers in vocational schools. The authors of these programmes, performers, are mostly NGOs, from open society funds, through others, there are over 50 different, making domestic, foreign NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4286	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Duke, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4287	It is not true that the authors and performers of these programs are foreigners. A competition was called for for each program. All interested could report to the competition, both authorically and performingly. Very often, international competitions were involved, therefore, in an international tender. The independent commissions have made a decision under the previously established criteria, i.e. the credit system. Most often there were winners of some people from NGOs, but because since 1990, everything quality there has come together and alternative education has been made there, while the state has not paid any attention to education, but has been sucking money out of education to invest it in other things, which I suppose were also needed. It is, therefore, competitions, competitions, competitions, and competitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4288	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. I understand Mr. Knezevic. He probably loses his concentration after all these hours of debate and this kind of participation, but the fact that everything quality from the educational process has been combined with NGOs since 1990, I'm not going to say the most harsh word, but an absolute untruth. Quality professors were also in the education system at the university. Belgrade University was one of the most famous universities, I won't say in Europe, but in Southeast Europe for sure. Therefore, of course you wanted to stimulate those who funded you and gave you funds, you invested funds in NGOs in various ways. This is where we criticized it, when you budgeted huge funds, in every ministry, for NGOs. That's where you used nice use to turn money and wash money through NGOs, and that's why they got the program.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4291	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have entered the last day of the regular session. I'm really surprised that this much impatience for such an important law that we're really discussing and bringing into a slightly unserious atmosphere. But the law itself is named as the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law, it is already said, and it could be said that it is a new law. There is the impression that so much has been fundamentally changed in haste and with only one intention -- that all that was reforming in the proposed 2003 law is annulled. The amendment to Article 21, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, refers to a proposal to delete the member. In fact, in Article 74. The law defines educational work in schools with home and home and way of adopting a educational programme, where it is said to be brought by institutions in accordance with the general and specific basics of the educational programme. Proposer - The Ministry is members of 21. The draft law amending the law proposed that the words "general and special" be deleted. It's simply inexplicable, and I don't see any reason why a member like this is proposed in amendments to the law. If we go back, to the amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group about everything that has violated the reform concept of the current law, then it would only be possible to understand that by reviewing this law, someone simply crossed these two words, which in some way associate with what were the general and specific basics of the school programme, this is about the general and specific foundations of the educational programme, so there is a lot of reason to believe that the national council will see all the advantages of the existing law. Finally, after all the outstanding arguments we have given in the explanation of the amendments submitted by the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, the minister, who apparently had little patience to put up enough effort to propose a good bill on amendments and amendments to the law, together with us in these late hours trying, not least, to follow our arguments. I'm just waiting to hear how they're going to explain the collapse of that concept that's clearly reforming in the current law. If in the first position the reasons for the adoption of such a law are said to be that this adaptation to the existing conditions or more clearly formulated, giving up all the reform concepts offered by the current law, then it is indeed a strange degree of lack of courage in the government, above all, and in the relevant ministry, to go into fundamental reforms in such an important segment as education. We have little reason to believe that this government and other segments of its work will follow one reform course. I am sorry that we, not only as MPs, but also as citizens, have all the views on the system of education, we have a lot of objections, and we are constantly talking about how the education and interest system is in progress, and when it comes time to decide directly how to install these objections and our views into a law which, unlike some others, has far-reaching consequences, then we act as the majority of the congregation does. (President: You're out of time, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Chairman, I'm done. The obstruction is considered if you submit an amendment, if you explain it, and it does not consider it unserious if the same congregation majority submits a number of amendments, probably considering improving the law, and then for what reasons it gives up on these amendments, it pulls them back, saves time. It is truly extremely unserious in front of Serbian citizens, to look at the law, use your professional services, submit amendments, and then chat in halls, drink coffee and give up these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4292	Is anyone else answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4293	Mr. Vice President, I apologize, but because of the corner where I'm sitting, you haven't seen me answer. Tonight we all have a problem together because Miss Secretary can't handle this debate. I'm very sorry she's not here again. But it is a great shame, because it is the obligation of an authorised promoter to follow the debate of MPs and it is one of the good illustrations of what kind of relationship to the subject... (President: Please move to the amendment, Mr Petrovic. The theme is that the Minister is not here. So, the theme of this amendment is to abandon the general foundations of the school programme as a whole or as a document that looks at the overall education and objectives of our education and education system. Of course, when there are no general grounds, then there is no specific basis for the school program. This is the point and that is why DS MPs are dealing with these amendments, because this is a key point and a key part of the law which, in fact, paints what is the essence of the system that was established by law in 2003. My intention was to ask the Minister a few questions again, and I hope that we will eventually succeed in her final presentation to get an answer to those questions. The abandonment of general grounds results in a lack of flexibility in the system that will be established by this law and which would give freedom to educators to create school programmes. Again, I ask the Minister what she is afraid of, which is why she doubts the ability of educational workers in Serbia to conceive or make school programmes, according to the opportunities in which these schools exist and in life, in the places where teaching takes place. The abandonment of outcomes, i.e. how to measure what students have learned, in the beginning assumes that there is a sense of doing such measurements and is a deviation from the school systems that exist in the EU. What is also one of the important questions I would like to ask here tonight is why Miss Minister, after much persuasion by even coalition partners, has agreed to return the foreign language as a university teaching class since the first grade of primary school and to have Ms. Minister explain her suspicion of ability, and here comes Miss Minister, in the ability of students in Serbia to start learning a foreign language at six or seven years of age. I would like here both to the MPs and the public to give an explanation on which scientific knowledge is a well-founded view that children in Serbia are not capable enough to learn a foreign language of six or seven years, depending on when their compulsory education begins...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4294	Mr. Petrovic, I'd like to ask you to return to the amendment. What you're saying is not the subject of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4295	I know you, Mr. Angelkovic, are an educator, but you're not focused enough at this time, so you can't follow what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4296	I follow, I have a law ahead of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4297	Of course, at the very end of this exhibition, something that is quite compatible with all the questions I have asked, and the issue is raised in a somewhat earlier debate, as it is possible that, apart from Albania, only in Serbia, compulsory education will last eight years, when not only in any European Union country, but in any European country other than Albania, that compulsory education is not less than nine or ten years, and how then the government leads Serbia into the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4298	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4299	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, even though by one o'clock in the morning, and I don't even know what the date is anymore, we didn't get an explanation, according to Article 221. Rules of Procedure, why this law is on the agenda of an emergency procedure, we continue the debate in the hope that we will be able to convince you that this law, or the amendment and addition of the Law, has serious failures. In that regard, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 22. The bill, with regard to the position that standards of knowledge, skills for accreditation of training and training programmes are prescribed by the minister. Accreditation is a democratic procedure whereby the predetermined criteria determine the value of a programme and give it permission to use it. What's going on with the amendment and the supplement? The word "accreditation" is abolished. And what is it replaced by? It's replaced by the word "prescribed." So much for democracy, institutions, procedures and professionalism. What does he want with that attitude? Standards of knowledge, skills and competence for accreditation of professional training programmes with these changes are prescribed by the minister, only by him. We all advocate in our programmes, as well as you respected gentlemen, for the democracy of approach to programme creation, for the highest level of expertise, which is particularly potent for an area that is a priority for all of you in your programmes, which is an education programme. These key democratic words, standards and accreditation, are being lost from this member of your law, are being lost in general from this amendment and the addition of the law. I repeat, they are replaced by the word "prescription" completely imperative, completely beyond any form of democracy. I'm finishing my presentation and on the basis of Article 82(2), I'm expressing my doubts about the existence of a quorum at this point, exactly one hour after midnight. Please check the quorum in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4300	What amendment were you talking about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4301	Mr. Vice-President Petrovic warned you that you had a lower concentration, which is understandable compared to the time this session is being held, but I was talking about an amendment to Article 22, so that you listened a little more carefully you could have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4302	What you said, that amendment, concerns the proposal to erase that attitude, not what you said. I ask the MPs, both these in the O.R., and those who drink coffee, to accept the proposal and to determine the quorum. I thank the MP, Mrs. Snezani Lakicevic, for the proposal to establish the quorum, because I realize that in one hour we have a quorum to work with. Is there anyone who's answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4303	In one night at a time, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the famous member of 100, once again. This is already the fifth or sixth amendment of distinguished colleagues from the DS, and the amendment promoter is gone. Amendment promoters submit amendments, try to fix this law and allegedly seek some answers, allegedly from the promoter, from the minister, and are not there to listen to those answers. Dear colleague, Mr. Petrovic, has asked questions here and complains that the minister does not have, and when the minister comes to answer him, he is gone; here he is, gone. This story is repeated throughout the evening, so distinguished colleague Lakicevic-Stojačić and does not know what amendment he is talking about when he is not talking about his own, but about someone else's amendment. I think it's pointless. I think we should really have our dear colleagues here to explain their amendments and listen to the minister's answers. That would be the right thing to do and that would be the way to do it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4304	Replica, MP of the people Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4305	Dear gentlemen, unless Mrs. Minister sits all the time at the meeting, it is entirely justified that we, according to our abilities, condition, physical preparation, which is unlike you in excellent form, are being replaced in this House. By the way, we're trying to take turns taking part in this debate. Dear Mr. Ristivoevich, I'm allowing you to replicate again and thank you for mentioning me, so let me answer you. Of course, I know what the amendment is about, it refers to article 22 of the amendment and the addition of the Law, and it says it is deleted; and what I was just talking about is deleted, the right to accreditation is deleted, and it introduces an imperative possibility for the minister to determine everything, just as she thinks, with the discretionary right that no one else can influence it. Of course you understand, that's why I'm talking, because if you had realized earlier, this wouldn't have been in article 22 of the amendment and the addition of this law. Also, the concentration of each and every one of us has been reduced, but I think it is a fundamental courtesy to listen, because surely none of the DS members, and the GSS from the DS parliamentary list, speak in their minds, but we are responsible for every word spoken for this assembly speaker, a brother-rounded law that has fully met the challenges of reforms and in line with all European standards, which you are trying to bring down this evening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4306	I think we should move on. Replica, but you've caused a replica; you've caused a replica, you have no right to a word. Let's keep going on about the amendments. I ask all MPs to try to work on the amendments without using less of an opportunity for replication and questions that are not relevant and relevant to this law. Is there anyone else reporting in accordance with Article 22? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4307	This proposal amends and complements the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System has consistently rejected the word "accreditation". I don't know the real motive, because the term "accreditation" is also used by the current ministry structure often, but at other levels of education. Let's just say, it's often said that college accreditation and so on. I don't know why a foreign word is allowed on a higher level, if it's a side, and at a lower level, we're taking it down. Either we turn it off or we don't. College accreditation is one process of assessing the value of colleges, licensing, the same as accreditation of other institutions' programmes, and the same procedure. So I don't see at all why this consistent rejection of the concept of "accreditation" from the concept of "system base."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4308	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. He has the word National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4309	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, good morning. As regards the amendments I have tabled on behalf of the DS Parliamentary Group to Article 23, this is the following: the amendment that we have submitted returns the law, even if in this article, to the original state, and concerns the reintroduction of general and special curricula on the basis of which individual schools adopt individual school programmes and on which individual curricula are later defined. Why does this matter? If you have noticed, Article 23 defines that I am the general basis of preschool programme, everything else is significantly changed and defined at the level of curricula, and then allows schools to adopt individual school programmes. And let me remind you that the curricula is very strictly defined and prescribed, and that total creativity is lost, the flexibility that the previous member of the law has defined, when general and special school programs for individual classes have just been passed. We, gentlemen, live in the 21st century, in which the most important value is competition, creativity, flexibility, the possibility of individual schools defining the programme, among other things, and showing themselves on that particular field. If you go with a strict provision that is a unique definition of teaching programs, and beyond that you allow schools to individually bring school programs, then I ask you, where each other's competition is between individual schools, where the quality of individual schools is imposed, where there is creativity that individual schools will show and thus recommend themselves to students. This, of course, does not surprise us, given that in the opening statement, it is explained that the reforms proposed by this law put the teacher at the heart, not the student, which we think is completely wrong. Because putting on one who is a means and who has the basic task of bringing up new generations and allowing individuals to develop, not the development of a collective spirit, which was a characteristic of all previous education systems, is something that is completely wrong and is something that cannot be in line with modern trends, and I said for a while, that's competition, flexibility, and besides competition and flexibility and creativity. This certainly does not surprise us, considering that this is fully in line with the proposed suspension of the five-year license of teachers, or those who are here to educate our children. I am afraid that in this way we will lose the possibility of that very generic quality in individual schools, which was, among other things, the basis of the previous requirement of the education law, i.e. previously defined reforms. I say once again, if we don't accept the postulate of competitiveness, postulate flexibility and also the possibility of individual participants on this market, and that's the knowledge market and the education market, to show their own creativity, then we're not going to have any quality, and that's why we're proposing to be a member of 23. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System deletes, in order to restore this matter to its former, original state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4310	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4311	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 23. The draft law regulates the competence of the National Council and the power and competence of the Minister. The competences and powers of the National Council shall be taken into account that it lays down the basics of pre-school programmes, curricula and primary and secondary education and education programmes and the basis of the educational programme, and the programmes of final and senior exams, special programmes in the field and pre-school education, vocational training and training, on a proposal from the Council, shall be prescribed by the Minister. Consistent with the SRS programme and amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, by amendment to Article 23. The SRS has proposed that final and prom exam programmes be abolished. There have been remarks here that the grades are not the same in Pirot, Belgrade or in Subotica, which can be true. However, this imbalance of evaluation and knowledge between schools cannot be corrected by a final or a Matru exam. I'm sure the final and final exam won't fix it. The remarks that the high school prom exam is also a test of knowledge, as the knowledge check for high school students can only be in the process of work. So the knowledge they have will show in the process of work, not in the prom exam. As far as high school kids are concerned, they're finishing high school to study. They're going to show their knowledge that they've acquired, high school knowledge, in college. Certainly, the prom and final exam will not correct the illogicality that the evaluation criteria are not the same in Pirot, Belgrade or in another Serbian city. As for the authorities involved in the adoption of plans and programmes for education and education, the promoter pointed out that decentralisation was carried out, that the adoption of school programmes was left to school committees, and the school committees were elected by local self-government authorities. Just because the school boards bring in school programs, there's an inequality of the criteria, and that decentralisation that's actually going on is nothing but making big difference from school to school. Nothing will be achieved by dropping to the level of local self-government, that local self-government determines the school boards that will then adopt school programmes. The institutions shall represent expert bodies to assist the councils and the Ministry in establishing plans and programmes, and in particular final and prom exams programmes. These are the professional bodies formed by the government. The two executives are being created. On the one hand, you have the Ministry as executive authority within the government, and you have institutions as professional bodies that form a direct government. It's unclear why these organs are doubled, why they're being seduced by the government, if logically, they're being formed by the Ministry. If the Ministry needs expert assistance, it would be logical for the Ministry to create misleading and, in the Bill's proposal, the Centre for Strategic Development, the Centre for Development of Programmes and textbooks, the Centre for Professional Development of Employees, the Centre for Professional and Art Education and other Centres that can be established if found to be appropriate. In addition, the National Council, as a body elected by the Assembly, means a body responsible for the legislative authority, has the right to form and select its commissions and professional bodies, which will again assist the council in the adoption of plans and programmes for education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4312	Mr. Milajic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4313	It's not for me. Maybe it's for you, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4314	No, it's just coming to me, always, but it's almost a minute for you. People's MP Milan Veselinovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4315	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we see that anxiety is present, especially in those who have suggested that until the debate is over in particular, these amendments, but since we Serbian radicals approach this business professionally and as you can see from amendments to amendments, they make one continent and this applies to those who are not interested in this matter. That is why on many occasions I warn MPs who are not interested in this matter or who do not understand it to study the amendments of the SRS, so that in the end we have a vision of what we really wanted, what we want to improve our amendments. I used to say some data from the Ministry of Education, what it cost for reception and prom exams. I said it cost about a million marks at the time it was done, and now it can be translated freely into a million euros. It needs the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to invest a million euros to organise reception, i.e. prom and final exams. That's huge money. If we add anxiety, trauma, students and parents and other circumstances to this, there is really no basis for receiving exams, i.e. the current proposal to pass the final exam. I read some views of the SRS and recommendations when the Assembly established a commission at the level of the Republic to reform education and education, i.e. systematic reform at all levels. I said that at the time there were important experts in all profiles, professors, doctors, including Dr Vojislav Seselj, and when we Serbian radicals had a thorough recommendation on how to reform education, which would certainly satisfy Serbian citizens. Now because of those who know less about this area and those who are like predecessors, who warned the Ministry of Education and me as Deputy Minister of Education, the man I know that the resident has been in this congregation for a long time, I don't know if he's doing his job, but I need to read this so he can remember something that he knows what it's about. In fact, let's make a proposal which is why we're against the admission and the final exam. The selection of candidates for enrolment in high school should be based on a Siset of continuous and objective evaluation of students' achievement during primary schooling; a systematic study of the evolution in the bodies of the Ministry of Education and in the Pedagogical Psychological Service, for continuous professional assistance to primary schools: a serious approach to schools and pedagogical and psychological services to professional orientation, in order to ensure that the specific preferences and abilities of individuals who would be taken into account in enrolment of certain vocational schools; respecting the results of the professional orientation from the previous degree of education in the enrolment of schools for which special preferences are sought. It's about art and school with music education. I'm just going to add to this what this really means. This means that the Ministry of Education, through its pedagogical-psychological service, would conduct tests on subjects two to four times a year through their departments. This would be appropriate, it would be the right measure for teachers and students, how many teachers mastered the curriculum and the program, and how many students mastered the curriculum and the programme, and how many teachers invested themselves in this work and effort. Then there would be no such thing as giving grades, there would be no corruption in education. That would be the right solution to avoid this trauma that you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4316	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we return to Article 20 where we have already pointed to the concept of the SRS, which is not mentioned in our argument, but for us, the unacceptable explanation given by the Government and the resolution minister. The proposal to delete final and prom exams from Article 76 of the basic text of the law is not in line with the concept of this law. It is clear to us, but counterpart Milan Veselinović, as a longtime educator, someone who has experience in a specific environment, tried to convince you to accept this amendment to facilitate and ultimately give confidence to students, and to facilitate the job of teachers. This is very important because the entire system of education, as applied today, is more a trace of information than it can really be in the right way to value the knowledge of children through the four-year education of any education profile in high school. We believe that in one day, no matter what day it is, no matter what date, when a senior and final exam is passed, psychologically for a child is much easier not to carry out in such a way. Because continuous work, the way of evaluation, the approach of lecturers, teachers, school teachers must be much more careful, through what is the potential of each child individually, rather than the collection of knowledge from all subjects during the final exam. It is very important for other criteria in our school to be introduced as something that should be uncut. High moral values, in which a healthy society should rest, where children are educated, and in this way as responsible people, as a state and as a whole society, will make a much greater contribution to the development of our education and make it possible, through the acceptance of such an amendment, our concepts, which we have advocated for 14 years, since the existence of the SRS, to allow many more confidence in a new life, to start future generations. They will advocate during their schooling to individually value what they are trained to do and to choose an area that will interest them, to move on, or with a final high school education, or with the choice of some of the higher schools and universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4318	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4319	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to tell the story again about the final and prom exams. We've talked a lot, if you've figured it out - you've figured it out; if you haven't, we can't help you. I'd go back to that story about the criteria and the uniformity of those criteria in our schools. In order for all of this to work the way we imagined it, it's important that the evaluation criteria in schools are uniform. How can I even myself up? Educational authorities must establish standards to evaluate the level of knowledge and students in schools, as well as teachers. Whether it will be tests for the whole of the Republic, according to which students' knowledge will be valued, and hence the evaluation, whether it will be competitions from individual subjects, and through them to see where these criteria differ and how much, or something third -- remains at the Ministry to decide. It's also about perfecting teachers. There's no need to make a mistake made by the previous minister. Here, once again that book, there's 400 programs. A good part of them, over 100, refers to democratisation in schools, or -- schools for democracy, as it is already called. The authors are mostly NGOs. I have to replicate to Mr. Knezevic, there are plenty of programs here whose authors are foreigners. Here, the example works, the program is called - Education for Democracy, right in everyday life. Authors of the program – authors and men among them – certain Eliza from America, David from Japan, Zarko Puhovski from Croatia, Marin Mrčela from Croatia, Dubravka Miljković from Croatia. No one from Serbia is. Then, programme contractors: Women in Black – Serbia, Forum for Freedom of Education – Croatia. Another example, the program is called - That school smells like culture. Organizations supporting the programme - Educational Forum of Serbia, Friends of the Children of Serbia, Natural-Mathematic Faculty in Kragujevac, Eco-centre Kragujevac, G17 Plus, Office in Kragujevac. There's a lot of these programs here. The former minister said there was a tender, so people responded to the tender and received accreditation. I know that people have answered these tenders, who have been in the profession for years, in education, educational supervisors, or what you call them now – counselors, people who have had something concrete to offer, but have not received accreditation, have not passed. The NGOs, the Soros Fund and others who invested money to get DOS into power and you had to make it up to them for all of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4320	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4321	Mr. Jovanovic, I didn't say for a moment that there were times when strangers won. I said, where they participated, that the tender was in principle international. I'm sorry someone else, who signed up for the same contest, didn't win. Believe me, I wasn't involved in the work of those committees. That's what experts did. Imagine if the drugs were accredited or licensed without being examined by experts, whether they were healthy or not. It is not the job of the minister, who in my case was a lawyer, and in the case of Mrs. Colic, a professor of Philology, that he gives accreditation. That's what experts do. That's what I meant to say, that I'm sorry that the accreditation was thrown out because of that expertise she assumes. I also wanted to warn all of us, and it seems to me that all of us deserve to win Infantile Medals. It seems to me like we're about ten years old or maybe something more during the puberty period. This can't be done because 24.00 is over, the time of the vampire law is over, we're too late to pass it. Maybe we can continue tomorrow's work and bring it back tomorrow. I don't see how it has to be done today. As far as I'm concerned, I'll stay as long as I can. The time of work of this assembly was determined not by the opposition, but by the parties in power. They voted and I ask that this infancy, as we look in the eyes of those who look at us, be attributed to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4322	The word is Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4323	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't know if we should delete the entrance exam and whether there should be a final exam. A lot of people think the entrance exam should be canceled. It's a party program and they have rights to it. Personally I think it's the entrance exam of selectivity and it's normal to exist, as it's normal that there's a prom, and she's still a maturity test. Why do I think it's necessary for our circumstances to have an entrance exam? Because schooling criteria aren't the same in all environments. I had the opportunity to see, as a parent, that more people on the side of Kragujevac enter a certain school than I can enroll Kragujevci, for the simple reason that the criteria of education in Kragujevac high school and Kragujevac elementary schools are much stronger and more quality than in some other environments. Then you get into a situation where your kid can't go to school. I accept an absolute party program, I also accept criticism, but what's good to say here, in what way and how is it meant to make the right selectivity and bring that part of the program out, so that we can compare it to this part where we think we need to set up a preliminary exam. We think graduation is still a maturity test. I am also sure that if there was an entrance exam here in parliament, I believe that a good number of MPs would not pass the entrance exam. I also think that, if you took a graduation, a maturity exam, in the way that certain things are exposed by certain MPs, you wouldn't even pass a maturity exam. I think that, in some ways, we're arguing about some normal things, and I think that it's all unnecessary and that we need to support what's good, and at the very end of the line to criticise what's not good and find a common solution to improve the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4324	Thank you to the MP Vladan Vucicevic. Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4325	DS – Boris Tadic submitted... Be kind enough to warn the MPs, since we are working on the request of the ruling coalition, and now it is 1.40 in the morning, to behave politely, because they failed to secure the quorum on Friday and Monday, but we sat here for six hours and waited for you to be in parliament, so that we could do according to your laws that you have submitted to the urgent procedure. Therefore, I ask you to be polite as the MPs try to improve their amendments by making an extremely bad proposal to amend and supplement the Education Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4326	I ask MP Snezana Lakicevic to move on to the amendment, and the MPs are correct in 1.40.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4327	First, I ask you to warn the MPs that they are being polite, and then I will move on to the amendment. DS - Boris Tadic submitted an amendment to Article 23. The proposal for a law in which Article 76 adds Article 2 which reads – The basis of the pre-school programme, curricula and programmes, primary and secondary education in the languages of national minorities is prescribed by the Minister on the proposal of the National Councils of National Minorities. We believe that this position 2 is extremely significant and that there is an unwarranted consultation and the right of national minorities to define the basics of education in the languages of national minorities. To remind you, the federal law established national councils, in order to allow equal participation according to European standards and to meet the needs of members of national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the omnibus which has transferred certain responsibilities to the AP Vojvodina has also transferred competences in relation to the education of national minorities, and therefore, given that national councils in positive legislation are getting more and more powers in other areas, such as the issues of founding rights in the votes of national minorities and other areas, we believe that it would be of paramount importance on such an important issue to consult and members of national minorities. We therefore propose that national councils in this area have exceptional importance, because otherwise we will act against the human rights statutes and violate the fundamental rights guaranteed by the European standards of members of national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4328	MP Shormaz is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member he's in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4329	Article 100 of the 1st and 2, that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. I don't think Mrs Stojacic did it before, addressing the MPs and criticising us for this decision to work until we're done today. We should all be familiar with some facts right now. Maybe someone can say it's not true, but Mrs. Stojacic was going to New Now today by the official car, as far as I know, the District Assembly, so she's going back, so maybe she can be fresh and rested and chewing up some gum. It won't bother her party, as the GSS dropped to 0.27% of Serbia's citizens' support after new research. And perhaps Mr. Aca Vlahovic is smiling, and he can warn us that we have made this decision ourselves. This is the Rules of Procedure, and this is the subject, and we have information that he was in Kragujevac tonight with Vlatko Rajkovic, with one of the union presidents from "Second", director of "Secondly". What they were doing there, I don't know, but when the Legion surrenders, Cole will turn himself in, so I don't know if he'll smile so well. And Mr. Dusan Petrovic may have gone to check on his business crime in the Assembly building, i.e. What the police are looking for him in the municipality building where he is president, and Vice President Boris Tadic, the DS presidential candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4330	The word is Mr. Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered the line because I was mentioned, although I could advertise the Rules of Procedure. Because if the previous MP came forward and said that the MPs were abusively treating other MPs in the National Assembly, because they said that most of them asked for an extension of the work and that last Friday and Monday we spent the entire 16 hours in the assembly not working because the ruling coalition obviously failed to agree, so they had to take extra hours to finally get the session started, then I really don't know how to qualify the presentation of the previous speaker. Unlike many, of course, I will say where I was and what I was doing, to answer Mr. Shormaz, and he could ask me in the hallway, and not bother other MPs, so he would get full information. Yeah, it's true I was in Kragujevac. Yes, it's true that I met not with leadership, but with my friends from the union and the "Dedicated" and "Car flags," because they wanted to see me. Yes, it's true that I told them that they should refrain from all possible strikes, that they should continue to work, that they should help this government to realize the restructuring program that we started, because it doesn't matter to us that it's worse for the state to get better. No, it's not, gentlemen. I'll be happy that this government, this Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Defence, are going to start a business on restructuring and dedicated industry, and the flag, and in this is my only message -- help, because the government wants to help you, this government. We don't have to throw everything that matters to our country, so that one, the other or the third party can score some political points, because, gentlemen, the price is very expensive. Therefore, anyone else interested in what I do during the day can ask me here in the lobby, not to bother the National Assembly and the People's MPs. Believe me, I am a citizen of this country, and above all, I want my country to move forward, to achieve successes, results, even if the DS is in opposition. The most important thing for us is the state's interest, and only then is our party's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4332	I'm asking you to go back to law review. The word has Snezana Lakicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4333	I thank Mr Shormaz for allowing us to use this pay phone more often than we planned and for allowing citizens of Serbia to see who abuses the pay phone, who impolitely addresses MPs, who does not have an elementary home education, who cannot respond to the challenge of the function of MPs in the Republic Assembly. Mr. Shormaz, I wasn't in the New Sad today. I've done more important things, including something that you've abolished, and since I haven't been there, I haven't been able to talk about that amendment, it's a center for education for people who need special social support. You're leaving it out of this law. I will remind you that Serbia currently has, it is not funny and it is sad if you laugh, 9,000 children who are educated in special schools because they are children with special needs. It does matter, because today, among other things, I spent because we managed to join this country in the Kennedy Foundation last year and to establish active sports for children distracted by development, which is one of the conditions for increased physical activity to reach a higher level of mental development. By eliminating this centre you avoid basic European tendencies, which is an inclusion, it is linking children distracted by development with children who are healthy and capable. You make these children a social problem, you isolate them and neglect them. Unfortunately, I do not have the support, obviously, of the ruling big-work coalition that we have tried to establish in the previous period and improve the conditions for the development of children, which I say officially has 9,000 and, unfortunately, this number is twice as large. Let me tell you something else. In the previous period, a large number of schools and programs have been updated. The other day, with the help of the foundations, not Soros, and even if Soros were humane, and you, and I hope you will, would also be humane, in Sombor, have restored and built a sports hall for 280 children with special needs and fully equipped, because we understand the importance of that. (A voice from the O.R.: We want to do the same thing.) Sir, you won't, because in law you don't recognize the difference between children who are able to attend school programs and children who have special needs. That is why they are called children with special needs, because they need special attention, special programmes to be set up and special provisions of the law set up. If you cancel the education center for people who need special social care, then you don't want to pay attention to it. (President: Time, Mrs. Lakicevic. One more thing, we haven't caused this much work for this long. We are only acting cautiously and treating the amendments we have made, according to a law that is good, and we are warning you that you did not allow this Parliament to work during the regular session. We don't mind, we'll work till morning, we'll work till tomorrow. It is in our interest that this law be good to us, as it is to you. So I see no reason to be nervous, I see no reason to be interrupted at all times and to cause unnecessary tension in this House. It's a serious law that you, not us, put in an emergency procedure. That's why he has special attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4334	The People's MP Petrovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4335	As you can see, Mr. Shormaz, I'm here. We could hear in two appearances of Mr. Shormaz the subject of his interest when the Law on Education and Education is on the agenda. For the first time, Mr. Shormaz gave an assessment of the upcoming presidential elections. Of course, he said something that had nothing to do with real life. We all know that in this assembly and the citizens of Serbia know that. This is where Mr. Shormaz showed interest in what was happening in Capco. Mr. Shormaz, I find it fascinating that you, as an MP of the National Assembly, are fully directed to what the minister of police is doing. So now I understand how you run the election campaign. Mr. Shormaz, then I can conclude, instead of setting up the beatings who beat people on October 5th for the Home Affairs Department's chiefs, as you have in Bogatić set up a beating for Home Affairs, use this pre-election campaign and do what you say with your political orders in Serbia's municipalities and cities. Mr. Shormaz, welcome to both your officers and yourself. We stand open, control whatever you want. This is good, fair and civilized power. What will happen to you in the 13th election, you'll see, you'll only smoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4336	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4337	Article 24. The draft law amending the Law on Education, the term "professional activity" has been changed to the term "adequate expert body". It is indeed to anyone who understands Serbian and is trying to interpret something similar to an incomprehensible message from the legislator on this matter. The relevant expert body is certainly a professional activity. This change can only mean that it opens up the possibility of manipulation at school level. If someone, for example, doesn't like the school program that brings in the professional activity, and the assumption is that he's professional and knows what he's doing, then someone else is going to invent that another body is an appropriate professional organ. This is already in a whole series of inconsistencies another inconsistencies and another possibility of politicising something that should be a professional body to implement programmes in the field of education. I will remind you that we have also pointed to these failures on the proposal of the National Educational Council, because we have pointed out the fact that the National Educational Council, according to the bill's amendment and addition, is elected by a delegate principle, in such a way that the authorised proposings do not propose exactly the number of experts to form the National Educational Council, and then propose it to the Assembly, and MPs should choose from the proposed candidates those who receive the largest number of votes. This is another manipulation, which can indeed lead to the election of those candidates to the national educational council who have the political support of the majority in the parliamentary assembly, which means that education will be under the direct dictatorship of the ruling political party, not the professional bodies, which self-awarely, responsibly and fully aware of the importance of education should decide which way children should be educated in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, this manipulation and this irresponsibility can also be applied to members of the 24th change, calling it a professional activity in the relevant expert body, a term that positive practice is not known to us or in the world either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4338	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Anita Beretic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4339	Honored Presidency, Honored fellow Members of Parliament, Amendment to Article 27. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education, which was submitted in the same text by Leila Ruzdic and Anita Beretic, refers to the proposal to delete this Article 27. The bill, which provides for Article 85 to be complemented by Article 3, which states that the pre-school preparatory programme is part of compulsory education and education for a nine-year period. Here and nowhere else mentions the nine-year duration of education as mandatory, simply completely unclear, and I don't see any rational explanation for this position being found in this article. It is clearly defined the duration of pre-school education and education and the programme in the completely unchanged text remains, the first two positions of Article 85 remain, I believe that this third position has been introduced with this formulation that it is a mandatory nine-year education, which is one small or trying to indicate it as in some future draft law or law amending and supplementing the law, a transition to nine-year duration of education. Already in the next article of the bill, Article 86, which states that nine years of education is being introduced as compulsory, i.e. primary education, and the text of the Bill of Law in Article 86 states that basic education and education lasts eight years. I believe that there is a reason for this amendment to be accepted and Article 27 to be deleted, thus missing Article 3 of Article 85.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4340	I thank the People's MP Markovic. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4341	In a desire to plant us cowardly eggs, the promoter in this article predicted that the preschool programme was the first or zeroth class of the programme, and thus the addition was given nine years of allegedly compulsory education. First of all, this country does not have the possibility of spatial, or less spatial, options for such a proposed solution than for all those solutions found in the 2003 law. Secondly, the question of staff; do you think education to the zeroth grade can be given to those people who are now working in the preschool program. These are two different categories of work, two different categories of education. Therefore, you have both personnel and spatial problems for reviving the position of the 3rd member of the 85th, and now member of the 27th amended law. So we are really in a serious problem, and all because of the need to show something differently than it is. The preschool program, before the law was passed, lasted three hours a day. We've found the means to extend to four hours a day and it's financed from state resources. It's the right thing to do for a preschool program. This extension and adaptation of their program is done for and cannot be used for zeros or prep, or whatever class you want. It's not education.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4342	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Andric. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4343	This discussion of ours, which takes so long, is the best proof that things are not mature in the minds and minds of the promoter. Instead of leaving the issue of the structure and the length of the programme to the National Educational Council, which it has only proposed and against whom, I have said a thousand times, DS - Boris Tadic has nothing and would vote for it, and then the National Educational Council will determine within the next two years – because there is time until something happens in the system, there is a time of two years, as long as the school programme of compulsory education, whether eight or nine years and what structure it will be, about 6 plus three, about five plus two, so there are different structures of school programs – that we should leave the people who are dealing with education, who are the most representative models in this country, that they decide what structure they will be, the promoter has brought us into a situation to do 20 hours of work, and we should make the structure of compulsory education, and the length of life and cycles. My lords, for those of us who are actually here because we are representatives of political parties, not because we are representatives of the profession and we are just some of us teachers of a different level, it's too big a job for us. Don't make us solve the indecisive. Don't make us solve without knowing. Let go, give the profession a chance, this educational national council, and you want it to discuss the issue and length of the duration and structure of the programme. Without one such decision, all these decisions will be a waste of energy, money and a waste of generations. That's the problem. Please accept once again that proposal you've been given. Form what you wanted, National Educational Council. Delay the application of the seventh grade for a year, give this country and the time to open up all the issues raised by this law by law of 2003, by law of 1992, to debate in a professional place. A well-intentioned MP told me what was wrong with my kid learning how he taught my father, and then I didn't answer him, but now I'm going to answer him. He's missing 50 years, because there's such a difference between the generations mentioned. So give us a chance to follow the course of education, give the National Educational Council a chance to make these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4344	The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4345	In fact, in Article 28 of this proposal, we are returning to the old ones because nine years of basic education passed by the Assembly has been abolished. So this provision goes back to the old, second, it does not comply with European standards and third, it certainly does not comply with the 21st century. In accordance with these three facts, I will now read to you, and fully in line with the subject I am talking about, and in particular it will be interesting for those who are calling for tradition, as well as historians, what Vuk Karadzic is in Vienna in 1827 ("The view of the Serbian Bucharest", "Danica", the entertainer for 1827) said: "Every real and smart patriot must want, that in us too, the Bucharests are the ways and schools of the office towards today's century; and those of the kinsmen, who "having zeal, but not by reason", say, that nothing is fixed, but that everything remains in the old custom, as I say, should be sorry, and pray to God, so that he may understand and perform the right way. This is the biggest difference between a man and a fool, which is what a smart man wants and tries to do, that the better he learns and invents, and that he may be smarter than his old, and his children than he is; but the commoner is all work, that he may remain, as he was old, and his children, as he is. What a miserable and sad generation of locusts and this world would be if all men had remained as they were! God only dared foolish animals to remain forever, just as they were old; and he commanded man to be taught equally, and all generations of generations were wiser to become. The greater the effort and progress of God’s command, the happier and the more famous they become; and the more lazy and slow they are, the more like beasts they remain. So the English and the French fled before us, and the young other peoples of Europe." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, eight-year education at this time has only Albania and Croatia and we will have again. The nine-year educations have Belgium, Spain - 10 years old, Italy, Austria - 9 years old, Greece - 9 years old, France - 10 years old, Ireland - 10 years old, Luxembourg - 11 years old, the Netherlands - 11 years old, Portugal - 9 years old, Finland - 9 years old, Sweden - 9 years old, England - 11 years old, Norway - 9 years old, Germany - 10 years old, Iceland - 12 years old, Scotland - 11 years old, Russia - 9 years old, Slovenia - 9 years old, Czech Republic - 9 years old, Estonia - 9 years old, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Hungary - 12 years, Kosovo 9 years old, Macedonia - 9 years, Montenegro - 9 years and Republika Srpska, ladies and gentlemen, 9 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4346	This is proof that this is a democratic parliament. If by any chance I had read Wolf Karadzic here a few months ago, I would have paid 3,000 dinars. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4347	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have heard a lot about the explanations that have already been given, which is why certain amendments are being rejected by MPs, and has been used before in the members of this law by the process of inclusion, unfortunately for children distracted in development, and this has even been used for politicising and proving that the previous law has been so reformist, that it is now simply nothing but one setback. That's just not true. So, while reading some things, I am very provoked by the thoughts written by Borisav Pekic at the same time. So to know something, first of all, it's not worth anything to you if you know everything about a cow, and at the same time you're describing the bull as a cow. In the end, when you apply it, you'll get as much milk as you were right, and most likely an asshole in the forehead. So this is about the 0th grade, so it's essentially going to be 9 years, but it's not defined, given the key proposal as quoted here through all European countries. So, everything here was thought of. It's simple why we twist what's clearly written here. Let's do what's right and really come to an end fair to this bill, not defend ourselves, leaving power, like we're parting our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4348	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just heard a lot of nonsense behind this pay phone. First, standards, standards, standards, standards, that's something I know a lot about. This is much mentioned in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, and now in the Serbian parliament. Secondly, who has the right to quote Vuk Karadzic? He who created such a textbook for the first grade of elementary school in which he expressed the mockery of the character and the work of Vuk Karadzic. Third, one big lie. I have three kids at school. My children in Kosovo go to school for eight years, not nine. I ask that, personally, all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija apologize to me here who say nine years of school is being taught in Kosovo. I don't know where in Kosovo. If Kosovo is Tirana, maybe. Kosovo where Kosovo Mitrovica, where Pristina, Gjilane, Strpci, is taught for eight years, not nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4350	Thank the MP Kragovic. (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Replica. ) Replica, Mr. Knezevic. Who mentioned you? (Ljumir Kragovic, from the place: I didn't mention him. ) Thank you. Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next member. International MPs Anita Beretic and Milena Milosevic submitted to the 29th amendment in the same text. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 30th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the international MPs Anita Beretic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4352	The amendment of the DS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic refers to the amendment and addition of the Law on Education, which provides that the adult category of children who go to first grade of primary school from six to six and a half years of age. All European standards, the pedagogical practice of developed countries in Europe, suggest that it is an adult age when children are to start attending school and to acquire basic initial knowledge in the field of education for six years. We don't see any reason to deviate from modern tendencies and practices, just to change the law that changes and changes with this proposal. I really urge that this "and by" that changes the existing law, that simply because of some spite, not everything that is changed can remain a solution that is in line with all the standards of positive education at this point in European developed countries. The research of educators and psychologists, carried out in the most developed countries of Europe, clearly points out and makes it clear that the adult age of children adapts to the knowledge that they can achieve, and that it is an ideal start to achieve maturity and knowledge in education for six years. That is why we do not see any reason for this border to move and we urge you to accept this amendment, in order to be in agreement with European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4353	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the MP Bosko Ristic want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4354	This is a consequent amendment. It is the result of the amendments that has been put on many members before, because, according to our concept, advice and centres are organisational forms of institutionalization of education. This is where it's changed. Since our basic initiative was to keep that organisational structure that we proposed, this is a consequent amendment. Since the Ministry turned down that, it's logical that this also refused.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4355	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4356	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have some good news for you. Real good, because this is the 67th amendment that we're already considering tonight, and there are 40 amendments left. I have to say that the MP who suggested we work early in the evening until we've finished everything according to these amendments was present all the time and I appreciate that. However, there are MPs who have used this time to read several editions of the newspaper, some, of course, to support the walls of the congregation, which I suppose is well-established, and some have used the congregation hall as Prince Michael to walk a little. Of course, from this pay phone when they address, they say, "Dear Messengers." I don't think it's a minimum of respect for the MPs sitting in this room, let alone respecting the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, the MP twice called for a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this was just quoted as saying that the MPs were not respecting themselves enough. Now I'm going to move on to the amendment I submitted, which is to Article 31, which is related to Article 93 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Education System. In fact, the MPs of the SRS have prepared themselves in detail and seriously to discuss this law. You've seen that and now that we've informed you which amendments we've reached, which means we've also read the proposal for the legal text. And they were particularly active members of the Education Committee, who took part all the time in the work of that committee, and of course tonight showed great willingness and expertise to comment on this law and to comment on what it is, if there is what is good, although it has been little, pointed out as good. And with our amendments, we tried to fix the text of this law, so that the system of education, of course, would be improved as much as possible when such a bill is given. In Article 2 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Education System, and regarding Article 10 of the Basic Law, the National Educational Council is envisaged, and we supported it, and in principle we said that we would also support this law, and that we would submit a number of amendments, which is a total of 37, to which we want to correct the text of this law. Furthermore, Article 2 states that the council can educate permanent and occasional commissions or some working bodies that will contribute to making this law, or education system in our country as effective as possible. When we saw in Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law that there was a possibility that advice would suggest permanent and occasional commissions, we calculated that the Government was considering efficiency, i.e. rationality and what it was saving. Once upon a time, an MP said that we had abolished some agencies. We've abolished a few agencies, but now we're introducing a law on the agency, which will have the opportunity to establish some other bodies, for which the National Assembly will have no idea how many of them there will be. Next, Article 17 of this proposal introduces an institution for improving education and education and an institution for estimating the quality of education and education. The amendment of the SRS, which I have submitted, refers to erasing in Article 31 of the words - the institution, then in the position of the 2nd word - is replaced by the Commission and in the third word - the Institute is replaced by the Commission, by the fact that in the other text, which is related to the improvement of education, i.e. the quality and modernisation of education and education, educational work, the introduction of new content, education programmes, etc., we have not been affected. We just wanted to be more rational, have a proper relationship with the citizens of Serbia, try and save some money, their dinar. It's realistic to try.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4357	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is full of evidence that there is no significant difference between the government of the former and the current regime. In Article 31, which the SRS has submitted to the amendment, which refers to Article 93 of the basic law, advice and centres only has been changed languageically to advice and institutions. There's no difference at all. In our amendment, we have predicted that the institutions are being transformed into commissions, which is not only a language change but also a fundamental change, because we see that commissions are being formed within the Ministry. It's the principled attitude of the SRS. It certainly represents rationalisation and economicity in the application of the law. In the new position of Article 93, you have provided that the initiative with a proposal for a visit, in the opinion of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, shall be considered by the Minister and shall, after the adoption of the initiative, decide on the approval of the visit and prescribe the review programme. For an initiative involving a significant newspaper, the minister is getting the council's opinion. The SRS believes that this is not the kind of opinion that is needed here and that a commission within the Ministry can do this job. But there's another problem here. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. In almost all the arguments, where the government refuses amendments, there is an identical text; it is said - the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the concept of the bill. The government cannot in such a humiliating way explain its position to the National Assembly. The government must convince the MPs, address the MPs with respect, and not insult the dignity of the National Assembly. We talked a lot about tonight, that MPs must respect each other and that they must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and that is correct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in line with the views of the SRS parliamentary group. But for these very reasons, we insist that the government of Serbia also treats the National Assembly, the MPs, with respect, regardless of what parliamentary groups they are from. Because they must have absolutely the same status, and the fact that the Government doesn't like the MPs who write amendments to the government's proposals, that's the government's problem. The National Assembly of Government's problems, of this kind, solves it in another way. Usually, when it comes to the SRS, it is required whether the government has trust or not, and it is certainly obvious that this government does not trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4359	Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4360	I'd like to thank the position of providing the quorum, because it's the only contribution she's making to this conversation. This conversation between the opposition is possibly one of our theoretical bickerings. Our position only serves to feel good. There's no reaction on anyone's side, amazing. As for Kosovo, I would draw attention to the introduction of a nine-year-old school in Kosovo's geographical notion in 2002, which is applied in parts where the Albanian ethnic population is. In Serbian schools there is still a law that obliges eight years of schooling, and we are, in various ways, familiar to people from Kosovo, teachers. trained teachers in the new sense of the introduction of a nine-year-old education programme and in Serb parts of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4361	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4362	I really have to take this, even though it's half past three. Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic is not here. Here we have heard the definition of one piece of territory, an integral part of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as - Kosovo. There is no Kosovo. There is Kosovo and Metohija. For normal and responsible people, it is Kosovo and Metohija and will always be Kosovo and Metohija. The fact that, unfortunately, most of that territory is occupied, or the entire southern province, and that Serbian and Serbian children cannot return to Pristina, to their schools, which they cannot return to Pec, to Prizren, does not give anyone the right to speak here about the fact that it is affirmative that representatives are schooled in the occupied area. children of the Albanian national minority in nine years of schooling. We're not interested in that, neither will the Ministry, nor the Government, if they're responsible. We are also interested in priority for SRS deputies, and I believe for all well-intentioned MPs, all responsible people, that as soon as possible we return as many children to Serbian schools in Kosovo and Metohija and that education lasts eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4363	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. He's pulling it. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4364	Article 32 refers to one of the pillars I mentioned five hours ago. You know, according to the Bookbooks Act, a single institution has a monopoly publishing, and that's the Bureau. The idea that led us to take a look at the textbooks was that the monopoly position of one publisher in education would be abolished, so that the competition would raise quality, which is one good consequence, and we would reduce prices, which is another good consequence, especially for the pockets of parents and children. We didn't have to go in, because we had to change the Law on textbooks, in order to fully settle monopolism, or combat monopolism, but through one provision of the Law we tried to have some effect on solving the problem, by prescribing the procedure of choice, publishing textbooks, etc. With this text that's been suggested, I'm insinuated by two things. The council suggests textbooks. The council is an awful big body. You have a center for development of programs and textbooks, whose task this would be by definition. I guess he'll do it, so he'll give advice. If that procedure goes through the council, then it's an imaginary procedure. If the advice really deals with the team, there's no way out. There will be different interests and we will never come to a solution. What I'm particularly sensitive to, you've thrown out the term "minimum standards" so far, and you've only kept the term "standards." I want to draw your attention that the matter of textbooks, their publishing and writing is sensitive because of the many preconditions that are sought. Some people in this country have devoted a good part of their lives to textbooks and know a lot about the sensitivity of questions and possible malfeasances. One of them is a person who is probably also impressed with the educational culture and politics of this country, as well as science, Mr. Ivan Ivić. He insists on the expression of minimum standards. When you changed this, I hope you consulted him. If you consulted him and he gave the green light, I don't mind, but I think it's better with minimum standards, and you can always raise, so that the standard goes beyond the minimum, that's always allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4365	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were submitted by MP Anita Beretic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4366	Good morning, everyone. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by counterpart Beretic refers to Article 33. The draft law, and it reads - Article 33. The bill is deleted. It's very important that I read the explanation. "It is unacceptable that discipline can be conducted against students over a period of more than 15 days from the day of knowledge of the breach of the obligation. The proposed change extends the deadline to 60 days, which opens up numerous opportunities for improvisation and manipulation. "I suppose all the fatigues, but I will remind the honourable MPs that Article 33 refers to the student responsibility problem, and he says, in Article 96, paragraph 5 is deleted. The position relating to student disciplinary responsibility is deleted – the disciplinary procedure against the student cannot be initiated or managed at the end of 15 days from the date of knowledge of the breach of the obligation, i.e. at the end of the school year in which the injury was committed. It is incomprehensible that the new solution is going to extend to 60 days. We said in an explanation why, but it's even less a clear explanation that we got from the Ministry. I will read it – the amendment is not accepted because the draft law sets a deadline for conducting a disciplinary procedure with the requirements of practice. What is the practice that allows the student to be stressed for 60 days and over and not perform the procedure and express disciplinary responsibility within that period. Our objection concerns this member of the law and we suggest that he return to his old condition, that a disciplinary sentence be imposed within 15 days on the student who has violated a certain obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4367	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Board of Education and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 33, and I ask that the number "60" be replaced by "15". I believe that the deadline for conducting the student disciplinary procedure should be reduced to 15 days from the day the student is found to have committed some kind of violation. Major criminal proceedings begin and end in 15 days. What is it that a student can do at school? To break a window, to cut out a wall, and it takes 60 days for teachers to come up with in school, whether to initiate a disciplinary procedure. This reminds me of another story, when the parent came to the class elder, and he asked, "What kind of son is my student?" He said to him, "He has six aces; so he will repeat himself; teacher, let's bet 500 euros that he won't." Is it a time these 60 days when you allow someone at school to bet with a student's father in 500 euros that he will not be punished son, disciplined. There's no reason for 60 days after a misdemeanor, a misdemeanor, to initiate a disciplinary procedure. If it can't be started in 15 days, there's no need for 60.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4369	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Disic Milos in front of the SRS, I support the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Mr Moma Markovic, to article 33. The draft law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which suggests that discipline against students cannot be conducted after 15 days. Instead of proposing this, over the last 60 days, I believe that the 15-day deadline is reasonable and long enough to collect all the necessary information about the possible infringement of discipline by the students and that the authority is responsible for conducting disciplinary procedures to initiate a disciplinary coup within 15 days. I believe that after 15 days, no disciplinary action against students should be conducted, because the 15-day deadline is optimal for the initiation of the procedure and for this reason I believe that the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Moma Markovic, is very good, and I suggest that it be adopted, because that is the only real thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4371	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4372	Often in the current government's statements, it comes out as a lapus or as a statement that discipline is necessary. Discipline is necessary, but the joy of playing is also necessary for children. That's two things we have to teach them. If you force only one, you'll get the perilous generations, you'll lose generations, you won't win. How clever our people are to have a saying for each side of the medal. I would ask the current authorities to remember that the people say, on the one hand, "the beating has come out of heaven", it is in favor of you, but the second saying "the beating has two ends", it is in their favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4373	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic submitted. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4374	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 34 of the National MPs Aleksandar Radosavljevic and Anita Beretic refers to the amendment in the first position of Article 98, where it says that the words "in the third cycle" are replaced by the words "in the last two classes", resulting from the conceptual difference in the bill proposed by the Ministry to adopt and amend the amendments, i.e. the bill proposal and any amendments submitted by the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. And this is an example of how the weaknesses of the basic education system, reduced to eight years, are manifested, when, through the legal formulation, the listed newspapers, such as the student parliament, are introduced into the last two classes of primary education. So you don't recognize different cycles that could be combined to observe one cycle of education, as you can clearly see through a cycle of three plus three plus three. Then it is clear that the student parliament is being introduced in the last - third cycle of nine-year primary education and in high school, so once again we underline that it is a conceptal difference between these two proposed laws, the law proposed to the Assembly for adoption and the existing Law on Education and Education. We would be really pleased if in some subsequent time it were realized that this was a step back, that this was not an attempt to align the current possibilities and one step forward when it came to the Law on Education and Education, but rather a determination to undo what was done in the law that was passed in 2003 and, again, to underline the lack of courage to enter more decisively into education reform through a reform law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4375	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4376	You see, we handed this over with a brief and clear explanation - demagogy. We were returned with a much longer explanation, which says that students' participation in school will be denied, so we simply wonder what it means now, whether the work of student parliaments is the only work of school, the only important work of school, the only important work of school. However, students are in the course of education subjects who receive knowledge. What's being offered? It's what's been offered before. Therefore, we now criticise the minister for consistency. They usually criticize inconsistency, and we criticize consistency. One of the evidence that both this government and this minister have not far removed from the stance represented by the previous government, the previous minister and therefore that prefix - DOS in our decision to criticise this proposal. What exactly does this member offer? It offers student co-operation, i.e. the decision-making of students in the final classes, seventh and eighth grade, probably by analogy of what is now available in secondary schools and universities. Regarding DOS, we know that in colleges it was very profitable on October 5, 2000 and beyond, these students from the resistance and other NGOs, well-organised, who played revolutionary changes. I don't know how much they got into high school. What I know is, in some high schools, they're at the level of communication with the authorities that need to learn about the rules of good behavior, etc. Imagine, proposing to parents, directors, teachers nice behavior. Have these very children to this extent achieved all the criteria and education and education and good behavior, to teach their teachers? Who will protect teachers and parents from child criticism? So if we transfer to elementary school, what we already have as, more or less, insignificant and unsuccessful in high school, I don't know if it's in colleges and it's come to life, I don't know what we're going to get if we put the kids in the head with the need to, that they can and have the right to participate equally with teachers in serious decisions. What if in attitude three, the kids suggest that, say, they don't want a prom? The law has made that graduations must be. What if the children disagree and the teacher's council or the parent's advice? Who's to judge? The kids are looking, the council doesn't, the director doesn't agree, etc. I think it's demagogical for children of young age, young children, children of development, to be sure that they can have a crucial impact on things that they shouldn't be involved in. They are in some sense passive participants. They receive knowledge, receive information. They also experience their full maturity in college, where they pay for their studies, possibly to ask themselves, but it should be an institution where they pay for schooling by contract to solve, university relationship or university with a student who uses knowledge. This is still a primary school. Let us not let them know that they imagine creating among themselves, among the departments, different confrontations. What if it's an even number of departments, and they split up, and then the summation of the influences of their student parliaments is so divided that one wants, say, prom or Jell-O, don't give God camps. What if they want to go to camps, and they get undressed there, and then they go crazy, and then they get high, and then they get high, and then they get high. I think it's too liberal, too much freedom. We know where the wind blows from. This was probably supposed to be carried out on a warrant, too. Let's try to protect our children by, conditionally speaking, limiting their rights to believe that they can do what they can't do. High school executives don't look too happy when they come out with demands. However, the teacher's council and director judge what is of interest. We're never sure where there'll be an end to the demands of these student parliaments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4377	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4378	Article 98. The law is an area with a title - student parliament, not to comment on what the title means. It's been in this law since last year. The difference between the legislators of this law and the previous proposing is only in the age covered by this institution. The problem of this member in the original text and the amendment proposal is that children attending the seventh and eighth grade should form a student parliament, it is about children aged 14 to 15. From the point of view of law, these are minors who still represent parents as legal advocates, and these children should be one organ, I would say even an institution in a school that should give an opinion on some very important issues. Probably the proposer forgot one thing, no matter how much we tell me that children are the ornament of the world and that the beating came out of heaven, and that there are two sides, the beating should be cautious, but it should also be cautious with this attempt to make an institution and give the opportunity and opportunity for different imaginations to come to terms. This is how expectations are warmed up, the hopes of some who are legally unresponsible persons. A child who is 10 years old wonders when parents are separated where they would like to go, children at the age of 16, gain the right to conclude under certain conditions and marriage, but they are all children. Kids have their own view of school. There's no kid who likes school, no school is a burden to them. Our reality today is that in some schools children in seventh and eighth grade drink coffee. Today's practice is that a child is rude to a teacher at school and who will calm those kids who break into classrooms at night, remake journals, and there is also a class community and there are other instruments for the heirs to hear what the children think about school and the program. Don't push children into institutions, let children be children, so they can learn order and discipline at school and learn some knowledge. Don't give them false hopes that they can influence something, because if they did, as someone here suggested, it's hard for that school.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4379	The word is made by Mr. Knezevic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4380	The idea of a student parliament has nothing to do with political definitions, these are minors, of course, I agree with Mr Krasic, and largely irresponsible. The idea of parliament would open up the opportunity for children to learn about argumentation, tolerance, mutual understanding, so that one day when they are aged and when they take up these benches that we're sitting in right now, everything looks better than it looks now. It's the only idea. That's why it was introduced into the law and that's the only goal we wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4381	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Mr. Zivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4382	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, by amendment to Article 35. I suggested that this article be deleted. The amendment is a resulting type, part of an entire series of amendments and represents along with them one system. I wouldn't particularly explain it, Article 35. The bill provides for the "general basis of the school programme" to be deleted in article 99. We suggest that an old solution remain to regulate the burden of students and the duration of school hours by the basics of the school program and by special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4383	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Kojcic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I explain this amendment, I would have read it. In Article 101, paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "Assessment by rule is numerical. The Minister may, with the consent of the Commission to improve education and education, establish cases which are assessed in a descriptive manner." I think the amendment itself is flexible enough to leave the Ministry an opportunity to choose which items should be assessed in a descriptive manner. In essence, the SRS's pledge is for numerical evaluation, and it means one higher criterion in the evaluation and thus for better quality education. All that's going on these ten and more hours, in fact, by the SRS is an advocate for better quality education, for better quality education and fear that any changes would come into the situation to get a more unquality education, which is not in the interest of students or our society as a whole. We are aware, Serbian radicals, that today some quantity of knowledge at some world level has been increased by 10 years and that it is doubled, and that it is necessary for our education and education to adapt to that trend, and that is something quite normal. We are aware that we cannot pair up other countries in the world with products in which knowledge is not incorporated that is of paramount importance for the development of our society and our economy. It seems to me, listening to some colleagues, we are not fully aware of the difference between education in Europe and education in our country. In my opinion, it's uncritical of me. What is missing, which is the fact that Europe and the developed world exist, except for public education, and private schools, and that is the important and great difference between their education and our education. These private schools have a long tradition, they are of great quality and they are educated by elites of these developed countries, schools by people who take over the most responsible functions in all social areas. That's why comparing their public schools with ours doesn't really make any sense. We need a public school that is significantly more quality than that education that they have in Western countries. This school should allow us to have quality personnel, to train the personnel that need our economies and not to fall behind in the development of the rest of the world. I would say more about the amendment just a few words, that I have a son who is in the second grade of elementary school, and this amendment applies to the first and second grade of primary school, that the evaluation is numerical, and that it seems to me that it allows parents to better look at what level of knowledge their children have. I don't see any problem honestly. As in my case, there are a lot of interested parents for the development of their children and I have an impact that the descriptive evaluation of a large number of parents does not understand. It certainly has some quality, because it is clearer and exactly applied areas that the child missed, but it is quite an administrative effort for teachers themselves. And I'm saying, it seems to me that some parents don't have enough knowledge of the scientific plan and the program to be able to fully monitor scientific and descriptive evaluation, so I think this amendment allows the minister to isolate objects that would be assessed in detail and numerical terms. It seems to me that if we were to adopt this amendment, we'd avoid any traumas that might occur, I mean the third grade. In this way, with one combined evaluation, the child would be more adapted and more prepared to continue schooling. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4385	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4386	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as time moves away and we process one amendment at a time to the SRS, I believe that it is clear to those who are our political opponents that they are increasingly making up one continent, that is, to be able to become the basis for the adoption of a new legislative project. In fact, this area of evaluation is a very important area, because this member of the law regulates a matter that interests almost all of our citizens, and that's where I agree. I was also saying that, in principle, Gashi's law provides for a descriptive evaluation in the first and second classes, it's unacceptable. I was saying, that it would be a real assessment, to understand a student and a teacher and a parent, should be numbered. All the experiments that have been conducted in the world in education and education have shown that numerical evaluation is the best, most credible and precise. For example, in the existing law only to carry out an evaluation for one subject, suppose it is a Serbian language, it needs a class book where there will be eight sections. In these eight sections, the teacher is obliged to describe the language reception, language interaction, mediation, interpretation, language knowledge, knowledge in literature and media literacy. Gentlemen, after this description of the condition of the students and the quality of knowledge from one subject, the student needs to form outcomes. We said that these outcomes are a broad concept to us, that this is a foreign word and that the outcome cannot be a measure of knowledge. Now imagine a parent who will bring home the champion's book and start reading what success his child has achieved, how many educated people would get here, what in fact that champion has achieved from these areas, which is an assessment and whether he is satisfied or not. There are outcomes that regulate that the student has successfully mastered, in part co-government, to overcome a particular area. These outcomes are really a concept that no one understands in this country. This law, i.e. the proposed legislative project, provides for replacement of tasks. It is true that an amendment has been adopted to keep the descriptive evaluation only in the first grade, but that descriptive evaluation is also a question of how it will be regulated. There may be some foreign mentors, sponsors, too, so they may have to accept something similar. I believe that all of our country's teachers would be happy to have a descriptive evaluation thrown out, and that would make both students and parents happy. So, this amendment proposed by the SRS is in a series of amendments that had to be accepted, but regardless of today or tomorrow, this kind of reform of education, this kind of legal project will experience changes, because this certainly won't allow Serbian radicals, and also citizens who support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you may have noticed that already several amendments, which have been submitted by the MPs of the SRS, I did not want to further explain, precisely because I would save time for this Assembly, but I have to explain this amendment in one specific way on the basis of one example. It is true that, through the history of school, there is no better way and a better system of grading than the numerical one, and I will give you an example of a little girl, and that this is happening in countries that are far richer than us, and that can allow themselves the luxury of experimenting on this subject. Namely, a girl from Cačka arrived in the U.S. a year before enrolment in the first grade of elementary school, Angelina Radovic, and in that school, the assessment of the champion's students is done in such a way that students can collect five stars at the same time. But there was a big surprise when, at one point, that little girl successfully accomplished the task of earning seven stars. The problem has arisen, namely, how much she deserves and how her acquisition of knowledge can be qualified at that time. If it was a numerical estimate and she got seven fives, the figures would be added together, divided by seven, and it would be an average score of five. Now, seven stars if you divide by seven, you're going to get number one, and you're going to equalize the child with the one who won only one score at a time, or one star. That's why it's not good. The minister is here, and she could plead immediately, and it would be good to accept this amendment, to have a numerical grade in our schools in the first and second classes. In the end, whether a kid in the first grade can figure out what number five or not, every kid in the first grade understands what it means when he comes home and tells his parents - I got or I got an "A." It would not be good to deny future generations of first and second grade students of that pleasure, and also because of the efficiency in the evaluation, a better system in the world has not been found so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4389	Here you are, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4390	Of course, since this concept of descriptive evaluation was introduced in 2003, I'm just going to make some arguments for the descriptive evaluation, opposing the attitude, but we're here to talk. I think the descriptive evaluation is more complicated for teachers, it's not stars, it's not symbols, it's not bees and flowers, it's nothing to do with descriptive evaluation. The descriptive evaluation is what someone here read. It's more complicated, it takes more time for a teacher, and it really puts him through extra effort. That's not at all controversial. It's better for parents who have time for their children, because they get to know the degree of child development better. It's not good for parents who are always looking for the basis of life, so they kind of have military logic, where you have base points, etc., that they can't manage without those orientations in space. And I think it's better for children, because in competition, and the rating is competition, they go in gradually, getting used to its descriptive form for two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4391	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MPs Miloljub Albianic and Marko Krstin submitted together to the 36th amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, these MPs withdrew this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vladimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4392	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if you do not adopt the amendment to our 36th colleague Anita Beretic, it will certainly have consequences for what is most important in the entire education system, which is at the very level of knowledge with which children leave school. These consequences will be seen in many of the following. In the first place, only twice in the midterm will be evaluated instead of four times, which is far more pedagogically justified. Why is that? Pedagogical more justified for the simple reason that twice in the mid-term evaluation leads children to campaign learning, which leads to rapid forgetting, and the very inability to use that knowledge acquired in such a way, and then really raises the point of schooling itself. In addition, the criteria and all other evaluation issues under your new proposal will be prescribed by the minister without an office. The question arises why here the profession is being undermined, why are the institutions being founded to deal with professional issues. Under current law, the minister is obliged to receive a proposal from the appropriate centre, which in your new proposal would imply that the minister could at least receive a proposal from the office. However, it seems that it is up to the minister to determine all these criteria, namely the assessment, and we can ask the question, regardless of who the minister is, what the minister knows about the evaluation. Assessment is the key, because it concerns and affects millions of children. If this is linked to the fact that the ministry is quietly taking over the management of the Institute in general, as it does in its main responsibilities, and as a result of its planning, to coordinate and organise programmes for permanent professional training of staff in institutions, then it shall verify the results of the attainment of the prescribed objectives and tasks of education at the republican level. Some other examples tell us that it's actually the establishment of a law based on your new farce proposal. I'd really like to get an answer if I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4393	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Members of the 37th amendment were submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4394	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, good morning! You're doing well, exactly the way you're doing in accordance with those intensities promoted by the government that you belong to, working early in the morning, and I'm guessing the Prime Minister isn't in pajamas, he's watching this session, and I believe he's working in the same way as we are here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4395	Please allow the MP to say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4396	If you make a fuss, you'll wake up the Prime Minister. The amendment to Article 37, submitted by our colleague Martic, is aimed at preserving the concept that the previous government advocated and preserving that concept that we have defined through this law that you are changing here. The bill promoter and this member abolishes and definitely nine-year primary education and returns it to the eight-year-olds. We also spoke and advocated that the concept that we have set over the past year is something that we consider to be a very normal concept of further development of education in Serbia. Obviously, we have no understanding in the government, or in the competent ministry, and here as a product of such a misunderstanding is this very member of the law, namely the change relating to nine-year, eight-year education. Our amendment proposes keeping the solution that exists in the law and we consider it to be the only option. I believe that most in this assembly will have an understanding of this amendment, but speaking of the majority, I would ask that, in accordance with Article 82(2), we determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4397	Thank you. Please invite all MPs from the lobby to enter the O.R. It's obvious that the MPs are the ones to work with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4398	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you must admit that I have held on for quite some time to discuss this, and I am competent to discuss this matter. But a few things really irritated me today that I have to get involved. The first is the mention of one dominoe who was the creator of a previous reform, and who I don't even appreciate, and secondly, the mention of one concept. I'm going to talk to you about concepts, because it's going through not only this member, but through a dozen members, where you can see it in this assembly, and I'm inclined to review critically, conflict three concepts. One concept is precisely the concept of Mr. Ivan Ivic, Minister for All Time, first Mr. Stambolic, then Mr. Panic, so Mr. Soros, gathered a team of psychologists. And that's the concept of psychologists; otherwise, I appreciate psychologists very much. However, Mr. Psychologists are only teaching assistants. They help to get better, as they say in their concept - the outcome. The pedagogues are talking about the objectives and tasks of the educational process, which is the concept of this very law that is before us. We have a concept of profession, of pedagogy, which in the previous case is not respected at all. We have the concept of a Mondialist soldier named Soros, who brought together a group of psychologists and I hope that the Minister of State will remove a good portion of those on the Soros payroll. And the Mondialists have tried through their methods in our country, as in many countries in transition, to de facto. Yes, someone said, we are studying under this law of good Serbs. Why not? Only good Serbs will be good Europeans. That is why we from New Serbia will support the only concept of pedagogicals and professions, which is the concept of the ministry, and all of these amendments that are trying to put the bill back to date, we reject a priori.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4399	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it bothers me to say and to object because in some of our amendments we say it's a concept that the SRS advocates and that's how it's foreseen in our programme. And in 80% of the reasoning that you rejected the amendment's opposition is said to be out of line with the government's proposal. So, a double archaic and one indiscipline when it comes to attitudes. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37 of the proposed law, which concerns Article 103 of the basic text. That amendment requires that this member be deleted. It is a member of the basic law that regulates the passing of the final exam of the final founders. The SRS is committed to abolishing this member and liberating the founders from passing the final exam. Why? First, it devalues eight years of student learning, their acquired knowledge, and you can't in one test that takes an hour or two to evaluate their ability and control what they've learned in those eight years. We can get into a situation where some kid has a nervous condition, that he may be sick, that he has a bad concentration, and that in eight years, he's had a great success, but that day he wasn't exactly at the level expected. Until then, the work has earned it, and the test doesn't go as it deserves, and it makes it impossible for him to enter the high school he wants or deserves. That's why we think this solution isn't good. We propose that the evaluation strategy be first established, that criteria be defined and the evaluation control tightened. In this way, it would have been avoided if the 5 in Pirote were not the same as the 5 in Belgrade, and not worthy of the same quantity of knowledge. Therefore, it is necessary to establish and define the evaluation criteria in order to evaluate these assessments of approximately the same knowledge. It would be a great pleasure for the government to adopt my amendment and once again appeal to the motionary to consider and adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4401	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Nemanja Sarovic. He's just here. He's fresh. He'll tell us what he's got.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ristivoevich, I must especially welcome you because I hear that you were most interested in where I was. I'm sorry I wasn't there when my amendment was on the agenda, and I also have to thank my colleagues for explaining that amendment for me. I hope you take it seriously and adopt it, and thus improve this law for the sake of all our citizens. And you, Mr. Aligruditch, please don't throw away. I'm glad to see you, but if you have anything to say, step out for this pay phone. Mr. Michaelovich, I'd like you to calm this group down a little bit...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4403	Let the MP say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4404	Mr. Mihaylovic, as soon as these in the O.R. calms down, so MPs of the ruling majority, I will move on to the amendment. On the basis of Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP of the SRS, Ivan Radic, tabled an amendment to this bill, proposing that Article 103 be deleted. The SRS is against the final exam, and this member is scheduled to pass the final exam after the eighth grade is completed. The final exam assesses the degree of achievement of the prescribed objectives and tasks of primary education and education. If we accept the proposed solution, it would mean devaluation of not only the hard eight-year work of students, but also the work of teachers, everything they have invested, means children and teachers, and the question arises - what in that case is the eighth-year school. Perhaps you should organize, who feels ready at any time until the age of 15 or 18, to simply apply for this exam, to pass and if it shows sufficient knowledge to obtain this certificate that you propose. There are many reasons why one of these children will not be able to pass the exam at that very moment, which can take an hour or three, or show all its knowledge. You know people aren't the same, and children are the same. So the question is whether young people, who are at a very sensitive stage, at a time of puberty, need to impose something like that. Is everyone going to be able to concentrate at that point, whether they're going to be nervous or if one of them might be sick, and in this way you can jeopardize the future? After having passed the final exam, the student acquires basic education and education, on which public documents are issued in accordance with the special law. This formulation is also unclear, because what it means – the student arrives after the final exam is passed. I guess the student's been raised over the past eight years. What was he doing in those eight years, if education and education will be acquired only after the final exam? Based on the completed examination, the student is entitled to enrolment in high school, in accordance with a special law. The final exam program in primary school is prescribed by the minister. I don't think this is a good solution, and there's another question to ask – what will happen if the student doesn't pass this final exam. Will he have the right to juvie? (President: Time is up. () Refuse this time that I've been given, and everything will be fine. That's why I suggest you think about this one more time, vote for the SRS amendment, and we'll think about supporting the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4405	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milojub Albianic, Nadica Momirov and Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic submitted to the 37th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4406	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, chairman, member of the 38th Amendment and addition of the Law, reads - in article 108, the words "insults prescribed by the general and special foundations of the school programme and the general foundations of pre-school and educational programme" are replaced by the words "proscribed objectives and tasks". If this member changes, we will be back in time before 2001, where the teacher's task will be to achieve the prescribed goals and tasks again, not the results, i.e. The knowledge, or outcome, is that it is resented here on the term "extremity", even though it is approved by our church. That's the main difference between two concepts. A class where it matters what a teacher says, and it doesn't matter what children carry with them, it's fundamental rights, even though it's important and education for it to exist. If this member votes as he is, he will remain with his parents to achieve results in some private practice, and this will not be a practice in schools. Some will surely do so knowingly, regardless of the law, until it is discovered by the overseer and then there is a suspension. The proposal is for this member to be deleted and deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4407	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Gajic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gordana Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I submit an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. It's an amendment to Article 40. It adds in Article 113 after Article 6, the 7th position, which reads: "The person who manages the programme of introduction into the work of teachers, educators and professional associates has the right to pass an expert examination. What does it mean? A teacher's program. For this, a preparatory internship was envisaged, indicating that the person was not trained professionally and that he had yet to do the same. In that period, he is not responsible for any failures under this law, or member. The introduction may also apply to a person who has been trained professionally, if there has been a possible interruption of work or change of the work programme, which means that this position and member should be specified and clarified. Since the SRS is against a teacher's license, the concept of a license should be clarified here, which means – in the field of the "licence" teaching programme, the term "licence" is used in the fields of copyright and industrial law, and has a very different meaning, patenting and protection of patents of certain rights. So the question is raised, what is patented in the area of the teaching programme: teachers working on a single programme in the territory of all Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4409	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4410	People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, the DS has tabled an amendment that should bring this part of the law back to its original state and allow the law to re-emerge... Please, Mr. Chairman, don't count on me time to interfere with the MPs. So, I'm talking about the DS amendment per article you've just read, and that's what Mr. Slobodan Mihajlovic said about leaving out the outcomes provided for by the new draft law on amendments and additions to the law that is on the agenda today. By abandoning the outcome, it is in fact completely impossible to monitor and evaluate the quality and real effects of educational and educational work at school. This is another example of how the focus of education from students, which was the central point in the reform law on education and education systems, is moving towards the teacher. In this case, the proposed legal solutions refer to the teacher and are completely lost from the sight of students, those for whom the education system exists, which is why schools exist, which is normal for all modern education systems. In other words, in this part of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it permanently determines what a teacher should do, but if we leave out the outcomes, then we will not have a determination – what is it that a student should learn, what a student should achieve in his life. That's the conceptal difference. The best way to look is to leave out the outcome, the conceptal difference in the system of education introduced by the 2003 law and the changes and additions proposed by this law. I repeat once again: focus, the central point of every modern education system is a student. After all, all the school institutions, the education system, and there is to get quality in the end. The greatest power of one country is human resources. If human resources are developing, and not taking into account the quality of the personnel we are about to receive, I am not sure that we will be able to achieve the necessary giant steps of progress in the 21st century, or I am not sure that we will be in a position to reach the modern world by quick and large steps. The topic is related to the next member, and I will talk about it when that member of the law comes to the agenda, it is a lack of constant monitoring of the teacher's work results. Each of us must have or had children at school and knows that the quality of acquired education depended on the quality of teachers, or teachers. Each of us certainly had experience with certain teachers, certain teachers who did not invest in their own development. This is another example when, instead of the central point of the education system being a student, the whole focus is turned to the teacher, or teacher, without the possibility of a built-in teacher’s own development mechanism, or its own development of the educational staff, which should be a guarantee of quality student development.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4411	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. You're withdrawing the amendment? Yeah. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41 of the Law, which reads "Article 114 is deleted". Otherwise, Article 114. The law defines the area of licensing, which states that the centre for professional development of employees in education issues and extends licenses. It now says that the license is issued by the Ministry of Education. Once again it is proved here that they are the previous amendments to Articles 6, 7 and 8. The SRS was justified when we proposed that the centres be seduced and deleted from this law, because this bill also erases the centre and its role in issuing licences, so that the ministry now assumes the role. However, what is the concept of the SRS is not to issue a licence, but to take expert examinations for professionals and workers working in education and training. Since the time has passed, so as not to subsequently advertise the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in Article 100. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the presentation of the MP, Natasa Micic, and those of Articles 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure. Article 1 says: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Let me remind you that a while ago we adopted the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which states that Kosovo and Metohija are an inseparable part of the Serbia-Montenegro community. We heard from MPs Natasa Micic that Kosovo is a republic. She's here propagating what the Ship's Separatists and terrorists are propagating. Listing the countries of Europe, she also mentioned the state of Kosovo, just as Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj and Bajram Rugova put it. I believe this is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, and I ask that this be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. I also advertise the second position of Article 100, which is that the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It turns out here that we who live in Kosovo, who have children who go to school, don't know how many of our children are learning and what programs they're learning. Let me remind you again that Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija are learning according to the Government of Serbia programme and that this education is 8 years old. Also, I ask that the National Assembly be made known in the day of the vote and that this breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was made by the MPs Natasa Micic. In the end, the position of Article 3 is 100. Rules of Procedure on Work: "It is not permitted to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons". I believe that the argument that Kosovo is a republic, that Kosovo is a state, that children have been educated there for nine years, is an insult not only to me as MPs and MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, but also to all Serbian children who, in these conditions, in conditions of occupation, under conditions abnormal to man's life, manage to attend and finish those schools. I ask that this third position of the 100th Assembly be made known in the voting day, whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not. In the end, I would like to tell the MP in question that when he wants to quote, he better quote the writers of Shipara - Trebid and Ismeta Kadere, not quote Vuk Karadzic, because that is not appropriate. I'm sure Vuk Karadzic is turning into a grave now, when an MP quotes his words, and then mentions that Kosovo is a state and Kosovo is a republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4413	Mr Kragovic, on all the demands you made, the assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you to be a little quieter, because Mr. Ljusic is asleep, you'll wake him up. That's not nice on your side. To Article 41. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, pursuant to Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic and suggested that article 114 be deleted. Why? As you have already heard, this amendment has been rejected by the Minister, who is now, of course, not there, because it is not in accordance with the concept of the law. But this amendment is exactly in line with the concept that the SRS has and under this concept has no license, no license registration and the Ministry of License cannot therefore issue. I urge you to reconsider all this and vote for the amendment of the SRS. Mr. Mihaylovich, I would ask you to calm the MPs, because this is not how it can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4415	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4416	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is fundamentally no different from that of the so-called It's the law of the Fire. It is true that the proposed changes are affected by some problems in today’s education system. The basic and key problems of this bill remain intact. The basic problems that this bill does not address above all relate to: material, i.e. financial problems of employees; low employee earnings of staff; material problems of institutions; lack of funds prescribed by norms; non-adjustment of curricula and programmes to the real needs of interest for which pupils are trained and overworked of teaching programmes, i.e. extensive content of individual subjects, which makes it impossible to fully apply modern teaching methods and verify students' knowledge. Unaccepting most of the amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, the ruling coalition has shown that it does not want the existing law to change in the direction it has guaranteed to protect our education. That's how you showed that you've only made some changes, cosmetic changes to the existing so-called. It's the law of the Fire. The amendment I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns Article 42. It reads, "Article 115 is deleted." I closely followed the presentation of Minister Ljiljana Colic, who, explaining the proposed law, pointed out that the aim of adopting this law is to adapt the time in which we live, respecting our values and respecting European trends, stressing in particular that this law has been written by economic reforms. The SRS believes the proposal for a law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not an ideal solution. It is a better solution than the so-called. It's the law of the Fire. When we talk about a new Article 115, which, according to our amendment, should be deleted, it reads: "The right to obtain a license has a teacher, an educator or an expert associate who has a suitable education under Article 110 of this Law, a mastered program of introducing teachers, educators or professional associates and passed a license exam. The Ministry shall, on a personal request, issue, within 60 days of the date of submission, a licence to a person meeting the conditions laid down in Article 1(1). If the person fails to comply with the conditions set out in Article 1, the minister will refuse to grant a licence by way of a solution. The resolution of Minister of Article 3, which rejects the application for a licence, is finally in the administrative process." The concept of the SRS is based on the fact that the professional examination of teachers is sufficiently qualified and we believe that the introduction of licences is unnecessary. We stand for a different solution. The SRS is against the introduction of licences. We believe that the expert exam is an appropriate solution, given that none of the teachers received the license after one year of adoption of the law. In particular, I would like to stress that under the conditions of political instability this solution will be difficult to implement. As far as violations of a work obligation are concerned, it can be sanctioned by other legal norms, so that this cannot be the reason for the introduction of a licence. In particular, I would like to stress that the professional training of teachers is not covered by this bill, and it is important because the existing law has produced many problems. A state that is not economically strong and powerful is always a good target for various mechanics, who have put themselves in the service of destroying the national being of the Serb people. Reforms in education require a lot of funding, and when reforms are carried out for a longer period of time. They need to be clear...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4417	Please, your time is up, Mr. Gjorgevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4418	We're not out of time. Maybe you're out of time. As far as this bill of law is concerned by the government of the Republic of Serbia, it differs in many ways from the existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4419	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4420	The training of teachers and their licensing are the basis of a good system. All of us who finish some degree of school, teaching colleges, enter the educational process, and during the course of time, we are constantly learning just to teach and forget wider things. Memories need to be refreshed, progress needs to be made. This is why a teacher training system is designed, i.e. seminars and an appropriate system of licences. The idea behind the extension of the license is no idea of the rod or the stick. The desire to enter a time limit of five years and repeat a licence was to only ensure that teachers attended a certain number of classes during a certain period of time. No checks are provided for obtaining or extending licences. It becomes a stimulant and a challenge for teachers to go to provide additional knowledge. It's been said here that no one has been granted a license. That's not true. Ipso lege, by law itself, was given to all those who in teaching with the state exam were on the date of entry into force of the 2003 law. It is true that in a physical sense, the licence has not been obtained. We were in the license-making phase. We wanted it to be a nice-looking ID. Two or three solutions were provided, and it seems to me that we've identified Dossy's picture as being on the front of that license. It would be like a little book, like a driver's license, which every teacher could carry with him if he wanted to. Anyway, it means something to him. Our idea further was that, when we had already entered into this law-altering process, there was a possibility that we could agree that people of older age, teachers over 50 years, let's just say, they didn't have to renew the license. They felt that they were people of age and that there might indeed be no need to bring them into a permanent system of education. We thought it was possible to extend the time limit for licenses from five to seven years. So that inter-periode between the two renewals extend and thus calm the spirits. Ghosts upset the unions. All trade unions whose goal and task is to fight for economic position have begun to deal with the professional training of teachers. I don't think it's bad, I think it's good, I think it's even good that unions have some branches here and that they're dealing with it, but for the first time they've shown a desire for a professional question, probably to protect certain teachers in their ranks that showed a reluctance to innovation knowledge. What has now been done is a pact with the unions. In 2003, we managed to solve this problem. I think there was a possibility that, as one part of this people and those political representatives of this people, we could make some kind of agreement and fix the system, to ensure greater quality. Unfortunately, all changes and all negotiations on the adoption of our amendment have fallen apart and have not been accepted. We've stayed with the amendment and it's my job to say this and try to explain why licenses and extensions are necessary. You have to constantly refresh your knowledge, learn your whole life, make it easier for someone and it's harder for someone to fall, and it's understandable only the other. But what's indisputable, someone here said, knowledge is rapidly renewed, content is changing, we have to work our whole lives to learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4421	Mr. Vlahovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I have come forward with the word on the amendments that we have submitted to Article 43, which refers to the withdrawal of the teacher's license, or renewal of the license, because I think it's a very important category, which is also known in many other professions. We will soon have before the Assembly the law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of managers, and then in this law we will see that a profession that is responsible, a bankruptcy manager, but far less responsible and far less important than the education of children, than their education in school institutions, therefore far less important profession requires continuous renewal of knowledge and re-licence of those involved in the relevant work. The licence as a category is not any punishment, it is just a regulatory mechanism that simply drives certain professions to perfect their skills, because as my predecessor said for this speaker, dear colleague Mr. Gašo Knezevic, knowledge is a very dynamic category, it is known that only in the last 10 years the amount of knowledge has doubled in relation to everything that was known to that moment. I'll remind you at what speed knowledge progresses. In the early 1990s, the Internet; it has to do with the amendment, because, in order to be able to transfer knowledge to new generations, you must have a way to stimulate teachers and teachers, among other things, to increase their knowledge fund. Let's be realistic, is it good that when a teacher gets a job, when a teacher gets a job, he doesn't want his knowledge fund to improve for Yota. Is that good for our children's education? If you don't have an internal self-regulatory mechanism that is a renewal of the license, then you won't even have a guarantee that this knowledge fund will be increased. The license category is known throughout a number of other professions, mentioning only some that come from an economic domain, an auditor's license, an appraisal license, a broker's license, all of which are renewed licences that simply provide an increase in the quality of knowledge. I think this is very wrong, the removal of the postulate, i.e. the abolition of the renewal license and the obligations of teachers and teachers to reaffirm that license every five years. It is wrong because not only will we have a school system and education that is directed at a teacher, or teacher, but we will also have a teacher and teachers without a built-in knowledge-building mechanism, which means that we will ultimately have a significantly reduced quality of education for our youth, that is, our children. Once again, as I said last time, human resource is the most important resource when you have an increase in the knowledge fund at the speed we had in the HH century, and count on us to have in the coming period unproportional, but an exponential increase in knowledge, and therefore there needs to be a mechanism that will directly stimulate teachers, teachers, teachers to increase their knowledge fund. This is not a punishment for teachers and teachers, this is simply a mechanism that provides a more important and quality teaching. I urge the parliamentary majority to imagine well whether it is good to lift the renewal licenses for the educational chamber. Of course, there are a whole series of teachers, teachers who, thanks to their creativity, their own curiosity, increase their knowledge fund, but do not forget that there is one large group of educational staff that has not been working on their own efforts to increase the knowledge fund, and indeed this internally built-in mechanism is necessary for us to have quality teaching and that we would turn as much focus as possible from teachers to students. Of course, if some MPs from the parliamentary majority feel that this is what I'm talking about is irrelevant, it would be good for them to come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4423	Mr. Vlahovic, you spoke for six minutes. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4424	Dear MPs, I am glad that certain MPs express their desire to see me more often at the congregation speaker. I'm going to meet you, it's only 4.15 thank God, we have time, and believe me, I'm fit, the only thing that will bother me is that this morning I won't be able to say goodbye to the Danube. But, my God, we have a more significant goal than that. Erem, by removing the obligation to extend the licence on the basis of the professional training of teachers, the teacher's obligations, as well as the whole well-thinked training system, which had already been implemented in 2002 and which was financed by foreign donors, primarily the Swiss state, which was interested in improving the level of education in primary and secondary schools through additional training of teaching staff in Serbia. And it has been proven that the level of teaching and conducting teachers, and one of the basic factors is the transfer of knowledge and better education of children in primary schools, as well as in secondary schools. Professional training is given in this way to the will and desire of teachers. The discretionary right of each of them is that, if they will, they follow the modern course of education or, if they do not want to, simply never again opens any books after completion, they do not connect to the Internet and absolutely do not follow what modern flows present in the subjects he teaches at school or the knowledge he wants to convey to the students. There is a huge additional value and very little investment in professional training, because I will remind you, out of the total budget provided for by the Ministry of Education and Sports, only 0.1% of the budget is needed for the education portfolio in order to enable additional teacher education. If you are aware that you have a large number of teaching staff in Serbia, which, among other things, does not speak English or does not use a computer, it is enough for you to simply realize that in the 21st century you need to enable them to acquire the knowledge they need to follow modern flows. It is simply an incredible absence of a systematic and strategic opinion among those who have proposed these amendments and additions to the law. In addition, the whole of Europe is trying to create as high-quality teachers as it can be seen, as I have already said, that this is the key to the success of education. The success of students is absolutely linearly coordinated with the professional training of teachers, and I will remind you that in most European Union countries, the number of lessons the teacher should spend annually in professional training is between 20 and 100 hours. Our 2003 law stipulates that the professor should have 100 hours, but in a five-year period. We do not think that this is an additional burden for professors, which they could not bear, and we do not think that the obligation that this law requires is something that is terribly important for teachers to simply be forced to attend certain seminars that they would be able to teach in schools, unless they have the will to perfect themselves. All that, therefore, a hundred hours in a five-year period would cost less than 800 million dinars for all teachers in five years. So a completely symbolic figure for the immeasurable effect that would result. What else is interesting about this whole story? Interestingly, in these changes and additions, it is implicitly legalized to keep private teachers, and thus legalized the gray economy of private school classes. Of course, there's an exception. You can't give private lessons to a kid you teach that class to at home school. You can do it to everyone else. Since you have good relations with colleagues from another school, from a neighboring school, you are fully open to the space that in a good coordination through the gray economy you are interested in not overcoming what the teaching program provides, but simply after that you are holding additional private classes, increase your budget, but greatly damage the budget of families that are objectively devoid of money. Each of us, I suppose, or most of us, has children at school and you know how much extra burden it is to pay for the home budget not knowing enough, not enough good work of teachers in primary school, which you have to make up for in private classes afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4425	Mrs. Lakicevic, may I ask you, it's 5.30, you've used your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4426	It is five and thirty-five, and this is the simple conclusion of a sentence and much less a violation of the Rules of Procedure than what you are already doing, here, for 12 hours in this House, since I remind you that we are still discussing the law that has been laid down under an emergency procedure, and for which, according to article 221, we have not been given an explanation today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4427	Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Gašo Knezevic. All I ask is that we keep an eye on it, five minutes is quite enough to make the remarks on the amendment, because in these previous statements, all three MPs have exceeded almost a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4428	Mr. Chairman, I don't see any reason to say that now. Not once, and I answered several times tonight, or today, I didn't take care of time, and I always ended up doing as much as I needed to say what I was going to say, and I never wasted my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4429	That's why I just gave you a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4430	In this article 44, which amends Article 118 of the current Law, teachers ’ protectors show their other face. They show that, in fact, apart from the protective roles, the roles of protectors, they also play the role of inquisitors. They give a particular authority whose jurisdiction is, in essence, not a problem, to carry out a suspension of a licence by procedure and in a way that is not completely worked out, for reasons that can be very, very diverse, and you can imagine a situation where a teacher is punished for working in a certain way that is attractive to children, and for school, or for the system, perhaps not acceptable enough for the Ministry. As a result, it is a suspension of the licence and a return to the state exam. Now a man who, say, is 55 years old is going back to the state exam. I'm really surprised what a pact is made between the unions and the promoters, that they haven't responded or they've repeated the disease of this people, and that's the disease we are, we're the oral people, rarely or not always like to read. Maybe they didn't read. That's the only reason I see it, which is why I could imagine they didn't react. This is actually a beating in the hands of the promoter, the Ministry of Education, not the Government of Serbia, but only the Ministry of Education, in terms of relations with educational workers, and it actually shows that the relationship is not protective, but is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4431	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? National MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4432	The Honorable Chairman, MPs, article 44, really hides the danger that according to the full subjective attitude of an educational counselor, there is an accounting with the teaching staff, and there is no rational explanation of why the introduction is being introduced and why the suspension of the licence is done. The third amendment of Article 118 states that a licence is suspended to a teacher, an educator or an expert associate who, according to a report by an educational advisor, does not carry out educational-examination work, in a manner and procedure that enables the attainment of the prescribed objectives and tasks of the education and education programme (the prescribed objectives and tasks of the education and education programme are very unsettled in the proposal for this law), which the educational advisor finds to have failed to address shortcomings in his work (two times negatively assessed). So he can return it twice to remove his shortcomings and then give him the suspension measure. And one more thing, which is being subdued in this article and that once again indicates that the law was done in a hurry, not with the intention of being quality, but how much to undo the qualities of the previous law, attitude 4 and attitude 9 are the exact same content. No one has submitted an amendment to that and it will remain in the content of the law. Article 4 states: "A teacher, teacher or expert associate who has been suspended for the reasons set out in paragraph 3 of this Article may be suspended from the licence suspension if the licence is passed. "In paragraph 9, the exact same formulation is, only it stands – the suspension of the licence ends if the licence is passed. That's the same thing. It's not some more serious thinking of installing something that would qualitatively improve this law, but it's opening up the possibility that there's still one place in the law to do arbitration, to centralize behavior in this area, which suggests that the law is both undemocratic and completely arbitrational. Here is another example that an educational counselor will be able to withdraw a license from any teacher, who, according to his assessment, does not fulfil the obligations arising from the achievement of the objectives of the curriculum. It really shouldn't have been found in this law. There are sufficient restrictions on licences based on serious infringements of labour discipline and renewal of the licence, which enables it to confirm and extend through professional training and re-testing. It makes sense for this amendment to be accepted and to delete the amendments in pages 4 to 9 and to remain the solution in the previous law in Article 118.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4433	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to article 44. I should not comment much on the suspension of the licence, since the SRS has already had several amendments on this. He gets a license for anyone who graduates from high school or high school at an elementary lecturer. I am proud to have obtained that license from the prominent lecturers, such as Mihajlo Stevanović, Radosav Boskovic, Pavle Ivić and similar. It's a bit of an older generation. That's how I got my license to work. They taught me that the Serbian language has its principles, and many should stick to these principles here. These are - clarity, understanding, beauty, purity and economics. I'm about to follow those principles. The SRS is against the very idea of a license, for us to remain the concept of a professional or state exam. When it comes to perfection, each teacher has to perfect himself in his profession, because there are always at least 30 smart heads in front of him who view the Internet, read literature, and are always ready to direct a few questions. What Mr. Gašo Knezevic said, that there is no laying down but that it is someone visiting classes, additional education, the law says clearly in front of this member – it has the right to pass license exams. The exam is still in place. And if it didn't fit, it would be a seminar, where good lectures are heard; and it's better to keep it -- a seminar for teachers; because when a man goes to that seminar and they ask him where you're going, there's no way he can say it -- I'm on the license.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4435	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although it is obvious that there are no more than 50 Members of the ruling majority here, we are not going to ask for a quorum, because that is not our goal. We want to show that the work we're doing, we're doing maximum and serious. It's a shame the Minister didn't find it appropriate to sit down for a while, listen to some of the amendments, maybe some would accept. The amendment to Article 44 was submitted by a national MP from the SRS, Tomislav Penezic, and envisioned the erasure of Article 118. That member is one of the most important amendments that the amendment has been submitted to, and I think it would be good to accept. It says: "In the course of the validity of the licence can be suspended. The licence shall be suspended on six months by a teacher, an educator and an expert associate whose employment relationship has been suspended due to the measure imposed for the breach of the labour obligation referred to in Article 131(2), (6), 7), 10) and 11 of this Act. "If you look at what is written in Article 131 and bring both members into a logical relationship, you will see that these injuries are caused by which the educator is given a suspension of six months next (but I will start from the end): destruction, damage, concealment or presentation of records, i.e. school documents; unauthorized data change in the records, i.e. in the school document, erasure, addition, redundancy or abandonment of data (this practically means falsifying school documents, and the question is whether anyone who does this can do not work at all for six months but also later, whether it can deal with this job anymore). Then, it's - carrying weapons into an institution or within a circle of an institution. Do you think those people who carry guns in school institutions who can cause an accident or the death of a child should work there? Do you want your children to trust these people? Now we come up with two of the most severe injuries, which the SRS believes certainly deserve a much more severe sanction than is the suspension of the educators. A teacher for six months. Anyone who commits any of these injuries should never come near school again, not be a teacher or a teacher. It is about inciting drug use in children and students or enabling drug use, giving or not reporting purchases and use. Is there anyone who gets our kids hooked on drugs, who deals around school, who makes it possible to buy drugs for underage children, after six months, to work as a teacher or an educator? I think the person who does this should spend a lot longer than that six-month suspension and never again in life should be given the opportunity to be a teacher or teacher. Finally, there is a violation from point 2) of Article 131, which says: endangering or harming the physical or mental integrity of a child, or a student (physical punishment, moral, sexual or otherwise committed abuse). Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the ruling majority of this provision remains in the law, you will allow persons who sexually abuse younger minors to be educators and teachers. People like that, the place is in jail. These persons were to be treated with changes to the set of judicial laws. They needed sets of judicial laws to apply, not the Law on the founding of a system of education and education. They're gonna do this one more time, since the Minister just arrived. Note that Article 118, which stipulates that a six-month suspension will be given to a person who commits injuries under Article 131(2), (6), (7), 10), 10) and 11), including incentivising the use of narcotics, carrying on arms, sexual and physical abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4437	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4438	It's a conceptual amendment. If none of them are adopted, there's no reason to adopt this one either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4439	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4440	Similarly to an explanation given by Gašo Knezevic for his amendment, this amendment refers to Article 134 of the founding law and is intended to delete the words "as well as administrative oversight of the work of the institution" in paragraph 1. We did not provide for the existence of an institution, and therefore, if this is not accepted forward, there is no need for this amendment either. It's been a long time, the MPs are tired, there's no need for some broader explanation of this amendment. You can do whatever you want, but it looks like you won't go as far as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4441	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have a little more patience and we'll be done, if we're radical, we will, if we don't, you'll still be waiting. The concept of SRS is known to you through previous amendments. We have already denied the existence of an institution in previous amendments. That's a lot of words, I wouldn't want to put any more pressure on you and bother you, but if you'd accepted the amendments at first, which was necessary, probably this session would have taken a very short time. I'd like to explain Article 148 to be deleted. He says, "The fines between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars will be fined for the offence unless they prepare the relevant material or deliver it to the minister, or to the council within the given time limit (Article 25(2)). The fine of 1,000 to 10,000 dinars will punish the violations of Article 1 of this article and the director of the office. "You can see for yourself that by abolishing the institute we also wanted to save these martyrs of these punishments. If the institutions had been abolished, such penalties would not have been prescribed, and these are new burdens for the office, or director of the office. It means that we were absolutely right when we said that we needed shelters and centres, and you stayed until the end on your proposal, and I don't think we're going to be expecting the establishment of institutions and centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4443	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really expected the answer of the Minister of Education and Sports for my explanation of the previous amendment, and I would like to tell Mrs. Minister that her job is not to come here, to sit down and read the newspaper, because in that case we do not need her presence. It is already the meaning of your presence here, ma'am, that you answer our questions, that you provide explanations of your concept of law, that we explain ours to you and that in that debate we find what is best for Serbia, which is best for our children. There are very serious objections that I have made to this previous amendment and the very serious consequences. I am sorry that you are not responding to this, but I will now explain the amendment submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic to article 148. This amendment provides for the removal of a member of the 148th Law, as the SRS concept does not provide for the existence of an institution. Also, it's very interesting to compare the amount of these fines you predicted and the penalties you predicted the other day, when there was a debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure on the agenda. We have seen that the penalties provided for witnesses who do not respond properly to the hearing are up to 100,000 dinars, although the consequences are much less than the consequences of the case if the responsible person from the office does not prepare the relevant material and deliver it to the minister. While he's, for example. The penalty for an artificial institution, which does not perform this skill in time, up to half a million dinars, which is extremely inappropriate for the economic situation in the country, although the social danger of such a violation is much less than if the institution does not prepare the necessary materials and deliver the advice within the given time period, and the intended penalty for the institution is only 10,000 to 50,000 dinars. It would be logical if in one law you increased the sentence by ten times, to do so in each, if inflation is so big or if there is a concept, then it should be permeated and painted through all the laws. It's obvious that there's volunteering here, that from member to member, as you can think of, you write it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4445	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4446	Several of the latest amendments proposed by DS-Boris Tadic are in the transitional and final provisions of the law. They are designed to reflect our proposal to postpone, this is exactly this amendment, the beginning of the implementation of the seventh-grade reform programme in a year, to get a year of professional talks, so that not so many scars on the face of a generation. Since DS - Boris Tadic has experienced that no amendments to it have been adopted, which is our grief, of course, but I think it is also sad for the entire generations of children who are going to be educated under this law, I have no intention of explaining amendments, transitional and final amendments anymore, because I believe that the time scale that I have now explained is a picture of the essence of the problem and that further argument here when something is to begin is not necessary, because it is obvious that nothing will be adopted. I want a new ministry and a new government a lot of happiness in implementing something that's impossible. This implementation is impossible. This law was passed with a mortgage. It's a mortgage this night. Something abnormal happened in this country. This law has become a symbol. A Belgrade school director said - reforms are necessary. The first was a cut, the second was a sudden cut. Isn't that a lot of cuts on the face of a generation? Whoever is able to replace the current government will have a terrible dilemma about what to do with a law that is burdened with a terriblely large mortgage and has the fate of that law that the university was unhappy with in 1998. I hope you get the strength in this country to make another cut. There may be a lot of cuts in one generation, but we'll have the pure faces of other future generations. So I advise anyone who replaces the current government to boldly go into reform, to courageously return the current solution and try to improve it, to fix it, because this solution has never been closed. So, I wish you all the best in the application of this law, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4447	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 57, reads: "Article 161 of Article 1 of the word "capitalised by an accredited training programme" is replaced by the words "put the exam for the director". Article 2 is amended as follows: "The Director shall cease his duty if he does not pass the examination within the time limit set out in Article 1." The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, amends Article 57 and reads as follows: "Article 161(1) and (2) is deleted". The reason is that the SRS is against introducing exams for the director. The government's argument states that the amendment is not accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the Law on the basis of the education and education system. Just because we wanted to change the concept of this law, that's why we submitted the amendment. First of all, after a lot of trouble, if you follow the explanation, you'll see that the cost of passing exams for the director is borne by the person who passes the exam for the director. In this situation, when educational workers have come to the bottom of social sustainability, then we come to such a selection that whoever has material opportunities can pass the exam for the director, and those who do not have material opportunities are disabled, or inferior to these first ones. It does so not selection by knowledge, skill and expertise, but by material possibilities, which we have tried to amend and improve the bill. What's important for the directors is that every director should follow the pedagogical work at school; through the visits he is doing just that. There are exactly professional services in every school that certain jobs do. Legal affairs are under the responsibility of a secretary, who is a lawyer by education. There are educators, psychologists, who help control the process of teaching. Apparently that the exam for the director is unnecessary, all it takes is a professional exam for each director. What is undefined, what is just the exam, but through the interview that Miss Secretary gave, we came to the conclusion, according to her statements, that the director shouldn't be someone who doesn't know foreign languages or has no basic information literacy. The fact is, and we all admit that in many situations knowledge of foreign languages or knowledge of at least one world language may be more important than completing two universities. Far from us working against the knowledge of foreign language. I was in primary school at Cambridge, Oxford, about English, and that's not controversial. Whether these knowledge is only desirable and whether those knowledge is necessary for a person who should be a director makes him more professional; surely such knowledge is not mandatory. As far as information literacy is concerned, you have weekly courses, so that everyone can acquire the basic knowledge and elemental level for that short period of time. What matters to every director is that he has the skills of managing institutions. That's all that matters. This gives you the opportunity to make a selection of political belongings, which you seem to be doing well. I was startled by the minister's attitude and opinion when she said, so you were doing nationalists, you were in love with Serbs, and I'm Serbian, so why don't you cut your discussion short. You, ladies and gentlemen, have negotiated, negotiated, negotiated for two days because of the SPS and New Serbia, and we have waited patiently and proposed these laws. I guess these laws are more important to you than the drug laws, which obviously won't be able to go the way you planned, and then they're the radicals, who studioly explain their amendments. Apparently, the minister is unable to be directed because of this time and gives answers, because she was a passive observer and listener all this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4449	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Belic, but was withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Andric to Article 58. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Lemajic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Lemajic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of Proposers adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 70th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milena Milosevic and Milan Veselinovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4450	Ladies and gentlemen, here, thanks to the SRS and us for imposing a grotesque amendment on them these days and tonight, but it was much better that we did this job in normal conditions, without emergency procedures and imposing this kind of work. I believe that the citizens of Serbia will understand who is actually interested in education and education and who is the goal of doing this job properly, what is actually foreseen by this legislative project. There's not much to be philosophy and talk about education and education here. We all know that this is a living process and that this process requires reforms, in order to monitor the development of science, technology and all other achievements in the segment of human life and work. That's why we, the Serbian radicals, simply have another approach and you saw that our approach is different from your approach, and that we adapt both the weather, the mentality, and the material background that our country has. This amendment to Article 70 reiterates those views and concepts that we are against the establishment of institutions and centres. I won't talk about it anymore, because we've said enough. Paragraph 5 of Article 70 states: "The property, rights and obligations, as well as the employees of the centres, are being taken over by the institutions, in accordance with the work established by this law. "So it's not a neck, it's a neck. You're doing the same thing they've done before. All employees are regrouped and taken over by those institutions, and I believe that we haven't rationalized anything, remains as old as possible, and there is still the possibility of getting new ones and creating as much bureaucratic apparatus as possible, and the greater spending of the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4451	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4452	I promised my colleague, I didn't think anything bad about the drivers from Lazarets, it was just a context in school and the topic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4453	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4454	At the very end, this law will go into history, that's what I wanted to say. It's five o'clock in the morning, and it's to honor the Minister of Education, which is a law of urgency, which is past the procedure, past the Rules of Procedure, which is a law of force, which will create a destiny of generations. It's five o'clock and five minutes. Good morning Minister, good morning to the new government, and I hope the Prime Minister wakes up. I just want to say, in the end, that one efficient, modern law has been mutilated and destroyed by traditional solutions, by restrictive solutions. And may it serve you honor, if you truly have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4456	Ladies and gentlemen, this vampire law has worked. I appreciate Mr. Albianic's apology. He did not personally insult me, but he insulted most of our public, so all high school students in Serbia were offended. It's his bad behavior, it's that complex G17 that's bothering, and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4457	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law will not go into history because it's being passed this late tonight, i.e. which is passed at 5.05 p.m., will already enter history because of the opposition parties' desire to obstruct the adoption of this law. Of course, we have shown, regardless of the threat that we will not stand to pass this law, we have endured, we have passed, we will vote for this law and that is another victory of the ruling coalition. It's proof that anything can be won whenever you want, that tenacity, strength and will are won, and I hope that's how it's going to be in this election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4459	I suggest we give the Minister's word and that's the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4460	This law will go into history really for bringing it in five hours and something, because of it; well, we will bring it; and we have shown that as Parliament and as MPs we are serious people, and as such we have earned the trust of the people and we show that we are capable, all of us from power and opposition, together to work all night to the benefit of the people and the state. And the young gentleman in question went into history for waving certain tickets, by plane, and I can ask him if there's anyone for Bodrum for this summer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4461	It wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4462	He's on his way to the office.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4463	That's right, Article 100. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for there to be no confusion, it's morning, it's probably certain MPs are tired, I haven't offended anyone in Serbia. G17 plus stands behind this law, G17 plus has made a significant contribution to obtaining one quality text of law and G17 plus will continue to support the application of this law and participate in all this. So, we got reform law and we got a law that would be good for everyone in this country, Serbia, from primary school to college.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4464	I give my word to the minister, please, Ljiljana Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4465	At the end of this extremely exhausting and tiring debate, which TV screens have long since been followed by members of our closest families, I will be quite concise. There is much being said here about the proposed law, but unfortunately much more than this law has nothing to do with it, but much is said about the participants themselves in the debate. They were able to hear each other's extreme opposing claims. Serbia has a big problem, it's not an interethnic problem, but unfortunately, intraethnic hatred, so much hatred and self-destruction that anyone who followed this can only fear for the future of this people. This Serbia needs and needs a national consensus on increasingly important issues, where education certainly falls. How to reach this consensus, if one part of the members of this Parliament argues that this law is only cosmetically and slightly amended text of existing legal provisions, and the other part that it is about 80% of the changes. If one claims that this law is too centralistic and the other that the existing decentralisation is abolished. If some say that the state has to control and influence the choice of school leadership more and more, others say that every form of freedom and creativity is abolished in schools. If according to one license, there is a fatal issue for Serbia, and others consider it unnecessary. According to one thing, Serbia is withdrawing into self-insulation, and according to others, the proposed law is mondialistic. I have no intention of defending at this time the proposed law on amendments to the Law on the Education and Education System, he will defend himself in practice. In addition, amendments were either offensive or rhetorical, or put forward by absent amendment promoters. So there's no need to answer them, so only in metaphorical vision will I point to our primary goal, not only when it comes to this law, but the ministry's work in the existing assembly at all. The building next to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is Cyrillicly carved into the stone - the Home of the Serbian-American Bank. That building came from the beginning of the last century. This is our goal, to respect what is Serbian and traditional, to be consensual and cooperative with the rest of the world and to serve all Serbian citizens without distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-27-0.u4466	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We voted to work until the end of this point. I'm closing the deal for now, and I'm scheduled for May 28th today, so Friday, at 1400 hours, to resume work.
