ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 227 MPs present. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the National MP Nenad Bogdanovic. I am informing the National Assembly that he has been invited to attend the session of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session in agreement with the presidents of the National Skuppist Groups within a short period of time than laid down in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to the need for the National Assembly to elect a president, vice-president and minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. With the call of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the termination of the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 77, against 132 abstentions, two did not vote 18, a total of 229 members of parliament present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft law on the agenda of the Law on Planning and Construction, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 76, against 138, no 20, a total of 234 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Mode and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 78, against 139, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 77, against 140, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, a total of 236 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft resolution on the agenda for Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 98, against 130, the abstentions of two, did not vote 8, a total of 238 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 77, against 140, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, a total of 240 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 80, against 144, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, a total of 243 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the law on financial transaction tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 83, against 137, one abstention, was not voted 23, a total of 244 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the international mafia's operation in electricity trade and financial-banking abuses, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 135, against 59, abstentions of 49, two, 245 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the termination of the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 31, against 138, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 245 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 162, against 81, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one, a total of 245 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the agenda as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The election of the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. The proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify facts and circumstances on the functioning of the international mafia organisation in the trade in electricity and financial and banking abuses. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda: – The election of the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a proposal for a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the acting president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Marscanin. You have received the consent of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to accept the candidacy. That way... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Hold on, please. Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, conditions were met: to present the candidate for Prime Minister to the National Assembly his programme and propose a composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with Article 92(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; to open a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for Vice-Presidents and members of the Government in accordance with Article 186. Rules of Procedure; to determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and to elect the Prime Minister and Prime Minister in accordance with Article 73(10). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 5. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; and that members of the Government take an oath in accordance with Article 6. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 188 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to present his exposés to the National Assembly and propose the composition of the government. There's a time before the debate opens, I remember, you'll get a word to extend the debate, I guess that's it. There is a word for candidate for Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u906	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Serbia marks 200 years of rebuilding its statehood. The question is raised before us today: what does Serbia ask of us; what today at the beginning of the new century, after 200 years, does Serbia expect of us? Not just from one government, but from all authorities, in all kinds of jobs, what does she ask of us as her citizens? 200 years ago, to remind ourselves, Serbia determined its state status step by step by step by winning its freedom, namely the status of internationally recognised states. Serbia then began to redecorate economically, politically and culturally, following civilizational and democratic patterns and standards that prevailed in the more developed part of Europe. In the second part of the 19th century, of course, with Montenegro as an independent state, Serbia became an essential part of the then European community of states. Today, at the beginning of the new century, Serbia stands, of course not in the same way, ahead of some of the tasks it faced 200 years ago. That is why it is right that those who remind us of our demographic and material losses, of lost time, of historical delusions and failures, but also of those who claim that despite everything, especially the circumstances they were, Serbia was still moving forward. A few things should be noted which are of particular importance for Serbia's forward movement, at this time, at the beginning of the new century, to continue. What are the problems we face today? First, Serbia must first resolve its state status, which has been questioned if it is kept in mind that in part of its territory, Kosovo and Metohija, there is not our authority, but the highest authority of the international community. Secondly, Serbia must establish its status within the state union with Montenegro, establishing and strengthening the state union itself in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, not the opposite; by applying the constitutional charter, making the community functional, rather than largely dysfunctional as it is today. The third job, the third task when it comes to rebuilding state institutions, is that Serbia must internally regulate building strong democratic institutions and establishing a rule of law. The rule of law implies breaking up with the remains of the party state's consciousness and practice. The rule of law implies a decisive reckoning with legal volunteerism and self-will. The rule of law, after all, requires the ban on corruption, especially the large ones, especially from any attempt to intrinsically unnatural, and formally illegal way of obtaining privileges and wealth suppressed and dedicated the will and interests of the people and institutions through which these wills and these interests of the people are manifested. Fourthly, Serbia with Montenegro must also resolve its status in the European Union. In addition to all legitimate disagreements and disputes between relevant political parties, both in this Parliament and in the public in Serbia, outside each dispute is the essentiality of Serbia's Europe and the need for formal confirmation and membership in European structures. That membership is not just what you want, it's something you need at this point, which you can't do differently. What is wanted by the rule brings benefits, and what must be done does not always benefit, but the European way for Serbia-Montenegro has no alternative at this time. That is why it is our greatest duty and obligation not only to end the decades-long collapse of the institutions, but also to establish such an institutional, primarily constitutional framework, which will ultimately enable Serbia to make stable progress. Of course, the institutions, the laws, the integration of society is not a goal for themselves, but a means for every society, and especially for those who have suffered under all kinds of violence, internal and external, the citizens begin to live in a more peaceful, safer and even better life. Let's go in line and in the shortest lines I'll expose, and in one broader text that you'll get after the break you'll see, as the government sees changes in the state, in the economy and in all the main social activities. I'm going to start, of course, about the state, how to arrange it, how to strengthen the institutions. I'll start with that part of the country where our government is the most controversial, by the fact that the international community's authority has been established above that authority. I will begin with Kosovo and Metohija, as one for this country, for this government, for this parliament, I am deeply convinced, with the most pressing question. With this fundamental attitude constantly in mind, I would like to say that the government will lead a real policy of state interest. I immediately respond to what this means: firstly, it means that there is no solution to the issue of Kosovo's status and Metohija without Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. One who wants to put the issue on the agenda should know that without Serbia and the state union, it is not realistic to do so, and that the word "status" for Serbia, which has been used so much lately with regard to Kosovo and Metohija, can have many meanings, but no meaning of independence. The first and most serious problem in Kosovo and Metohija remains the issue of the return of Serb exiles to their homes and homeland. It is understood that we cannot solve this problem without UNMIK, but we can propose a viable plan in phases, which would take place in order of guaranteed security for returnees. The same principle of phasing-out should work to restore property to legal owners, private persons and the state, as well as to ensure and restore Serbian and European cultural heritage in the province. Given this, I would especially like to point out, to all dramatic changes, the urgent issue is really being raised when it comes to the disenfranchisement of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija, the establishment of new mechanisms for protecting the Serbian part of the population, property and cultural goods of the province. The government, of course, will insist with all competent authorities on UNMIK and international actors on a different and new setting of institutional frameworks for the protection of the interests of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. If essential autonomy is the formula by which Resolution 1244 provides self-government for Kosovo and Metohija in relation to Serbia, then the fundamental autonomy of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija is the new formula that provides this community with the basic conditions of survival in today's Kosovo and Metohija, given discrimination against Serbs, which prevails both in the provisional institutions and in the majority community. The core autonomy of the Serb community in Kosovo implies territorial autonomy, division of Kosovo into entities or cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as appropriate cultural and personal autonomy. The education of the institutions of government in Kosovo and the provision of such essential autonomy for the Serb community in Kosovo must take care of one more thing taken into account in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Dayton Agreement. The fact is that the national, ethnic composition of Kosovo and Metohija has changed significantly since 1999. The constitution of institutions in Kosovo and Metohija must take care of the state it was in 1999. Then, something about relations in the state community. It has been a little over a year since the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was adopted. During that time, much has not been done, has not been done enough, nor has it been done on the agenda of its internal institutional and legal arrangement, nor in the exercise of its constitutional powers. When the Serbian Government is established, we will be engaged and fully responsible for accessing our obligations, which arise both from the Constitutional Charter and from our basic democratic and European orientation. The government will do everything possible in its field of competence to design and functionally strengthen the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. This first means that the government must work towards achieving Serbia's commitments to it. As part of the constitutional changes ahead, it is necessary, among other things, to make the necessary adjustments to the Constitution of Serbia to the Constitutional Charter. As for the work on harmonisation, it must be completed, and what has been done so far to adopt the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems should be implemented and continued in the coming period, in order to speed up market economy conditions for the entire area of the state community. This government will implement an enhanced pro-European policy. It means that in this domain, it will work more and less. In internal development, Serbia must become a safe country, in which human and minority rights are exercised according to European standards, in which laws are respected, and institutions act, in which the commercial laws of business rule and where economic crime is eradicated, and corruption is reduced to the least. What would be more European than achieving these objectives in internal development and, of course, the accession policy here is in the first place. It is a policy that the European Union has already provided parameters, both regionally, in terms of its European Partnership Strategy and direct ones, concerning Serbia-Montenegro. We expect the completion of the feasibility study and, immediately afterwards, the launch of negotiations on the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is already clear to us that we must immediately begin the harmonisation of almost every law we have and that we will bring with the rules and legal norms of the European Union. The government will therefore develop a national accession strategy for the European Union, which will expose the basic elements of the accession policy and obligations of state bodies, economic operators and other social factors in this long-term process. To move from state institutions and states, and in what direction the government predicts changes in them, to the area of the economy. Right away, let me say that our citizens, our ordinary man, have faith in himself that Serbia's own power, which Serbia owns, is sufficient guarantee of the feasibility of the idea of an economically strong Serbia. Contrary to this faith, we see that Serbia has been living too long. A large number of people don't know how to make ends meet. By staying away from demagogy and any kind of irresponsibility, I will mention that the causes of the difficult economic situation in which we are located are not simple, are not from yesterday, and some come from the overall political opportunities that Serbia has gone through in the near and distant past. Focusing on the current situation in the economy, I would point out a few key problems that we need to face, aware of the fact that, if we want to make sure progress, short paths and simple solutions can't be. First of all, I would point out that it's not good that the state is burdening all those who work with high taxes. I mean, there's about 950,000 people out of work today, and a number of indicators are talking about surplus workers in many businesses. Production continues to fall. There are no funds in the budget to start investments, no money for agrarian, and no housing loans are available yet. At the same time, Serbia imports apples and wheat. Imports are bigger than exports for five billion dollars. The country's debt has reached $14 billion, and its payment commitments will grow in the coming years. The most basic programme goal of the new government's economic policy is to create conditions for competitive domestic production, to launch economic activity, to increase the share of domestic goods on our market and to speed up exports. This will allow more employment and keeping more money in our economy. The government will reduce taxes that burden production, customs policy and extra-tariff measures will make it more efficient, and will work to secure more favourable loans and start investments. The government will support a stable dinar course policy. We are aware that in the first period, the tax reduction mentioned will reduce income, which will compensate us for the higher tax on sales and excise duty, especially on luxury products and products harmful to health. It is clear that tax obligations are so distributed that the richer layers of the population take on a higher tax burden. Adequate customs policy, more efficient customs collection, as well as extra-carinal measures, will help sectors that have the opportunity to be competitive, to stand on their feet. And we will influence foreign producers, whose products are present on our market, to at least transfer some of the production to Serbia. We will prevent uncontrolled imports of goods at dumped prices and goods that do not meet the applicable standards. Exports will also be a priority in the ministry of economic relations with abroad, with the active attracting of foreign capital. We will establish the necessary institutions to secure export operations. In order to continue the necessary restructuring of the economy, one of the priorities of this government will be a careful analysis of the situation in each industrial sector individually and the adoption of appropriate strategic plans. Restructure of large systems does not have to and must not necessarily mean losing jobs if we try to reorient them to more profitable jobs within small and medium-sized enterprises, which are more flexible and easier to manage. When it comes to privatisation, it is necessary to consider the way in which the existing privatisation process can be improved and to remove the evident shortcomings. The change in ownership must be fair, swift and in general interest. The relevant legislation must protect the interests of the state and minority shareholders. Dispute privatisations, suspected of being damaged by public interest, not respect for the law or contracts, will be reconsidered. When it comes to agrarian production, a new and realistic system of monetary incentives will be introduced, which will allow long-term planning and ensure the necessary safety of farmers. We plan to carry out adequate customs and extra-carinal protection of domestic agriculture in order to prevent uncontrolled imports of basic agricultural products into the Serbian market, thus giving domestic producers a better chance. The aim of these measures will not be protectionism, but protection of one of the most valuable domestic resources – agriculture, in line with the standards of protection that benefits the European Nia. I would like to say, in particular, that one of the first tasks of the Ministry of Trade will be to shed light on all issues related to the existing sugar affair. This is not only a commitment to our citizens and the European Union, but also an economic priority, in order to ensure normal exports of agricultural products. The development and reform of traffic management should be financed from real sources - concessions, public and private partnerships, and in line with the development strategy, which is the basis for Serbia's further development. Of course, it is necessary to step up the work at the end of Corridor 10, making the road through Serbia the cheapest and safest road connecting the west with Southeast Europe. Social policies must be run by the state, not by companies. We will actively conduct social dialogue with all relevant partners, and all with the aim of finding solutions that will bring us all a better life. One of the first steps of the new government will be to conclude a social contract between representative trade unions, employers' and state associations. The health system is one of the best indicators on which the degree of development lies society. It will be all done to create conditions that our health system, which has long been in a poor material situation, provides opportunities for the right to health care, which is one of the most important objectives of our government. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to make changes to the relevant legislation, in particular in the Health Protection Act, as well as in the business of the Republic Health Insurance Office. The environment is the last domain of this area. The establishment of a single system of environmental protection and natural resources is one of the areas where legal measures need to be taken urgently to bring the standards of the European Union closer. The work of our government will be directed towards actively engaging the environmental protection portfolio in the process of economic reforms and privatisation. A few words about justice, the state administration and the necessary changes in this part of the state apparatus. In countries in transition, the judiciary is particularly important. It is clear that Serbia's judiciary is in very poor shape at the moment. It is characterized by a high degree of politicisation, inefficientness and unfortunately corruption. In addition to the long one-party abuse and forgetting the role of the judiciary in a democratic society, the collapse of our judiciary has also contributed to the violation of judicial independence in the adoption of an amendment to judicial laws. The unfavourable material position of the largest number of judicial employees has distanced a large number of professionals, and has made young and hardworking lawyers a judicial function insufficiently attractive. When it comes to the state administration and its reform, despite the fact that two bodies have been established in the meantime that were competent to deal with it, which are the Council for the State Administration and the Agency for the Development of State Administration, it is yet to be approached with the real redecoration of the state administration. It is necessary to develop a long-term management reform strategy, which is an integral part of our European integration processes, as soon as possible. The main objectives of the future redecoration of the state administration will, of course, be rationalisation, decentralisation, depolitisation and professionalisation of the administration. A special priority for the government is the adoption of a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which will prevent the exercise of state functions at the expense of public interest. A special priority for the government is the adoption and the law that would regulate the jurisdiction and functioning of an institution that should allow, in those cases where citizens have already received protection of their rights and that degree of protection are not satisfied, that security is also protected in another way, and it is about the institution of the Ombudsman or the national lawyer. Of course, it does not fall within the domain of the state administration in the strictest sense, but the government will see to it that a law on political parties is passed. I remind you of the fact that there is a law on party financing, not a law that regulates political parties. Of course the government will, when it comes to the so-called. Civil sector, come out with its proposal for a law on NGOs. It's an area that's completely unregulated, especially when it comes to non-transparentity, financial intransparency in this area, and I'm talking about NGOs. Although the new Law on Local Self-Government was passed in early 2002, one of the government's priorities will be a genuine reshuffle of local self-government, in the light of the process of comprehensive decentralisation of government and increasing the degree of financial autonomy of local self-government units. The interior ministry will be transformed into a professional body of state administration, which will fully respect human rights and the dignity of people, the Constitution, the law and international rules in its work. This ministry must be open to the public, politically neutral, and this will take care of essential national interests. The government's special priority in the interior area will be to shed light on all killings and attempted murders that occurred before and after October 5th, as well as major economic and monetary affairs that harass citizens. In the area of national security, the government will continue with the start of reforms in the BIA, which so far mostly were merely a formal character. We will seek to bring the area of national security into a state of security so that it can be said with certainty that its full depoliticalization has been carried out, that it has been freed from all the burdens of the past, and that the BIA is fully human, technical and technologically trained to perform its function. Finally, when it comes to justice and home affairs, which is what Serbia faces and has been facing all of its years in a difficult way, and it is co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The government will do anything to make this co-operation finally two-way. In this regard, among other things, we will seek to ensure that all legal, material and humane assumptions are made to speed up the trial of all war crimes indictees before domestic courts, that certain means of evidence against our citizens are obtained from the tribunal for use, as well as that adequate assistance is given to all of our citizens indicted by the tribunal in their defence against the tribunal. Also, we will seek to conclude a contract with the UN that would allow prison sentences, imposed by the tribunal's court councils in The Hague, to be served in our country. Something about government plans in the field of education, culture and science; in the end, as one of the fundamental pillars of the state, education must take its place as a driving force that enables the entire society to progress. In order to achieve this basic objective, it is necessary to build into the existing education system the best principles of national educational traditions and general principles and standards of the Member States of the European Union. In this business, we must, of course, take care of our national and cultural personality, and one piece of the specificity of existing institutions. In this context, we will propose amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Education, which will provide for the establishment of a national-enlightenment council as an independent professional body, composed of representatives of all relevant national institutions and educational and educational institutions. When it comes to science, we will form a national council for science, in which we will call on representatives of SAN and all prominent scientists from Serbia and the diaspora, we will increase investment in science and pass a law on scientific and research work. Finally, when it comes to culture, this government will clearly define what the national strategy of Serbian culture is. The project will be attended by a national council on Serbia's culture, in which we will call on the most competent representatives from all areas of culture. The goal is to adopt a national strategy to approach the restoration of culture, and we, as Government, will support the whole process by proposing legislation and increasing the budget for culture and, of course, science. We will encourage private entrepreneurship and initiative in the kutltura, and we will also support the cultivation of cultural heritage of all ethnic communities in Serbia. The new government will further regulate relations between states and religious communities, as previous laws in the area have been abolished. We'll do anything to correct the injustices, like nationalising the property of religious communities. In addition, the law will regulate the legal position of religious communities and enable the introduction of spiritual assistance to hospitals, homes for old and criminal institutions, as well as the determination of tax and other reliefs for religious communities. Taking into account the fact that a large part of our people lives outside Serbia-Montenegro's territory, the government of the Republic of Serbia considers it an obligation to create conditions that diaspora will allow for inclusion in political, economic and cultural life in the queen. The first necessary condition for this is already met by changing the electoral law. The next step will be to amend the Law on Citizenship, which will liberalise the regime of admission to citizenship of the Serb-born person and thus open the door to a more comprehensive exercise of the rights of the Serbian diaspora. The government will also work to correct two major injustices that have been done to a large number of people, many of whom today are in the diaspora, which is the return of seized property and rehabilitation of unjustly convicted. Finally, when it comes to national minorities, they are living witnesses to the history of this part of Europe. Often victims in the past, today they become a bridge between the people and one of the most important participants in the process aimed at reconciliation, understanding and building lasting trust in the region. In order for national minorities to participate fully in Serbia's political life, new amendments and additions to the electoral law have allowed minorities, as in some neighbouring countries, to receive their representatives in the Serbian Assembly based on natural censorship, as the government, on the other hand, will make sure that representatives of national minorities are properly represented in the executive government itself and administration itself. The territory of Serbia is home to a whole stadium of refugees, with 370,000 of whom more than 250,000 took Serbian citizenship. It is necessary to do everything to make life easier for them in the new environment or to enable them to return to homes that were forced to leave. That is why the government will provide full assistance primarily in resolving property issues in Serbia and resolving the same issues in countries where refugees have come from. There must be a way to facilitate the legalisation of newly built buildings, start the assignment of building land and provide full help in resolving unemployment. The refugee issue is no longer just a humanitarian issue, but an integral part of Serbia's development and social policy. It is particularly important to encourage regional co-operation, because without the co-operation of Croatia, BiH and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it is not possible to address this problem. Maybe you should, and maybe not, mention something that's last but not least, especially this year. It's about sports. Since we're in the Olympic Year, our government will do everything possible to create conditions for preparation and to perform the opposers in this year's biggest competition. Taking into account the importance of sport in our society and international reputation that thanks to the success of athletes achieves our country, I will urgently approach the adoption of a National Strategy in the field of sports and the development of the Sport Act, which will aim to define sports in our society in the long term. Starting with sports at this stage being financed from budgets and donations, we will also launch a public debate on the adoption of privatisation laws in sport. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very end of the day, words are revealed that seem to have some supernatural properties and meanings, words that must not be doubted, "words that force fear into bones. “ One of them is the word “reform. ” Is this government going to be reform? Each new government seeks to change something and succeeds more or less. If we look at electoral and post-election rhetoric in stable democratic states, you will see that it is a "reform" at the price, at least when it comes to individual areas: reforms in education, health, pension insurance. Call it what you will, but this government will try to change things in certain areas in the direction I have indicated, whether they call it reform or not. She won't have money drawn from citizens' pockets to pay for marketing bright and expensive campaigns to prove she's doing well. It will not prove that the burden of transition and reform should be most, if not exclusively, imposed on the people, but, on the contrary, that this burden should be borne by all: those who have more -- more, those who have less -- less. The only real court on how one government works can be given by national representatives in parliament and by the people themselves directly. This government will therefore seek to be responsible, which means that the other, the Assembly and the citizens, and not just her, will assess how successful she was in everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this was the shortest summary of the program, in a broader form, you will receive it after your break. In the end, I'd like to inform you of the composition of the future government. Since you will also receive biographical information about all members of the government, I will not be familiar with them now, I will read to you the names of government members: Miroljub Labus - Deputy Prime Minister, Dragan Jočić - Ministry of Interior, Mladjan Dinkic - Ministry of Finance, Zoran Stojković - Ministry of Justice, Zoran Lončar - Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ivana Dulic-Marković - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dragan Maršcanin - Ministry of Economy, Radomir Naumov - Ministry of Mines and Energy, Velimir Ilic - Ministry of Capital Investments, Bojan Dimitrijevic - Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Service, Predrag Bubalo - Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, Slobodan Lalović - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Aleksandar Popović - Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Environment, Ljiljan Dimitria Mustovića - Mustura – Mustura – Musturaćilića, Milića, Mil. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the exposés and a proposal of the government's composition, which was presented by Vojislav Kostunica, a candidate for Prime Minister. I'm giving you an hour's rest, and the text of the exposés and the biography of the government's members will be presented to you on your way out of the O.R. The work continues at 12.30 hours. [[After break – 12.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue our work, please determine if we have a quorum to discuss. I find that we have the quorum needed to continue the debate. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. A proposal by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u909	Ladies and gentlemen, based on Article 90. Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the DS Parliamentary List, I suggest a double time for discussion. It's about the exposé of the prime minister, it's about the ultimate state issue, whether or not we're going to be able to deal with the real problems that the state is dealing with today and we're all dealing with together. That's why we're proposing a double discussion time, which doesn't mean we'll always use it twice as much time at any time, but I think that possibility is very important for a quality debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u910	Any other suggestions? No, I don't. ) Before I put forward Mr Tadic's proposal, please let us determine if we have a quorum to decide on. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Who's to double the time of the debate on this agenda point? For 140, against 52, with six abstentions, 12 of the 210 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. Is there a report? There is. ) pursuant to Article 186(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for vice presidents and members of the government. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u911	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, we have had the opportunity to hear the exposés of the prime minister for the composition of the new republican government. At the very beginning, I can say, in a number of general estimates, that, in the opinion of the DS parliamentary group, this exposure is too general, without clear plans, without visions, without instruments to achieve the laggings facing the country, without concrete indications of how, for example, we would, for example, be able to overcome the decades-long technological lagging, in which way we will lead an effective monetary policy, provide new jobs, in which we will ever face the real problems of society. It is also evident in this exposé that the government does not assume on itself any concrete obligations, as well as deadlines for carrying out those obligations. It is evident that the government or mandater has no firm words to implement the policy, which best illustrates one of the last or last sentences: "This government will therefore seek to be responsible, which means that the other, the Assembly and the citizens, and not herself, will assess how successful it has been in all things." Of course, the Assembly and citizens will assess it, not the Government, and that is the loud right of citizens and their representatives in parliament, but no government can come out in the first days of its mandate with a different view -- "the government will be responsible, we promise that the government will be responsible". That's the attitude we expected in this exposé. I will look back at several of the speeches or texts that we later received about the future and strategy of this government. We agree that there are key problems to be addressed, which are necessary to form a national consensus. These are the issues of Kosovo and Metohija, these are also the issues of Serbia's European path, our position in European integration in the place that we belong to historically, geographically and culturally. These are also issues of co-operation with international institutions. This is also the issue of establishing a solid reformed, stable economy, which implies a stable macroeconomic policy. This is also a question that involves strong and clear coordination between the Central or National Bank and the finance minister. It is also a question of social agreement or a final treaty with trade unions or incentives to establish a contract between employers and employees; establishing a stable legal system; guaranteeing human rights; adopting laws that would reform this area; improving the conditions of enforcement. But that is also the question of inherited obligations, given the privatisation that has been made and the privatisation that will have to be done, and all in order to establish a new ownership structure in our society. Of course, the constitutional issue is one of the key things that we face. In the DS, we fully agree that adopting a new constitution is one of the priorities. It is very difficult to measure what is the key priority, but one of the priorities certainly, in agreement or in coordination with the accelerated, well-conceived and designed strategic shallowness. It is in the constitution that the issue of ownership is crucial, because what changes the structure of our society by its depth, by its verticality; it will change relations between citizens; it will make the whole system more efficient to ask a completely different question of labour relations, private entrepreneurship. Through the change in ownership structure, we will also change the structure of society, making society more modern, more flexible European integrations, which literally everyone in this assembly is behind, on the right and left of parliament. I don't think there's much dilemma here. We expected this exposure to itself to include clearer economic objectives of the government. One part of my time will be devoted to this particular subject. We expected that this exposure would at least reflect three key objectives that the government should achieve in the coming period in the area of the economy. It is a restructuring of public enterprises, restructuring of public consumption and deregulation, i.e. improving the overall business environment, which should provide new jobs, private entrepreneurship, individual entrepreneurship and overall growth of the economy in our society. There is no indication in this material that these three targets will be a key priority for the Serbian government. We think that's the problem. It is a problem that will leave a negative mark on the overall standard of living, the stability of our country, not only economically, but the consequent importance of our country's economy and political stability. Only one sentence mentions deregulatory, which should liberalise the conditions of engagement, but refers to legal projects already referred to by the previous government to parliament, such as the law on registration of economic operators, bankruptcy laws and the like, so that it can be concluded that the economic part of the exposé is not even a list of the best wishes, but a list of potential intentions, without taking responsibility, without clearly defined tasks, clear plans and objectives. That's the problem. In this exposé, we expected much clearer clues, precisely related to economic problems, because they are the key problems of the society in which we live. They're real problems. One exposé must be faced in a serious, quality way with real problems, whether they are inherited by a government in which the Democratic Party has just played a key role, or by a government in which the Socialist Party of Serbia played a key role, or, for a time, the Serbian Radical Party. The real problems of society are what every government must face, and this present, or future, which will be elected at this session, or some future after the next elections. I can note that a significant reduction in tax burdens has been announced in the economy, while increasing expenditure in the work of future social policy, agrarian budget, budget investment, budgetary recapitalisation of funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's where we're in front of one problem: you can't "and the goat and the money". So it would be ideal if it could, but it's not possible in any single government. Someone has a point that it's possible "and goats and money", but we know very well, and that's in our national tradition, that it's impossible, and it's especially impossible in a real-run economy. It is especially impossible in a society that has no means for long-term investment, which makes the interest on these funds extremely large, which is why we have cheap labour, but expensive money. As a result, there is no credit for residential construction to the extent that it is necessary and it is a key, fundamental, chronic problem of this society, because we are a company that is permanently or for a long time emptied from serious investment funds, which would ensure valid economic stability. We see here that government policy intends to be a social policy and to reduce taxes, but by increasing excise duties and other taxes on luxury products -- or on tobacco industry products, which is a particular problem, perhaps a few sentences later -- it intends to implement the idea of increased budget expenditures for budget users. I have to admit that for the first time I heard that sentence in the exposé of Milka Planinc in 1980 and that it was repeated from the government to the government. It is very important that our citizens and our politicians, and those who take responsibility, stop saying they will increase excise duties on luxury products, because neither luxury products are spent so much that this could provide the necessary budget resources for all those budget users who need more money. If we want to talk about real categories, it's just like that. That sounds very good at the very beginning of government work, but that doesn't solve the problem. The problem solves increased production, new jobs and opportunities to provide funds for the settlement of potential budget beneficiaries through tax cuts, with more production achieved and more jobs and contributions. No one is satisfied today with what they receive from the budget, not health care, not education, not the military, not the police, but it is very important that the exposé or economic strategy of government work be on real ground. And not to rely on what we've heard a thousand times so far and what doesn't increase the real resources in a budget that one such policy could lead. Secondly, the increase in excise duties on tobacco and additional segregation for tobacco industry products raises the question of the privatisation of the tobacco industry. We may have objections to privatisation, which has, by the way, been assessed by international institutions as one of the most successful, but the problem is the credibility of this country in front of potential international investors. Because those who entered the privatization of the tobacco industry did so with system laws and wanted to privatise the tobacco industry under conditions that are legally secure. We're talking about legal security elements here, we're talking about the conditions of adjudication, and we can't have these conditions for every potential investor in our economy, i.e. who will create new jobs, change from day to day, from government to government, because in this sense we will be an unstable investment zone and it is very dangerous for the future stabilisation of our economic and political system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u912	Excuse me, are you going to use the total time or from two parts?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u913	I'll use all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u914	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u915	If I don't use all the time, how much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u916	If you're not using the total time, then you've run out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u917	Then I use all the time. I had an inspiration about this exposé, so I got a little carried away with time. That's good. In the Democratic Party, it is not clear to us how new customs and extra-tariff barriers are suddenly announced, given the fact that it is one of the creators of liberalisation in our economic policy, Mr Labus and Dinkic, people who occupy key economic and ministerial portfolios right in this domain. There are key contradictions in what we've got in basic material. There are contradictions that could indicate that this government will not work in a stable way and will not do the job for which it is formed. We are, of course, in favour of stabilising the legal system and introducing a rule of law. The Democratic Party advocates the fight against corruption and the adoption of new laws that prevent conflict of interest. The Democratic Party wants and wants us to clear up every affair in this society. That is why we have voted today to form a polling committee and we will vote on any establishment of a survey committee that will work to clear up financial and business affairs. Let me remind you, affairs didn't start in 2000. There was a wheat affair involving many businessmen, politicians of the previous regime, and there were a dozen affairs in the ten-year rule of the Socialist Party of Serbia. We do not want any mercy for the Democratic Party's participation in the government. We are absolutely certain that our participation was also very good for the benefit of citizens and this country, but we want these things to be discussed. Let them argue through survey committees, discuss themselves in a public debate and finally put an end to who they are, who wasn't involved in the affair, who destroyed our economic potential, who contributed to its construction, so that we could form a modern and stable society. As far as education is concerned, we had several indications in the mandater's exposé that a national council would be formed, as well as in the domain of science. However, I must say that this in itself, perhaps, does not mean anything in particular. The question arises what will be the relationship to the reform laws already passed in the area of education. The question arises how education will be treated, whether it will be a developmental resource of society, or whether it will be treated as a single polygon in which we will practice or demonstrate our relationship to tradition. The fundamental question is that education is treated as a developmental resource of society, as part of economic policy in the future. If that does not happen, we will have a permanent technological lagging, we will have chronic problems in the society in which we live and we will not be able to activate our human resources or capacities in that domain in the way that we can do it. Overall, I think that this exposé was full of general places, good wishes and the problem of the one who discusses the exposé is that there are no real and clear plans that could be properly discussed and taken seriously in criticism, because everything is in general form. I have to say that the motions for cabinet members in some cases deserve respect. That's what I want to say openly in front of the Democratic Party. There are very professional people, honest people, who have contributed with their work to the reputation of their own professions and so far's work in the government have contributed to the establishment of a more stable work of the government. I can't understand why Mr. Milosavljevic's biography doesn't say he was a minister in the previous government. It doesn't have to be written, I think it can be to the pride of Minister Milosavljevic and there's no problem. However, I must admit that here one name, as far as I'm concerned, is causing a dispute. It is a candidate for Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, who became judge of the District Court in Belgrade in 1980. Those who did not participate in opposition work at the time were on the side of the government, they may not remember, but those who were involved in opposition work, and in the DSS the most, remember Mr Zoran Stojkovic as the man who led the process of six, where Vojislav Seselj was also involved in some way as a witness, not as the accused then, but as a witness, at the time of the then opposition which was very fragile, but fought against the dictatorship of the one-party system. Judge Stojkovic is also a man who banned and ordered the destruction of the book of Nebojsa Popov in 1968 and democratic changes in the 1960s. Proposing Judge Stojkovic as justice minister is at least controversial. I do not wish to invalidate Mr Stojkovic's professional qualities, but this is a completely illogical solution, given the long-standing, decades-old struggle to establish a multi-party system, pluralism in the political sector and freedom of opinion. That, to remind you, was the last book to be destroyed by a revolutionary decision. The Minister of Justice will be the man who made the last court decision to destroy books without reminding you of the thoughts of the great people about where those who destroy books go and that is a very serious question. Once again, I would like to say this: this exposure to us from the Democratic Party does not give us the confidence that the job which will result in the government's completion. But at the same time, because of Serbia, because of the interests of the citizens of this country, we want this government to succeed. I want to say it in public. We want concrete problems to be solved that the state is facing. The democratic party will be a constructive opposition to this government and parliamentary majority, which is formed and formed through the formation of the government. We will vote for some laws that we consider to be good, and for laws that we will not vote for. We will be an extremely sharp critic of everything the government does badly, we will take care of how you behave, how you will solve the problem of conflict of interest, with the dynamics of which the parliamentary majority will adopt new laws, shape and give a new spirit of work to this Parliament, and in any case, because of Serbia and Serbian citizens, we want this government to solve the problems we face today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u918	The word was Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has finally been formed today. After two months of negotiation, negotiation, blackmail, pressure, one party has decided to be a bypass party and to allow the government to form against the interests of most citizens in Serbia, and further to say against the SRS. Many things are allowed in the parliamentary struggle, many of the negative citizens are tied to politicians, so this move is not a surprise for Serbian citizens either. I remind MPs of the party's bypass to prepare today to trample their 14-year existence, that they will in a certain way desecrate both Serbian history and Serbian graves, that they will trample hundreds of thousands of their members who are victims of October 5th, in particular the spine of the Serbian economy by October 5th, and that they will especially sin against hundreds of people, including their president, who are in The Hague because of ideology, whose creators today support their rivals from 1990 and rivals of their ideologies, who were warmly supported by yesterday. One more thing, I've heard a lot of stories about why the SRS can't lead Serbia, so I ask you not to lie anymore, especially when you go around the world and when someone asks you what the SRS is, and I especially ask you not to lie that the SRS can't rule because it supported the SPS when it ruled, and that the SPS can support this government even though it ruled. That you don't lie when you say the SRS can't rule, because it supported the SPS, and that the SPO can rule, even though it supported the SPS. To be clear with the lies once, it'll be easier for all of us and we'll all be able to do this job. The government is suggesting changes in the state. I will quote only briefly: "If essential autonomy is the formula by which Resolution 1244 provides self-government of Kosovo and Metohija in relation to Serbia, then the essential autonomy of the Serb community is the new formula which provides this community with the basic conditions of survival in today's Kosovo and Metohija... The essential autonomy of the Serb community in Kosovo means territorial autonomy (sharing of entities, i.e. the cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija), as well as cultural and personal autonomy." I must ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia where it finds its foothold, on what is this position based? When did the citizens of Serbia, at which referendum or at which session of the National Assembly decide to cantonize Kosovo and Metohija, decide to divide into entities and where the border is drawn on which entities will be divided, which Serb village will remain in the Albanian entity, which the Serbian mother will cry because her child cannot go to school and is not under the protection of the Serbian military and police, but is under the protection of KFOR, which claims that Serbia has no jurisdiction in Kosovo and Metohija? Is the government okay with this? As far as I know, at least one member of the government, at least one political party that enters the government today claims that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent and advocates independent Kosovo and Metohija in its political programme. If the fate of Kosovo and Metohija separates you, which I think is what fatefully separates political parties in Serbia, not what the prime minister on the other side said that, regardless of the difference, it makes us want to go to Europe. In my opinion, the first thing we should have said was that we were drawn up by the desire to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue, which is where we, especially Serbs, define ourselves. If Kosovo and Metohija separate you, what brings you together in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Money, which means power, because money in Serbia always brings power. I recommend that you do not deal with this issue the way you started. You will also have support from parliamentary groups and all members of the SRS in efforts to respect Resolution 1244, that the Serbian military and police in a limited number, in a number that is measured hundreds and not thousands, at limited locations, but in a door to Kosovo and Metohija. And you won't have our support to share Kosovo and Metohija, to unload it, you don't have our support and you didn't get support in the elections to solve the fate of Kosovo and Metohija in any other way. Don't say you're not for independent Kosovo and Metohija, and then what is this for you? What, then, is this country that would look like some kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina with entities that, under pressure, would live together with an Serb entity, in which we might be able to provide some security for the Serbs. They have it now, even though they're not an entity where they're mostly. I ask you what about villages, settlements, churches, houses in populated places where Serbs are not in most? The government says it will do everything possible to strengthen the common state, to practically design and functionally strengthen Serbia-Montenegro's state union. Don't tell us fairy tales. Serbia-Montenegro is facing an unresolved problem. The problem is the separatism of ruling parties in Montenegro. The ruling parties in Montenegro do not recognise a state called the Serbia-Montenegro state union. No session of the joint parliament has been held in the last five months. The embassies include ministers from Montenegro who do not recognise the state they represent. You may know that an attempt is an organisation of a quiz about Serbian history, about 200 years of a newer Serbian history, among our children living abroad. Wherever the consul or ambassador from Montenegro is, he has prevented children from participating. He said he didn't care. You will already have a problem at the first session of the joint assembly whether there is a state of Serbia-Montenegro and that is an alarming problem. I suggest a different way of solving this problem, so we don't lie anymore, that we don't make it up anymore. You can't take this anymore. The citizens of Montenegro should have the right to decide whether they will live with us in the common state or not, and their will will be for us. Our will is undeniable. Serbia has no reason to break up, go out or in any way tear apart the Serbia-Montenegro community. This big, we can always take the little ones who want to live with us, and it doesn't cost us at all, except that they need to live with us and what they need to live with us. And to live with us fictitiously, to share with us all the functions that exist in the state, to share with us the national wealth and political reputation that we gain, and to keep saying how they can't wait when we're going to part, so that's immoral. If DOS was willing to do so while he was in power, and he was in favor of all kinds of blackmail, you don't have to. You have the strongest opposition anyone has ever had in the Serbian Parliament. You have a Serbian Radical Party, but on this issue we will not be your opposition. We want to help you on this issue, but to get rid of it, not to stall and make a mess of this again. Why wait another year for Montenegro to hold a referendum? What's going to happen positive in that year? It happened positively. We won the presidential elections, won the parliamentary elections, raised the morale level of those who want to live with us in Serbia, freed themselves on the list, raised their heads, and apparently that those who exercise power in Montenegro are no longer so easy to reach for a referendum on secession. We are now looking for this referendum because we will never suffer blackmail, ever. We are the opposition party in Serbia, but Serbia is no longer able to withstand the terror that the leadership and government of Montenegro is taking over all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u920	Do you use double time?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u921	Yeah. These stories about the European Union, I leave you to speak freely, hold seminars about it, scientific gatherings, but if you want to come out here honestly and tell you what Western diplomats say, then you will repeat what they told me. On my claim that we were at least 10 years away from the European Union, a Western diplomat told me I was an optimist. So when you run the country, don't tell us you're going to get us into the European Union. We'll come in when they want us. This is how the poor don't want us. You can prepare 100,000 laws, change them, prepare them, but whoever's impoverishing us certainly doesn't want us in the European Union, and that's stories for little children. On page 5, you're calling for imports bigger than five billion dollars' worth of exports and a debt that has reached $14 billion. Ask the party now entering the government how it happened and whose fault it is. I'd even personalize two people from that party. He will now be in the most important places in your government. Will you stop it? You'll get out of the government. You won't be able to stop it. They're monetaryists who run the state like that. They're in charge, they're in charge, they're in charge, they're holding a steady dinar for three years until all your production fails, and especially the production for export, and then there's going to be some new government that's going to promise to cut the deficit. With what? Which slave, ladies and gentlemen, you represent most, most of whom will choose the government. Never forget, this is the first time that only most MPs choose the government. This people don't choose the government, but most MPs ask you what policy, what kind of production do you mean to reduce the trade deficit? Of course, what personal solutions, when you know that all the finances are in the hands of one political party, that all investments and donations are in the hands of the other political party, and that you who are making the skeleton of this government are left to spend the budget and that you are talking to strikers, because there will be no money for education, jurisprudence, education, health care, military, police. There won't be enough money for anyone, but that's why finance and investment will be for one party. You were talking about privatisation, not mentioning that you would be reviewing all the privatisations that have been made so far, all of them. We disagreed with the law, but all the privatisations made in accordance with the law remain forever. All contracts which are respected shall be valid, but if the contract was not in accordance with the law or if it was in accordance with the law, which is not respected, you have no privatisation. That's gotta go away right now. It's an honest and honest government, which is not corrupt by privatisation, it has to do. You say joining the European and World Trade Organisation will include our agriculture in the international market, but taking into account the interests of our farmers and our agricultural industries, and you know that we include them in the market in which countries subsidise their agricultural production. In fact, we are going to include our market among their producers, as we have given this so much praised privatisation of the tobacco industry to the monopolies, or maybe you don't know it, so you're just going to find out now. What will our agricultural producers get by joining Europe? What's more expensive than our farm products in Europe? What product can our stockbroker sell more expensive than we buy here? You know, at what prices we buy out the wheat, and how much a farmer could get on the stock market. A peasant must be truly cared for. You have an agrarian budget, don't spend it on funding radio-television as your predecessors. Use it to help the peasant. You're talking about electricity. Oh, my God, that's where one part of the government is going to fall. If the survey board finishes its work, you will face irrefutable facts, in front of evidence, and will owe it to your new Energy Minister to appear before the survey board. He's got a lot to explain to us. You'll see who's been robbing Serbia for the past few years. If you stop it, it's an honor. We'll provide enough evidence, and the survey board won't be able to convict, they won't be able to detain. It will remain on you to see how sincere you are when you say that you will provide electricity, import and export supplies, and I am telling you that there is now, only that we import when we can't import and we export when we can't export. We're selling our electricity for nothing, and we're buying in terrible sizes. Assemble yourself, advance the survey board, at the beginning of the year, the amount of electricity is negotiated. Whoever immediately provides 20% more electricity from imports than we need, determine in 95% of the cases that sell us electricity, imports, exports, what that company is called and whether you know this man, Mr. President, whether your party members know him, whether he's hanging out with him. Then I'll really believe you that in Serbia you can do well. Secure the treatment of the poorest layers of the population, I haven't read here that it will be free. Provide a judicial budget, if you claim that the judiciary will be independent, provide the Supreme Court with a judicial budget. Not that the minister of justice buys a car and takes it to a municipal court in some city, so that, as in the ministry's name, he presents it to the ministry, but that the judiciary only provides its incomes with its existence, so that it does not depend on us. Make sure that no members of political parties sit in the Constitutional Court, and now they sit and decide. All the political parties in the DOS in power have inserted their judges into the Constitutional Court, as if that were the most important. Something that's before this, which is most important to me, which is internal affairs and lighting up all the murders and attempted murders before and after October 5th. What about October 5th, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are you ready to determine what was going on on October 5th? Do you see that he has brought us one of the greatest tragedies in Serbia's history? You can see it all starts on October 5th. Last night, someone on state television held back, Serbia's third democratic power is being elected today, the democratic government, I believe, has been wasting since October 5th, the third democratic government. You started your life on October 5th. Include that in October 5th. That's when the crime exploded in Serbia. At that time, when revolutionaries broke into state institutions with guns, they took them over, and for three or four months they worked in them without a solution, without being set up. As far as I know, the governor of the National Bank has never been elected governor, as long as he's represented himself as governor, or I'm wrong about something... (President: Time. That's what happened to all the institutions. I'd end up with the largest early Serbian, and that's The Hague tribunal. Mr. Prime Minister, not enough of what you said. You'll find yourself facing a serious problem, you haven't told us how it's going to be solved here. You know that four generals should be handed over to The Hague tribunal and that this is a noose about the government, about the neck of every government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to help you not to be extradited, but you have to say it here. I don't want you to negotiate secretly and nobody knows what you're talking about. I don't want anyone in Serbia sacrificed so some others won't be prosecuted. I want us to establish a policy here, which you call a two-way policy, and now I'd like to go to a one-way policy with the Hague tribunal. That first course of extradition is over. The rest is now, Mr. President, to raise your voice whenever human rights are violated by Serbian citizens trapped in The Hague. Now they're breaking in oneness. It remains to assist the full defence of all Serbian citizens in The Hague tribunal and remains to help their families. Obviously, there are a lot of people out there who have never committed any war crimes and never committed any crime. It is obvious that the story with Serbs as a genocide has failed, that the story with Slobodan Milosevic has failed, that it is the world's most guilty of everything that is happening in the world. Now get your head up. Now you have a large part of the world's public opinion, a large part of the world's professional public, you have half the process of Slobodan Milosevic, in which it has only been proven not to be guilty. There's only half left, where we have the right to prove that we're not guilty. You have many prisoners there no one cares about anymore and no one cares about them, and they are citizens of Serbia. You will have our support that no more citizens of Serbia are extradited to The Hague. That support will be all the way. Address those who need it immediately, those who have established it and say that Serbia will no longer extradite. If you don't say that, it means you want to extradite, and here you create an illusion that you won't. I would like everything to finally be in Serbia clean and clear. We'll be your constructive opposition, which means we'll be watching as soon as we can get you out of power. I know why I told you this, and I just don't know if it'll do you any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u922	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u923	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is known that the SPS has made it known to end the agony that existed in Serbia. I would like to remind you that there was a blockade of institutions in Serbia, that Serbia has not had the President of the Republic since the end of 2002 and in early 2003, that Serbia has not had the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 13 November 2003 and that, practically, until a few weeks ago, there was a blockade of parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. During that time, the economic and social situation deteriorated from day to day. Those who were in the outgoing phase were day-to-day inciting the sale of what is called social capital and Serbia's public well-being. The state union's blockade of Serbia-Montenegro has deteriorated from day to day, as we have seen at the meetings of the Committee on Defence and Security, the security situation in southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, and as we all know, there have been clearly expressed separatist tendencies in Vojvodina as well. Waiting for the institutions to unblock, those who so convincingly lost in the past snap parliamentary elections ruled. If there is one principle in forming a government, it is precisely that the Serbian government will act and support those who have advocated and led policies against the government of the Republic of Serbia in the pre-election campaign. It is known that 80% of Serbian citizens voted against the government's policy in previous elections. It is known that it has been all these few months, and it has lasted this yearning to have this government remain in power for as long as possible. It is also known that no political party, no parliamentary group won an absolute majority in the parliamentary elections. The SPS immediately said it would be good for Serbia to form a government, such as the SRS and proposed, the SRS and the DSS, without entering a proposal that was also under the pre-election campaign to agree on it by the three largest political groups: the radicals, the DSS and the DS. But it is known that this government is not formed. Speaking of Bay-Pass, the SPS has remained out of the aspolutal majority since 1992. She didn't have enough MPs to form a government on her own. She was in power eight years after that. So ask yourselves, who was all the Bae-dog to the SPS for the eight years. I can say openly that there is no party in Serbia with which the SPS has not cooperated for eight years and that it will not cooperate in the coming period. Everybody knows that. I don't know who's contesting it here, but don't make me say who we were in the coalition with and who supported the SPS. It is well known that when there is no absolute majority that no government is ever formed by political like-mindeds, because if they were like-minded, they would certainly not be in more political parties. It is well known, so it was before all parliamentary elections, from 1992 to today. The SRS also knows, because by 1997, until then, the regular parliamentary elections, it represented a policy that was directed both against Slobodan Milosevic and against the SPS, and after the elections, when an agreement with the SPO failed, the government with the SRS was made. It's not a problem and it's a principled political issue. Now the SRS has offered the DSS coalition, citing that there are a lot of touch points with the party. This previous government, which is still in power, I hope for a very short time, was neither reformal nor democratic. She promised citizens a better life and more democracy. What did Serbian citizens get from October 5th to today? They received a social product today at the level of the 1997 and 1998 state products. They have received a level of industrial production that is lower than in the years that the current government of the Republic of Serbia and the Democratic Party characterise as the years of the greatest destruction. We got Serbia with the highest unemployment rate in Europe. Almost a million unemployed. In three years, 400,000 people were fired from work. More than 300,000 people work in bankrupt companies. Not to mention foreign debt, larger than two billion dollars, in three years our war will be a billion dollars. An external trade deficit the largest in Serbia's history. Six times higher taxes and imposed on Serbian citizens than it was before 5 October 2000. Did six times increase income, industrial production and the standard of living of citizens, such as six times the pressures. Not to mention privatisation and corruption. Privatisation and corruption; the SPS did not vote in favour of the Privatisation Act. As far as corruption is concerned, it is well known that corruption is suspected and will soon be indicted and the head of former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's cabinet, a member of the National Security Council, Mr Janjusevic, and also stressed that it was taken from the privatisation of Paracinal, or Cementara in Novi Popovac. There are other examples of corruption in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, during the previous government, the Prime Minister was killed. The Prime Minister has been killed, this tragic event has not been lit up until today. At a time of emergency, which was introduced in an unconstitutional manner, there was an abuse of state of emergency in the fight against political opponents. arrests and detentions without a decision by the competent court, media censorship, listening. On the Committee on Defence and Security of Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic yesterday, he said the MUP does not stand behind statements issued during the state of emergency. Then who's behind it? As you know, the theft of the mandate, the theft of votes, has been abolished by TV transmissions, destroyed institutions in Serbia. In addition to all the differences that exist between parties, it is clear that the SPS has many differences compared to the parties that will make up the Republic government. It is clear that the SPS remains behind everything its political programme is, that it remains also for Serbia as a state of social justice, but also for the protection of national and state interests. What is what we expect of the Serbian government? We expect it to do everything to preserve Serbia's unity, against its breaking and its federalisation. We expect there to be a preservation and strengthening of Serbia-Montenegro's unity or a peaceful agreement on the disintegration and disintegration, or as it is said, of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. We expect to ensure the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, with respect and consistency of implementation of Resolution 1244. We expect to do everything to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation, to do everything possible to shorten this period until our country's entry into the EU and other international organisations and institutions. Of course, we expect that much will be done to develop democratic relations and strengthen the dignity and authority of institutions in Serbia. We expect an institutionalised attitude towards the processes that are being conducted in The Hague. We expect our citizens, who may be suspects or accused before The Hague tribunal, to be tried before domestic courts. And, of course, we expect that the government will not go below the current government's decisions on relations with The Hague tribunal. Also, the institutionalised attitude towards the processes in The Hague implies that the state must be aware that these are not only trials for some individuals who are there, but these are processes behind which the country and the people, related to possible verdicts, will be affected by all citizens, not just individuals indicted before The Hague tribunal. What the SPS particularly expects is to raise the rate of social product, industrial production and the standard of living of citizens. Without it, every government will fail the exam. There is no better life for citizens without raising a social product, without growing industrial production, without starting a domestic economy. We expect a reduction in unemployment and poverty. We're expecting a social dialogue with the unions. We expect amendments to the Law of Labour and the Law on Privatisation, against which the SPS voted. We expect a review of irregularities in the current course of privatisation. We expect the fight against crime and corruption, regardless of who it is, are they members of the ruling coalition, the opposition or any other citizen of this country? I also want to say here in full clarity and openness, the SPS insists that all crimes, all crimes, attempted crime, corruption, crime, links with criminal clans, abuse of official office, etc.; to be precise, both before and after 5 October 2000. I don't take October 5th as a significant date at all. It doesn't matter who the perpetrator of the crime is, whether there's a desire for those acts to be enlightened, that the perpetrators of the punishment and, of course, to solve these issues once and for all. (President: Are you using total time? Yes. The SPS will not participate in the government. We don't want any part of the government or political trade. We are interested in the government of the Republic of Serbia's programme and policy. We are interested in the results of the Serbian government. I want to be precise here to say that we talked and reached a political agreement with the DSS. We are not entering a coalition agreement signed by three electoral lists to form the government. Also, we're not getting into their personnel proposals. For the work of the government and human resources, responsibility is borne by all those who will exercise power and do government. The SPS will support the government of the Republic of Serbia as long as it recognises in its work the objectives and policies outlined today by Prime Minister and future Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, as long as the government is working in the interests of citizens, states and peoples. We want this government to be democratic, to take care of national and state interests, to be reformal but also in the interest of Serbian citizens, and to be focused on European and world integration processes. We want Serbia to gain political stability, to unblock institutions, to break out of the past. It's time for Serbia to look back. If anything is good from all this that's been happening, it's been good for the intent, trying to bring down the Berlin walls that exist between parties and political groups in Serbia, artificially divided into these or those blocks, natural and unnatural allies, to principled and non-civil coalitions. It is not time for Serbia to see who it cannot with, but how we all can and must work in the interests of Serbia and in the interests of Serbian citizens. We expect Serbia to turn to solving the most important life problems of all citizens. And last time in the debate, it seems to me that the deputy president of the SRS also stressed that Serbian citizens expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to form as soon as possible. The government should address the basic life problems of citizens and the problems we face as a people and as a state. That is why we will vote in favour of the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, that the sooner those who have so far ruled so recklessly and absolutely, and with so little national support leave. Both are good for Serbia, and this is the moment for all of us, you will admit, most importantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u924	Replica, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u925	I know what it's like in my predecessor's soul, so I don't want to be too hard on him. But let me get this straight right now. Yes, we supported Slobodan Milosevic, but you're not even for that little black under his fingernails. Just so you know. We'll back him as long as he's in The Hague, and you know it. You can give up on him as much as you want. When we didn't support him? When these others supported him, by 1997, but then you betrayed Krajina and Republika Srpska. When did we join the government with Slobodan Milosevic? I am a witness when Vojislav Seselj and Slobodan Milosevic gave hands and said, "Let's defend Kosovo and Metohija to the end". He knows who shot down the head among you, who cried with me in the cabinet when you handed over Kosovo and Metohija, and he also said that some of the higher national interests, God will level us with the ground if we don't accept that we surrender Kosovo and Metohija, so you asked SPO support in this assembly, to vote the withdrawal of our army and police from Kosovo and Metohija. These are all historical facts. You can come out of your own party and come back. The party has a course and that course has always been set by Slobodan Milosevic. Now that party has no course and it will be seen very soon. I understand your demands. I thought there'd just be boards and apparitions. No, you expect the government of the Republic of Serbia not to have any choice. Well, there's going to be a choice this year, so we'll see who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u926	I ask the MPs to adjust their language to the institution in which they are located. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u927	I am not asking to determine whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured, I am merely pointing to Mr Nikolic, since we know each other very well, that we still make sure that we address each other and avoid offensive tones. As far as aposing, I've told him more than once, and he knows it, and the SRS knows, when someone supports the minority government, there's no bigotry. On the other hand, it is clear that there are political differences between us. It is not our fault that Serbia could not otherwise form the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do not blame us for not making a marriage between those to whom the offer was first made. Please do not interfere with the SPS in your relationship. Don't talk about Slobodan Milosevic, because if you wanted to help him in 2000, when he fought Kostunica, Toma Nikolic would not be his opponent and took 400,000 votes, as short of Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u928	Replicate, then pause.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u929	Now I have to call Milomir Minic, who witnessed an agreement on how we're going to go to the election. But you were so convinced in the victory of Slobodan Milosevic, that during the talks, you said, "You know who our common candidate is." We say, "Who is it? "Well, they say, "Free Milosevic." We say, "Why? "Well, "Because he's a Free Milosevic." That was your argument. That's what happened. I wish I had taken more votes, if Vojislav Kostunica hadn't won, everything would have happened differently in Serbia, I'm convinced. But even though you hurt the Rules of Procedure, I don't know what basis you went out on. I can't find a word for something you said here. If marriage is between spouses and not concluded, in what role is the SPS now, when does a marriage not participate in?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u930	The work continues at 15.00 hours. Please allow us to proceed precisely at 3:00 p.m. because there are over 50 registered MPs. [[After break – 15,25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. I understand we have a quorum to continue the debate. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If not, we are moving on to the list of elected Members. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u932	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, among the many things mentioned in the platform of candidates for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I will talk about three goals set and our determination to support what it says in the platform, because we think this is of great importance to Serbia. In fact, it is necessary for the future government to do everything possible to contain the corruption that exists in Serbia, to do as little crime as possible, since it is difficult to say that it disappears, and to do everything possible to bring unsolved murder cases to their logical end, to get a judicial epilogue. The assumption of this is, of course, strengthening the rule of law, building broken institutions, respect and law enforcement, equalising citizens before the law, removing the policy of double arches and all that has not been in Serbia in the past three years. The future government is waiting for hard work, I will start with the issue of corruption, since it has been very much. But, on the other hand, when it comes to results, it will certainly be, because even the least it will do, it will be much more than what the government has done so far, because it has done nothing. We heard just before from the representatives of the current government one statement, that they support the resolution of all affairs and the like and advocacy to establish committees of inquiry. That definition was not expressed when they were in power and were able to do all of it. Because over the past three years in Serbia, according to various political analysts, there have been about 60 affairs, of which 20 have the character of significant affairs. For these affairs, it is characteristic that they functioned according to certain rules. Of course, a few information is published, according to the rule of political opponents, possibly a conflict within the DOS. The opposition, as a rule, adheres to as negative an epithet as possible, without being able to answer the other side. Of course, the facts and arguments nobody mentions. There's an orchestrated campaign going on in public, by the media for a certain time, a week, two, three and nothing after that. The affair, as a rule, is being replaced by someone else, and the previous one is not being talked about, and no one in power, especially those who staged the affair, wanted these things to end, to determine the truth and possible guilt. On the contrary, almost all the affairs were left without a logical epilogue. Of these 20 significant affairs, due to the shortness of time, I will mention only a few of the most large, so far unfinished: the March 2002 spy affair; the main character was the then Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia; then you know the sugar affair; the May 2001 tobacco affair; unfortunately, the August 2001 Gavrilovic murder; the October 2002 Orao affair; the "Difens Road" of December 2002; the 2003 affair of money laundering; the March 2003 sugar affair, which also takes place today; the bickering of government members from April 2003, who went to Schiller and who associated with whom. No one found it appropriate, and I mentioned several affairs that seemed to have shaken Serbia to resolve these issues, to clarify all matters to the end and to get these affairs a court epilogue. I must say that the true paradigm of the relationship between the government and the affairs of the time can be seen when the government's relationship with the spy affair is observed. Remember, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had an affair of listening and a joint session of two committees over a statement by a person following the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic. In the first case, we had an example of the Deputy Prime Minister being caught in a public place handing over documents to a foreign diplomatic representative. Instead of lighting up all the elements, all the facts, to determine what was going on, which is why, you remember, there's shit up, the military authorities are accused of overstepping powers. Of course, the government was looking to minimise the case, not to talk about it in public, as little as possible, so that the DOS wouldn't stick to a negative image. In fact, their entire policy on the prevention of affairs and on resolving issues in Serbia was guided by this policy as best as possible by the public image. On the other hand, we had here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I mentioned, an affair of listening and a joint session of two committees, when we had a few days of direct transmission from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, prepared emissions, prepared witness statements. And of course, the point of the story was to accuse a political opponent of doing something wrong, without proof, because the whole story lasted a few days. It's the best proof of how it was then, and we don't think it should ever be allowed again. Serbia needs institutions. It is necessary to resolve the questions asked and, of course, to bring justice to those who need it. I must say that criminal charges have been filed against us, members of the Socialist Party of Serbia since March 2001, but this is an interesting example of how we should not work. Instead of taking these criminal charges, if someone is guilty of finding fault, these criminal charges were, above all, used as a good marketing weapon, to make the opponent, i.e. We, the more mud and anathemis, and there's a negative image in public. Because these applications have been practically since March 2001 and have not been resolved to this day. So DOS had double arches. He could, and he didn't want to, the DOS was the state of Serbia at the time, those issues to solve, but it was important for the opponent to stick to the negative label. We've heard it's proposed to form a survey board. When we, as the opposition then, together with some other parties in this House, asked that polling committees be formed on many issues, we did not come across the understanding of the then assembly majority and the need for some issues to be resolved. We have proposed the establishment of a survey committee to identify all elements and facts related to the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic. It wasn't supposed to be. We asked for a survey committee to be formed to determine all the elements and facts related to cigarette smuggling. It wasn't supposed to be. I also mention Mr. Djindjic's tragic murder. And at that time, we felt that the polling committee on such a tragic event was appropriate, in order to determine all the elements and facts related to it. It didn't want to. Of course, some kind of justice was exorcised. So, of course, it's no longer necessary and it can't be. The second question is crime. Crime should be contained in Serbia and a link should be established between criminals, organised crime members and representatives of the previous government and the links that existed before and after October 5th, who hung out with and for whom, who gathered in Schiller and toasted, how criminals were released, why people with a criminal past were engaged in state affairs and many other things, but without marketing, but with a desire to really determine the facts. We believe that a white book or white books owned by the MUP should be closed, because in 2002, during a debate here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we heard from the mouth of the then minister that the MUP owns white books, where all persons involved in crime in Serbia were numbered. To this day, it remains unclear why these people are not arrested, why they are not brought to justice and the crime rate is likely to decrease, and Serbia is much cleaner without crime. Finally, let me say a few words about another subject, a human very difficult, and politically, unfortunately, too exposed over the past three years, and this is about cases of murders that occurred in Serbia in the past period. I say, over the past period, not making a difference between the period before and after October 5th, because murder is murder, man is human, but you can't apriorize a murder to some murder -- politically, because it can only be done when the judicial authorities finish the job, when a court ruling is handed down, and when a motive determines that he had a political dimension. I'm saying this because for us, the SPS members, unfortunately, all the murders are the same, and they all need to be expelled in front of justice, and the killing of Deputy Minister of the then Stojcic, and the murder of Pavel Bulatovic, the Minister of Defence, and Slavko Curuvija, the journalist, and the murder of the Ibaric magistrate, the death of four, and the murder of Ivan Stambolic, and the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, and the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and the murder of journalist Pantic and the murder of police general Bosko Buha. All of this and some of the other murders I mentioned should be solved. We, members of the SPS, MPs of the SPS, are looking for and telling all those who mention these cases, of course political marketing, or if they say that in the past three years Serbia has not been able and ready to know the truth, that they now have a chance to find out the truth and let that truth be told to Serbia. We're ready to hear the truth, whatever it is, but trust me, we SPS members seem to be the only ones who want that truth. We don't deserve to carry that rock around our necks, and there's always some respect for us, so we're asking that these questions be resolved, so as far as they are concerned, be it for him, but it's certainly the best thing for Serbia, because once we have to leave that question behind and turn to the future. And that is why it is good for this future government and these issues to be resolved, because it will be better for everyone and for Serbia the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u933	The People's MP Drusan Petrovic has the word, followed by the MP Aleksandar Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u934	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to refer to a few accentes from the Prime Minister's exposé that we had the opportunity to hear this morning. The issue of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. According to the exposé, there are strong historical reasons to maintain, advance and nurture Serbia-Montenegro's state connection. Then, "departing from these truly fundamental reasons, this government will do everything in its field of competence to practically design and functionally strengthen the state union of Serbia-Montenegro". The Democratic Party A to S supports this view. It is one of the cornerstones of the policy of the Democratic Party, and during the time that the Prime Minister was Mr Zoran Djindjic, and later, he tried to carry out his life with all his powers. The Democratic Party has one dilemma. At least one member of the coalition that forms the parliamentary majority under its political programme has a collapse of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. That's why, with great skepticism, I see in the future the possibility of this government, its capacity and its ability to work on the realization of this fundamental and, I mean, one of the most important political views. When it comes to economic policy, I think the most important thing is said in the following: "I would like to stress that it is not good that the state has burdened all those who work with high taxes. “ And then, as a solution to this thesis, “the government will reduce the taxes that burden production. ” And it's commendable to know. At least a dozen points, implicitly or completely clearly, give indications that these positions will increase public spending. So, in which positions will increase expenditure from the budget, where positions will spend more taxpayers' money than before, he says, "The budget will plan funds for public investment and fostering the priority sectors of the economy". “ The government’s intention is to pay particular attention to creating better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. To this end, further capitalisation of the Development Fund and its transformation into a modern investment fund which, apart from lending, could invest in capital of small and medium-sized enterprises will be considered. “ Then, “In order to stimulate agricultural production, a real and new system of monetary incentives will be introduced, which will enable long - term planning and provide the necessary safety for peasants. ” And then: "In the shortest possible time period, an analysis will be made of investments in new power generation capacities; the modernisation of refineries, the completion of the construction of gas plants, the modernisation of the oil industry network and the increase of its own production of oil and gas. Social policy must be run by the state, not by companies. Investment in healthcare is one of the basic investments of both the individual and the state." I hope that DSS MPs will vote for ratification of the international treaty, which should give us 200m euros and should be invested in our country's health care system. "The unfavourable material position of the largest number of judicial employees," it said, "has distanced a large number of professional people, and has made young and hardworking lawyers a judicial function insufficiently attractive". And it goes on to say, "The government will make sure that it provides proper education and training for all judicial employees." The next position, which apparently suggests that the future government will spend more than the government has done so far: "in all this, the government will seek to increase the technical equipment of the MUP, especially the criminal police. Special attention will be paid to the material position of all MP officials." The last two points: "We will increase investment in science and pass a law on scientific research"; and at the very end, "We aim to restore culture by adopting a national strategy, and we, as Government, will support the whole process by proposing legislation and increasing the budget for culture." At this point, it is not possible to give a clear assessment of this and quantify how much revenue the budget will be reduced if the proposed tax reduction is achieved. But in the kitchens and in the very break in front of this session, we calculated that around 50 billion dinars must be more budget spending than it has ever been before. It is, of course, the matter of the future Prime Minister and the finance minister and of course, after 100 days we will have the opportunity to all remember this exposure together and make the first estimates of the government's policy. I'd like to point to another very important attitude. It says in the exposé: "We will do everything to correct injustices, such as nationalisation of the property of religious communities. The government will work to correct two major injustices that have been done to a large number of people, many of whom today are in the diaspora, which is the return of seized property and rehabilitation of unjustly convicted." The previous government of the Republic of Serbia has done at least 10 drafts of the property return law. It was truly sincere intent and desire. Every government, including the government that will be formed today or tomorrow, is meeting with one great one, and I'm afraid, insurmountable fact, which is that for a full return of property, which is nationalized by either natural persons, legal persons, religious communities and all other entities, it takes less than 50 billion US dollars. We will, of course, have the opportunity to debate as a parliament here and meet together with that fact. At the very end, the way this government will be formed. The parliamentary majority that will form this government, and above all a party that will not enter this government, will support it with its votes, is the biggest deficit of the future government. That, Mr. Kostunica, which will vote for your government by a party whose president remains Slobodan Milosevic represents and throws into complete forget all those who have been humiliated and offended in years behind us, the relatives of all those who have lost their lives in those 10 years, the humiliation of all those who have lost their homes and about it, Mr. Kostunica, will not be judged by your political opponents; only history and God can judge that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u935	The replica of Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u936	After reading, we also heard a few political assessments. Let's go back to this when you say that the government and the Democratic Party of Serbia will spend more money than the current one has spent and that that money will be found if we plan to cut taxes. The money will be found here; the state of Serbia only loses 100m euros a year from the sugar affair and there is money that Serbia will find to pay for all these payments. The money that ends in the private pockets of those who finance your party will end up in the state register. And from there, we will fund social funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There's the money. We will develop small and medium-sized enterprises of citizens of Serbia, not enterprises of the Democratic Party's finance company. The second thing, financial control over the smuggling of tobacco will also put money into the budget. Only one financial control in this area can increase the budget by 20% and there will be money to fund these payments. As for Milosevic and all of this, remember that the voice chosen by Dragoljub Micunovic's National Assembly, which he guards in the way he guards, is also the voice of Socialist Banet Ivkovic, whose president was also Slobodan Milosevic, but that did not bother you at the time. Miss me to that pragmatism of yours and mentioning the church only when it's in your best interest. You have installed the principle in Serbian politics – who wants to deal with politics has nothing to look for in church, because there is no morals and who wants to deal with morals in politics should go to church. Do not call upon God and the church, for everyone will receive the punishment of God as he has earned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u937	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Lazarevic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u938	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and fellow MPs, since 2000, this is the third government to be formed or to be formed. Whatever, but it's the third, and I'm sure this is the third happiness, or at least I believe it'll be the third happiness, as our people say. Happiness, first of all, for the government, and much greater happiness for the people of this country, who expects to be something better, finally. I think it's high time to draw a line with the past, but don't forget that same past. To draw the line with what some used to do, so that this country was getting back together, so that we could draw a line with what some recently did, so they didn't do well and we could all work together, and it would be better for the citizens of Serbia, because of them there is a parliament, and because of them, for God's sake, there is a government. Serbia today has and will have a government that will have a lot of problems. It's a government that will be brave. The problems are inherited. It wasn't that government that created these problems. I'll just list some: inefficient economy, social product small, external trade deficit large, many, almost a million people unemployed, fictitious, also many, unemployed people. Then, the problem of Kosovo, the problem of crime and corruption unresolved, which the new government will have to resolve, and the problem of the affairs for which we all want to be resolved as soon as possible, sugar and others. Then the absence of justice, to solve that problem, why not punish those who have committed and who commit crimes. Why is it that those who have become financial powers and those who have become rich in this people's misfortune are not punished? That's what the government is going to do, I guess. Then we'll have satisfied and wealthy citizens. How are the citizens of Serbia today? Tired, unhappy, disappointed. They were disappointed by people who promised them easy life, people who promised them a lot of good. G17 plus is a party that is quite responsible and will not sit in opposition and criticise from there, which will not sit and do anything, but wants to accept this responsible task, whether someone likes it or not. G17 plus there are people who want to work, there are people who know how to work and there are people who have the courage to deal with problems. Ladies and gentlemen, not to be all negative for this government, there's something positive. The government should draw positive conclusions from what the previous government did negatively. It's best to learn from mistakes. Everything that this government has done wrong shouldn't be repeated, but there's something good about it. What the previous government has done well should be maintained and continued. It wasn't all that bad. Don't be unobstructive. There are things that are good and let's keep them going. Somewhere she cares and where she cares should be extended. The third thing waiting for this government is positive and it's a strong opposition. The strong opposition that will control the government is something that will make it impossible for the government to sleep, something that will make it impossible for the government to get out, forget voters, something that will make it impossible for the government to forget its promises that we have heard today. That strong opposition, if it's constructive, if it's justified, as it says it will be, is welcome. The opposition will help this parliament control how the government works. The opposition is the voice of the people and through this opposition and position, when the government does not work well, we will say what the citizens think about the reforms that the government is conducting. How'd it go? If you know each other in the morning, it's going very well. This Parliament is working well, gentlemen. In a month's work, he became active. We're listening to what the opposition is saying. The ruling majority is not exclusive. It doesn't matter how, it matters what he says, and for the government, it's not what he says, it's what he does. We listened to what the opposition said, the amendments they had adopted most of them, the promoters adopted, and these are good amendments for Serbia, so why don't we work together. I think that the establishment of institutions that started from parliament, the president of parliament, and then the government tomorrow or when it is voted, to the President of the Republic, is a positive shift for this parliament, which is slowly regaining dignity. For this return of dignity, we are all MPs. What the government is doing and what the government is looking for in the end. You're speculating here today how long it's gonna take, so no one knows. It will last as long as it does well, as long as it is successful, and it will work for this people. He's looking for a chance to work today. Europe has given this opportunity, Europe has clearly said, gentlemen, to you, you have chosen the government and may the government, for the sake of no sanctions, be there, we will support the government based on its results. Well, of course, that's what we're asking Serbia's citizens to do, we're asking the opposition to support this government based solely on the results this government is about to achieve. If there is no result, if the government is not reformable, if the government is not successful, fair, quality, and of course it will be replaced and of course there will be no vote of confidence of the government, primarily from the citizens of Serbia and then from the opposition or position. First of all, we have to give the government a chance. Today we criticize the work of people who have yet to start working. Let's give them a chance all together. It's a hard road. It's not easy. Surely the European Union and the economic reforms that await us are the path that this government should go, the way this country has to go, so we no longer want to be isolated, we no longer want to be a particular island and ourselves constantly moving away from European integration. I want to live in Europe. I want to be an essential part of Europe. I want this country to have a market that's big, I want to travel freely, I want people to invest in this country and I want to live normally. That's what we G17 Plus MPs want, that's what the people of Serbia want. That's what we have to give them, that's what this government has to provide, that's what we have to do together, whether you like it or not. I know one thing. A lot more style can be in this House if we listen to each other, if we want to hear each other, no matter how many different political thoughts we have. Much more at this point, it seems to me that we need to be unique and show that we can and cooperate when we have different opinions, if interest is higher than mutual interest. The state's interest is the highest interest parliament and government have. Finally, to say one thing to all of us here is Serbia in the first place, which the people say, together for Serbia, will be radically better and the future will come right away. So if you know what all this means, it's the messages we sent in the election campaign, all of us together. When they enter into a sentence, they say one thing, let's work in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the interest of the future of our descendants, but in the interest of the present eight and a half million people who expect to be better. They deserve to do so and give this government a chance to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u939	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger, Milisav Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the record, this is the 113st government in the recent history of Serbian statehood, so I'm afraid that number 13 is not a coincidence. We've heard the exposés of the future prime minister. He started it with one question, and the question is, what does Serbia ask of us? I'm afraid we haven't received the answer or that the future prime minister doesn't know what Serbia really expects from its government. If we start from what kind of situation the current state is in -- that it's faced with major economic and therefore growing social problems, that we have a large number of unemployed people, that we have reduced productivity, that employment is constantly dropping, that a large number of young people going abroad, we have a deficit of trade and balance of payments, and the debt is growing, the standard of living is disastrous, almost unbearable -- then we come to the answer that we need a development strategy. We haven't seen from your exposé that you have a vision of our country's development strategy. It is clear that our country's commitment and all political factors, and we, the Serbian radicals, were doing so in the pre-election campaign, to join the European Union. We don't mind, of course, but to join the European Union, we have to have a certain level of economic and technological development. So poor, we don't need the European Union. That is why only by improving the economic position of the state we can plead that in some recent time, and when I say more recently, it is certainly not less than 10 years, we become a member of the European Union. So what would have to be the objectives of social development in order to restore the state, to become, that is, a part of Europe. First of all, these are some general values, which are social justice, social security, solidarity, and then to achieve some economic, political, cultural goals. What economic goals would that be? First of all, economic growth, a rise in living standards, a fair distribution of products, full employment and so on. Political objectives, primarily state sovereignty, the development of democratic institutions, the rule of law, the division of power, the freedom of the media. Cultural goals, above all, maximum possible support for education, scientific and cultural creation, the care of national traditions, the restriction of brain drains with appropriate material and cultural stimuli. We in these conditions have to go towards achieving optimal results, given, of course, all the difficult circumstances. You were afraid to say that we have some external limitations. We shouldn't be afraid of that. If we locate the problem, then we know how to solve it. So there are some external constraints, but no one now expects us to be able to achieve some fascinating results, and optimally possible, surely, we can achieve, if we know what we want. The question arises and who should make that development strategy. Of course, it should be made by the majority and by the organs most choose, and the question with us is, who makes the majority. Whoever makes up the majority, that's what the citizens said in the elections, and that's Serbian radicals. The very fact that Serbian radicals cannot build a development strategy, as well as a state policy, leads us to conclude that this government, if for no other reason, has no perspective. The goal of the development strategy would have to be to ensure, first of all, that people can work and live from their work, and we haven't seen how you will succeed. In any case, in my opinion, who doesn't set his goals, clear goals, he can't reach them at all. When we talk about the history of Serbian statehood, Mr. Kostunica, we have three times in the last 100 years created a new state and changed its name as many times. We are the only country in Europe that is conditioned by the loss of much of its territory to join the European Union. We've got another ballast, and that's the state community's handiwork. For both of us, you carry a part of the guilt and don't forget, you don't enter power for the first time, we also know you as head of a political party that was in power in 2000, and as president of the SRJ, which no longer exists, and I'm afraid you'll also be prime minister of the state who will come out of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because it's obvious that it has no perspective. I just wanted to say something about stick policy and carrots and open lists of requirements that Europe and the world have had towards us since 2000, regardless of what is allegedly political change. The reason for this is the obedience policy that Serbia is leading. You didn't look back at any foreign policy at all, counting on the fact that the Republic government has no jurisdiction in that part, but that's not the case. Montenegro is leading an independent foreign policy, so we should turn to it and figure out where we belong. So, we gave up negotiations and from the oldest state in the Balkans we became a "banana" state, which is practically a constitution, which is, above all, what I mean by the Charter of the State Community, and we got a name from foreign mentors. In order for our country to become a respectable side, whose opinion is being heard in the world, in order to gain equal status with other countries, we must, above all, go in political practice in certain directions. I will tell you in seven points what this should be, and in this way I want to show you that we care about these directions, because it is in the interest of our country and our people and I think at all this debate about your exposés as well as a well-intentioned and timely warning that something is expected of you, and you will, of course, answer if you do not meet the expectations, first of all in some of the next elections. So, quite briefly. First, it should be firmly demanded that we be treated as other Eastern European countries, and this means that this stick and carrot and conditionality policy will be abandoned in the future. You've already shown by forming this and this kind of government that you can't fulfill this. Secondly, that our entry into all European integration is possible only in Serbia-Montenegro's AVNOJ borders, which guarantees us Bedinter's arbitration commission's decision, based on which the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was re-emerged into the United Nations. Third, Serbia's new constitution obliges any official authority to give up Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija under no circumstances. Fourthly, for the sake of joining the EU and the Partnership for Peace, we wait for their call first, so that on the basis of it we can enter into equal talks, not drag them by the sleeve and accept a subordinate negotiating position. Fifth, restore bilateral ties with countries outside the Euro-Atlantic circle, in order to somehow balance our foreign policy position. To encourage the companies of Russia and China to invest and participate in the auctions of our companies in the country, so that not all our capital comes into the hands of the West and thus brings us into one subordinate position. The sixth, to lead a more determined policy when it comes to the ongoing International Court in The Hague under BiH and Croatia's lawsuits against our country and our lawsuit against NATO countries. You never mentioned that in your exposé. Seven, it is not at all a question of whether new trust relations should be built with both the United States and the trans-Atlantic organisations, but what kind of government it should be done with: a vasal or authentic national. In my opinion, the authentic national government doesn't have a government that's made up of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u941	The word has a folk MP, Milisav Petronijevic, and then Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has backed the formation of a minority government headed by the DSS and the SPS parliamentary group will vote to elect the government. The SPS has invested 300,000 votes, regardless of all the differences that exist among the parties, with the goal of stopping Serbia's agony, for institutions to establish themselves, to start working. On the other hand, we had in mind that Serbia was so eager for the political situation to stabilize, to stop the robbery, crime, corruption, that Serbia began to build and develop, and people were working and living on their work, to stop reducing social rights. On the one hand, this was the reason why the SPS provided support to the formation of a minority government, and on the other hand, from the exposés of the prime minister for the government's composition, we made sure that the programme that was offered gives a significant amount of space to achieve the SPS programme. No matter what kind of pair of ears, I will repeat: The SPS is not interested in participation in the government, nor in perrosal solutions, we are interested in the programme and the result of the government's work. I believe that those who are used to speaking the language of political trade and bigotry will not understand that, but they are not even manipulated. In the past three years, the SPS has experienced one terrible torture from the previous regime. They did everything they could to the satur. They didn't even scare her. Even now, we will not hesitate to have a media campaign against the SPS just because it contributes to stabilising political opportunities in Serbia, creating opportunities for Serbia to start working, to live people from their work and to live better. We won't be hesitated by the threats of individual parties that we'll be left without voters. We won't be swayed by the disgust of those who will be in that government, and it cannot be formed without our votes. So we're going to support this minority government. One more thing, the SPS was a responsible party and will be a reliable supporter of the government until as long as the programme is realised as it was brought here. I'll only stick to a few issues that are relevant to the SPS. It is issues listed in the Prime Minister's exposé for the government's composition, which will be resolved by the government, and of which citizens will live better. First, in the exposé, the prime minister briefly referred to the current situation in the economy, I mean even too briefly. It is true, but much more is there, it is true that DOS or the regime did not launch the economy, but brought it into collapse, that it did not create new jobs, but closed hundreds of thousands. If he hadn't raised the standard, he'd have brought on the edge of the Serbian citizens' misery. Citizens see it and they know it, and it can't be hidden by any marketing campaigns, commissioned polls and conducting media. I expect the government of Serbia, as we have just advocated, to have all the affairs lit up until the end. I expect that a real cross-section in Serbia's economy will be announced very quickly. I also suggest that this government, by no means at all, begins to look like the previous one, not to spend its mandate talking about the past, because they were hiding the black present, and the future didn't know they were profiling. So, when this is over, when this data is published, let the government no longer return to the past, let it turn to the future and implement these programme objectives it has set out. There is a basis in the prime minister's exposé for the formation of the new government to reaffirm once again why the SPS supported the minority government. The programme ahead of us makes it clear that the government's main intention is to return Serbia to work, start business, increase production, ensure employment and improve people's lives. That's why we support the minority government. Secondly, when it comes to privatisation, the exposé shows the government's intention to deal with the problem and to review all the privatisations that are not in accordance with the law or are wrongly done. Serbia has the right to know who everything is and under what conditions it has bought the best businesses in Serbia. Serbia has the right to know what privatisations have been made, and they are not based on the law. Serbia has the right to know how contracts are carried out during privatisation, these new owners, what about production, what about commitment to workers and new investment. We expect the government to implement such a privatisation, resulting in an increase in production, not a reduction; revitalisation, not a decline; that the money remain a company, that the company develops, that new jobs are created. The third question - in the area of social policy exposure, we want to support the government's intention to launch a social contract between representative trade unions and employers' and state associations. And not only that, we expect this government to restore the dignity of labour and workers, the one the previous minister of the previous government destroyed. The previous Minister of Labour and Employment was known for pushing for a catastrophic Labour Law, regardless of what was done remotely, which in fact destroyed the dignity of workers and workers, and consequently had a huge number of unemployed, several hundred thousand. We expect the new government to restore the strength of collective agreements to both workers and trade unions. Finally, in the previous three years of the DOS regime, there has been a threat to a large number of social rights in Serbia. Since the child was born, his rights have been reduced; when the school course, enormous scholarships have been introduced; when the staff is to be employed, to work, there is no place to work, and there are hundreds of thousands of them, they are fired; when they come to the period when the pension is due to be used, and there are rights reduced until the end. We expect the government to prevent further erosion of these rights. In the end, I want to support the government's intentions to face the problem of legalising construction facilities. As I come from Belgrade, the problem is very pronounced. The previous government saw legalisation of construction facilities as a chance to rob the people, start with one-off registration fees, through the purchase of a mountain of paper, at huge prices, to finally get an answer that could not be legalized. We support and ask the government to review the process, to encourage legalisation by stimulating measures, to make it cheap and to be socially just. I want this government to succeed. When I say it succeeds, I mean the realisation of the programme and the solving of the problems that Serbian citizens are facing, and by making citizens feel it, and not as the previous government, marketing performances to convince citizens that they live well, except they don't know it either. So, to succeed in realising this program and solving these problems. When I think it works, I don't think it compares to the previous government, because it's the easiest. Each one is better than the other one. Therefore, in anticipation of the government's success in the implementation of the SPS programme, it has invested 300,000 votes, putting the general over party interest, confident it will be increased multiplely in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u943	The word has a folk MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u944	Mr. President, the honourable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, I think that the exposés of the mandate, as well as the ongoing debate, have shown a civilized, strategic and fundamental difference in the perception of the power between the DS and the capital government of the legalist-monarchist-socialist coalition. The Ministry Act itself, and the composition of the government of this unprincipled coalition, suggest that it is about understanding a policy in which the government is seen as a capital division of prey, not as a work for the common good. After the exposé, and I'd like to make a mistake, I'm sure only the formation of this government in this way will be its greatest result in the future. If I were a newspaper reporter after the exposé, I'd have a problem with putting the title in the paper, and it would probably be the title "With a little bit more effort, we'll get a lot better results." We've heard a little bit of energy and competence, but a lot of cheap pulsism and demagogy, which have cost this country dearly in the past. We've also heard indications of a harsh dictionary towards the international community, a harsh dictionary to which we, as a people and as a state, have always cut ourselves. As for the strategic concept towards the speed of change, it seems to me that the basic idea of being late is because we've been going too fast for the past three years, so we need to slow down, to get there faster. The exposé also mentions some basic state issues, primarily Kosovo and Metohija. It's a very serious state issue. There we have a conflict of ethnic and historical rights. Kosovo is today a Serbian cradle rocking Albanian children. We're looking at all the citizens as much as the citizens of our country and we're looking for a solution, but I see you've tried to find a solution with those who arrested Titus's pioneer and his youth, Vlassi, and that's why we got an unreachable Thaci. I remembered Dusan Radovic, after you decided to solve the problem with those who made him. Some would like to solve the problem themselves, the ones who made it. Maybe that's the right thing to do, but I'm sure it's not the smartest thing. As for the relations between Serbia-Montenegro and The Hague tribunal, I think the SRJ president has insisted that he participates in resolving these two problems and we see where we are today as regards their resolution. The Constitution was also mentioned. No one disputes the need for a legal and institutional framework for the functioning of the Serbian state. But, gentlemen, it's not the Ustadeus Edge Machine, it comes down from the sky, and suddenly all the problems are solved, and we have salaries for educational and health workers, we have pension payments, companies operate, unemployed are employed. There's also something called life. European integration is also mentioned. I agree with those who want to go to Europe with a preserved identity, culture, tradition, but I am against the new bloom of mythology, a mythanium in political performances, I remind you of the saying of Andrea Malro, who said he would never understand civilizations that sacrifice living people by myths. Well, I guess the other way around is to sacrifice myths to living people. The key issue in the exhibition is too little said, and this is the issue of economics, resolving the issues of standards and daily people's problems. It is therefore incomprehensible to mention reforms and changes that, in order to succeed, must be a public topic. It takes that spirit of urgency, but it also takes the truth as the strongest weapon. It is not said that we have before us the changes that need to continue to rock the people of lethargy and which are unpopular, but are certainly necessary. He hasn't said anything about the results in three years. Gentlemen, the generations to come will not remember us and judge by what anyone has said to whom, but by who has done for the people and the state. The previous three years have stopped the collapse and life in Serbia has been restored, the stability and predictability of the system has been established, a decades-long economic solar system has been stopped. We have a small inflation, a stable currency, better economic conditions, not the best, but better economic conditions, we have settled public finances, which are the basic preconditions of the quality of one government. It's the easiest thing to give unearthed and score points that way. The main ideas in Serbia today are who wants to work and who wants to be wise. One more thing, so I don't take up time for my colleagues to have a lot to say on this proposal today, this is about one request for a Centauri transition, as he called Lasslo Vega, to change half the stuff, and half the old stuff. That's the third time that creates confusion and stagnation. We see clearly in the exposé an attempt to combine a folk-populist element with some elements of the Western efficient economy. We want the standard of the West, we want the policy of the East. We demand a modern civil state, but under the imperative of national homogenisation. It is, gentlemen, a simulation of change in essence and redesigning something that cannot be redesigned. It is the legislation of Milosevic without Milosevic, but with the support of his Socialists. Let me express my doubts about leaders, or politicians who court the people a lot, and don't go in front of them. Some politicians suddenly decided to be both power and conscience, and do not acknowledge any critical point beyond their own sight. Change, gentlemen, can't be dosed on a spoon. Someone has to take political risks, but also take political responsibility. There's no going back to direct history, but they're in front of us twice. One of these roads is the accelerated accession to Europe, the adoption of European standards, the revitalisation of best traditions. The second is this hybrid, Centauri road I was talking about. This first time requires more effort and effort, but it's more perspective. The second, perhaps, has more support in the people and that's legitimate. But going twice towards two different goals at the same time is simply not possible. Because probably staying on this first time means revitalising the best tradition and European integration was no place for the Democratic Party in a majority government, which would have a clear programme and tasks. And two words only about the ministries. The Diaspora Ministry was organized for the first time. I think we got off on the wrong foot. We first decided to give the voice to the diaspora. I'm asking you, who's the good for? Is it for those citizens who can vote or possibly for whoever expects it to be his voice tank in the coming period? Will, for example, the Ministry of Diaspora be the ministry of political propaganda ahead of the upcoming elections. Because, believe me, this ministry may have been set up, but also to deal with some issues, such as – the representatives of the diaspora asked to form a plan to invest the capital of our people abroad and develop our economy, to address the issue of citizenship as soon as possible, to find a solution to regulate the military deadline of young people in the diaspora; to urgently take measures to improve the supplementary teaching for our children abroad, which are all covered by 0.3%. But if there were room for the Socialists in this government, they would certainly have belonged to this diaspora ministry. Well, isn't there a more worthy political party that we've expanded so much diaspora over the past ten years than the Socialists who support you today? There's no mention of information in the exposé. I can find an excuse for that, because the protection mark of the party, represented by the prime minister, is ignorance. Environmental protection; I have great respect for the man who will lead the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection and I hope that despite the ministry being abolished, he will realize how limiting the survival and development of our economy is to solve environmental problems in this country. As for the Ministry of Faith, according to what I am familiar with from all religious communities, the request was unique that the existing Minister Milovanovic remain a minister of religion. About why it is not appreciated, he says all that you did today and suggested Mr. Radulovic. As far as privatisation is concerned, so as not to take any more time, it was mentioned in your privatisation review campaign. The only revision of privatisation is that you downloaded "privatisation" from the name of the Ministry of Business and Privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u945	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u946	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the previous speaker seems to have spoken in a critical tone about this alleged coalition that will make the government, mentioning that it will also be a Socialist government. I want to fix it a little bit. Namely, not all the Socialists and Social Democrats who entered this assembly have entered this government. Comrades and comrades from the Democratic Party have not entered the government. I'm sorry about that, because we're very related political parties. They are in the Socialist International, and I suggest, as the Seselj Party wears badges, that they put red roses, because it is a symbol of the Socialist International, because they should begin their congress with an international one anyway. So much for socialists and friends and fellow Democrats. Please make a deal. It bothers one of them that we are allegedly giving up Milosevic, and the others are bothered that we do not allegedly give up Milosevic. I think it's something else. You have a problem with the Socialist Party of Serbia. We can't help you with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u947	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milosevic Albianic, and let MP Igor Mirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u948	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kostunica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as one Serbian intellectual said, I will quote his words, since the opportunity is: "In a situation like this, where governments have changed, the general impression is that the old has worn out and something new is being made." Speaking through the G17 Plus program, these are new people for a new era. G17 plus was established to help Serbian citizens. We've grown into a political party. We came to parliament, but our goal hasn't changed. Today we heard from Mr. Kostunica that even leading G17 Plus men are being held as candidates for certain ministries. I must say that our leaders indeed and in previous negotiations on the composition of the new government had a very constructive approach, patience in the negotiations, because Serbia is really necessary to form a new government and it is finally starting to work in the interests of all Serbian citizens. Our candidates for the composition of the future government are Mr. Labus, who has always advocated restoring the dignity of institutions. He has been influencing Serbia's return to international financial flows, affecting Serbia's opening up to the world and the world towards us. During negotiations with the international community, he voiced hope that Serbia would take a place in a world it rightly belongs to. Remember the initiative that he launched along with the other G17+ leaders and discussed with other political parties in order to reach a national consensus on basic issues in this country and bring a new constitution. Is it necessary to highlight the determination and courage of Mladjan Dinkic? When it was necessary to restore the reputation of an important institution in the country, which is the National Bank of Serbia, it did not save itself, and every citizen in this country knows what a solid dinar is worth. In his moments of revealing bad things in the work of the previous government, he had no doubt that he was telling the citizens the truth. Of course, I remind you of our candidate for Minister of Health, which is Tomica Milosavljevic, calmly and committed to the medical profession, who has prepared projects for the Ministry of Health, and they are waiting to see the light of day in this Parliament as well. The candidate for the Minister of Agriculture is Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic and her organisational skills should translate into reality the programme that is being released here. So, to increase the agrarian budget, to build a loan insurance fund in agriculture, because you yourself know what kind of mechanism our farmers have, and that needs to be restored. These G17 plus people make a team, but that's not enough. It is necessary that all in the future Serbian government work as one team, each of which will be responsible for the portfolio it belongs to. We wonder what the citizens of Serbia say these days? Well, they ask if the government was formed, when will the government, have they agreed? So the citizens ask in Belgrade, so they ask in the Great Field, in Bogdanica, Požega, so they ask in the Smederjevska Palanca, wherever I've been these days. They're aware of this situation and they're waiting for when the state will finally begin to function. We have heard the exposés of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and all citizens know and want the budget to be developed, to start the economy and production, because everyone expects it, that taxes are reduced, that the state administration is effective, that they feel safe in this country, that they feel safe for their children who go to school, that they have jobs, safety that those who work and earn, safety for the people who grow cows so that they can sell milk, cheese and cream, the safety that we know the prices of products such as meat, vegetables, fruit and brandy. Furthermore, security for the money they keep, citizens want security for the loans they return and that injustice is removed from our daily lives, that the punishments of those who have committed crimes during the previous period, but that the punishment of those who have also committed theft. I wonder if there's a country where the music of an anthem is whistled by citizens, is there a state that doesn't have its symbols? Every citizen in this country has a name, has a name that symbolizes the roots of his family, so I guess it's time for the symbols of this country to be in a visible place. Citizens want a new constitution and at the same time to solve their most basic life problems. I call on MPs to vote in favour of the exposés, which is therefore, to vote in favour of the programme and composition of the future government, to finally begin to work. Finally, I would like to extend an invitation to Mr Kostunica, Mr Labus, to all future ministers, and as far as all of us are concerned, to return Serbia to its roots, and its roots have always been in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u949	The word is by MP Igor Mirovic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u950	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after such a significant speech, one of the most significant recent years in this assembly, it's hard to say anything new. However, I will try to assess in a few sentences the exposés of the Serbian government's prime minister. The mandate asks a question, but it doesn't find the answer in the exposé. He says - what does Serbia ask of us? His exposé is not a government program, I expected it. Of course, we can expect that there will be no vigorous work left to solve the problems that citizens face in everyday life. Exposures are a mere list of problems, and the well-designed programme that awaits the whole of Serbia's exposures does not foresee. Already in the first part, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the prime minister for the new government's composition, envisions a consistent implementation of Resolution 1244. In the interests of our country, the most significant part of the resolution that speaks of the return of our security forces in Kosovo and Metohija, of course, without war, without conflict, with the consent of those forces currently in Kosovo and Metohija, but even so, conditioned and limited to Resolution 1244, did not find any place in the exhibition of mandaters for the composition of the new government. Only the return of our security forces can guarantee the naked lives of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Instead of talking about the guarantee that the Serbian government can and must provide to our citizens who are physically at risk, a much lighter formulation is used, the prime minister is talking about discrimination against Serbs. That's a big difference. I expected that the exposures would contain a part that would talk about active policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, which implies a broad political and diplomatic action, both in the country and abroad, in order to return our citizens to Kosovo and Metohija, in order to increase the security of our citizens, and only then create conditions for the Kosovo and Metohija status negotiations. This status can and must only be within the state of Serbia, no independence, none of these other elements that the mandater has underlined and which already, without the general attitude of the National Assembly, define our negotiating position. That's very bad. Secondly, there is not a single word in the exposé of growing political tensions in Vojvodina. In Vojvodina, an attempt to destabilise her is under way. The people of Vojvodina are very upset by the latest attempts of the Separatist summit in the Vojvodina Assembly to bring a new flag of Vojvodina, which deeply hurt the honour and feelings of Serbs in Vojvodina, as well as all the citizens of Vojvodina whose country is at heart, try to destabilize it completely, to create very strong political tensions, and there is hardly a word about it in the exposé. Vojvodina and a dying robber of the outgoing province's authorities must be the focus of Serbia's new government. The government must create, and that is also not said, the necessary conditions for extraordinary local, province and presidential elections as soon as possible. Citizens, as well as most MPs, expect the prime minister to announce the date when extraordinary local, province and presidential elections will be held. The government is one technical participant of the process, but very important, because it must create preconditions for organising fair and fair political matches, for organising elections. Only Serbia, in which these new authorities will be elected and established at all levels in accordance with the will of the citizens, can begin building a rule of law on which the prime minister speaks so much in his exposé. Without new authorities, without democratic elections, the process cannot be achieved. Only one sentence or half sentence speaks of one of the biggest problems in Serbia, the problem of unemployment. The Mandator says, and that's the only thing he says about it: "I have seen that today about 950,000 people are out of work." Nothing more. We don't have a program to stop the growth of the unemployed. If the new government succeeds in stopping the growth of the number of unemployed, then it will be her great success, but I doubt it, because from the very exposé, it is a question of interest on the sidelines of this government. That's a fact. The candidate for Prime Minister is talking about tax policy. He says the government will reduce taxes burdening production, customs policy and extra-tariff measures will make it more efficient, but does not say what the government's position on value added tax, tax administration, tax procedure. These days, one of the most important issues is the introduction of fiscal registers in our country. There's not a word about it. The mandate announces a tax reduction by compensating it for a higher tax on the market and excise duty, especially on luxury products and products harmful to health. In other words, the prime minister announces fuel, electricity and cigarettes. That's clear. I'm asking him to come forward with this. When it comes to major economic systems and their restructuring, the candidate for Prime Minister does not explain how this restructuring will be done. How will the consolidation of major systems of Serbia's oil industry, electricity, Telekom and others be carried out? Whether according to this model, which is already circulating among board members and adopted by the outgoing government, which practically enables the breaking of large systems, the creation of small continents, and even something around it has its words in the programme, or will adopt a new model that will in a clear and comprehensive way protect state interests in large public systems. There's no estimate of the privatisation rate so far. Whether privatization in one good part was a robbery, as I think it was, or not, as the prime minister seems to think. Agrarian policy is being discussed and it is said: "We plan to carry out adequate customs and extra-carinal protection of domestic agriculture in order to prevent unconsolidated imports of basic agricultural products into the Serbian market." This is then not an enhanced pro-European policy, because Europe imposes low customs duties and almost no extra-carinal protection, which means that the mandater's wishes and what the G17 plus will do in the government will be very soon brought into collage. When it comes to the reconstruction of the health system, the prime minister has not reached the core. He's not talking about the health insurance system. It does not plead for a programme that will allow such health insurance in which each individual will at any time know how much funds he has in his health insurance account, how much of his funds are allocated to solidarity health care and how much money is saved in order to invest in the health care system. There's not a word about it. In the end, I think it's a very general program of the new government, a government that will make up a very heterogeneous coalition. There will be very diverse political parties in the government. He'll have weak support in parliament. This all together does not guarantee any success and I believe that the SRS will be a responsible and strong opposition, which will very clearly strongly criticise all of the wrong moves of the government, a new government that, according to the programme presented by the prime minister, will not work in the interest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u951	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, and then by MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u952	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could discuss Mr. Vojislav Kostunica's exposé to speak expertly, professionally and in any way you want, but it seems to me that this is still an opportunity to hear an opinion in the National Assembly that looks more like a people's reflection on a new government. There are several reasons why I will vote for this minority government as an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia. Certainly, the most important reason is that the "best" government in Serbia's history leaves power, or goes into history. The second reason is that Mr. Kostunica did not mention or say in his exposé, nor did he claim that this government would be reformable, because of these reforms that we have had in the past three years, we all have our ears shaved and all of Serbia scratched where it does not itch. Then, I expect that this will be an ordinary, normal government, which will represent the interests of the citizens of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it will be one responsible government that will correspond to this National Assembly, where it will not be the other way around, as it has been in the past three years, that this assembly will actually be subordinated to that government, or to the executive government. I will be perfectly pleased that this future minority government will achieve half the results compared to the one that is best in history and that will definitely go back in history. For example, I will be too pleased that the number of unemployed, which is now a million, is halved and amounts to only 500,000 workers in three years. I will also be pleased that the incredible 11.5 billion foreign trade deficits are halved and in three years only $5.5 billion. I will also be pleased if the privatisation is not transparent in the future, and what it will say is transparent, because privatisation has been too transparent. It's enough to keep it legal and fair in the future. I will also be pleased that this future government, instead of 1,200 companies in the next three years, sells only 600 companies, and unlike the one that sold 1,200 of the best, the government should sell 600 companies and the worst. It will be the greatest contribution to this assembly and to this majority who will vote in favour of this government. What are they going to do with these money future government? Put them in the budget, even if it's worth investing in the creation of new productions, unlike the government that spent the funds in the budget on office materials, official travel, telephone costs and other types of public spending. I will also be pleased that half the results of this government are achieved, let's say, in the field of education, so that the scholarships of students in our colleges are halved, so instead of a few thousand euros, we who have children in colleges, and to enable our children who have brains and have previous results from primary and high school to study, not just those whose parents are rich. I will be pleased, further, that in future time the budget deficit will be halved and that instead of 45 billion dinars, as is the case today, it is only 20 billion. Also, if Serbian citizens and the whole of Serbia start to live better, I will consider it collateral damage and suggest that my fellow Socialists once again support the same government of Vojislav Kostunica. Now let's get things serious. There are almost no sentences from an exposé with which a common and normal man -- like you, most of the MPs in the National Assembly -- would disagree. Also, I believe this government has the capacity to carry out the tasks of Mr Kostunica's exposé. In this regard, it is particularly important that all those who make the government keep their word, that the G17 maintains the word that Serbia is first in this case, that this is reflected in the full budget and the fuller the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To keep his promise and to build a modern and economically prosperous state of Serbia through the construction of institutions. That Mr. Vela Ilic, as future minister of capital investment, is indeed launching public works, really activates concessions of activities and indeed provides adequate capital to finance these works, to launch production and to employ as many workers as possible. I am convinced that this government will know to come out of the difficulties that the country of Serbia is in. As long as I believe it, I will vote in favour of the proposals that the government will bring here, that is, in the National Assembly. It will not prevent me from seeing and critically considering what may not be in line with the current economic policy, which may not be in line with the real and objective interests of all citizens in Serbia and which is not in line with the needs of the economy. I will especially support those activities that will address the need to restructure large enterprises, because there are no small ones without large ones. Of course, the opposite applies, but it is not inevitable, and that is well said in the exposé, that a large number of workers remain unemployed in the restructuring of enterprises must be made available. In order for these companies to be privatised, in order to be sold, they have to be overly qualified, they have to run at least some volume of production and, as my Loznicans would say, the car that's on the benches to be put on wheels and in motion to be evicted to the market. Finally, this government, as far as I'm concerned, can achieve zero results in terms of the number of workers who will lose their jobs in the future, which will mean that none of these Serbia has lost their jobs and that we have created many jobs. This does not mean that everyone kept their jobs, but that they were able to find another job because another activity was launched. The zeroth score can also be in the number of people this government will deliver so-called. The Hague tribunal. There is nothing more logical than what has been said that the state of Serbia and the future government have an obligation to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, but in a way that will ensure, at the very least, the equality of all of our citizens in The Hague tribunal, and that equality with the UN prosecutor, Mrs Karl del Ponte. If a document by our state administration and the National Co-operation Committee with The Hague is available to Mrs. Krali del Ponte, then it must inevitably be available to Slobodan Milosevic, and Vojislav Seselj, and Sainovic, and Ojdanić and all those who are there in The Hague, and have not been able to take any previous instructions on these documents, get acquainted with their content and use them. In defence of not only its own interests, but primarily the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. The consequences of the trial in The Hague are not only political, not only historic, but possibly economic. Let us not forget about the BiH lawsuit, let us not forget about the case of Croatia, and let us not forget the possible consequences of the judgments that our citizens would be charged with, and thus Serbia as a state of war damage in BiH and Croatia. It would take generations to pay, and that would also be proof that this state is irresponsible and does not care enough about its national interests. Therefore, I believe this government will be stable, I believe it will be successful. If she doesn't, I'll be the first to criticize her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u953	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic, and after that, the MP of the people, Snježana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u954	Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President, respected candidates for the Prime Minister, we are today ahead of a very important task, because it is necessary for Serbia to round up its institutions, it is necessary to get its government, because after the election it is clear that the current government no longer has political capacity to decide, that this political capacity has been less and less since the elections and that it has not been able to perform the basic functions that belong to it under the Constitution and the law. That is why it is necessary for MPs to declare themselves and give the possibility for another government, in line with the political relationship of the forces in this parliament, and also in accordance with the citizens' election will, to carry out certain tasks of vital importance for Serbian citizens in Serbia. In that sense, I wish the future government all the success, and I expect that she will make every effort to achieve what she has promised through this exposé. However, I do not want to be insolent, but in some ways, I am disquieted by the composition of this government, and I believe that the political organisations that make up this coalition that supports the government do not guarantee that this government will succeed. First of all, the very composition of the government and the support provided by the mandater by the political forces, which have otherwise been defeated twice in the general parliamentary elections, does not guarantee that this government will be stable and that all the legal projects offered in this Parliament will be the result of a compromise, but of an explicit merger of the incompatible, depicted in the programmes of different political groups that support this brand. The very exposé itself -- which I think is very general, which is at the level of principle, which does not provide any guarantees and mechanisms that what is written and realized here -- is exactly the expression of this political incompatibility of political programs of parties that support this government. It is precisely the desire to compromise, through which most of this government would be provided in parliament, and it has given one such flat-rate and general exposé, from which it will not be seen, nor is it now seen what is the political course of this future government, which will be a time-consuming time for parliament to assess the work of individual ministries, which are guarantees that all this will be implemented. And this is all about one very slow movement of the government and its factors, which says the very fact that this government first came to check confidence in this parliament only two months after the elections were held. But now I'm going to be a little more specific about the exposé itself and what the Prime Minister is offering us for the future government. First of all, this is about the full continuation of the election campaign, although there is a difference between what was promised during the election campaign and what was offered in the exhibition. It is trying in one general way, with regard to the most significant state and national issues, to distract attention from the essence, precisely because of the fact that this government is also supported by those who have an entirely opposite political programme of what is the electoral will of citizens and the general course of our society. When we talk about the Constitution as one of the priorities of the future government, I would like to hear when the government will initiate the constitutional process, as one of the basic promises of Mr Kostunica and his party were elections and immediately after the election of the constitution. I would also remind myself that the DSS has just left the Constitutional Commission's work and thus, by preventing the adoption of the constitution, has politicised the situation in Serbia, with the aim of making early parliamentary elections. All these things that we find in the candidates' exposés for the Prime Minister were also proposals for a new constitution, in which the adoption of a very large obstruction was made precisely by a party headed by the prime minister of this government. One of the important issues raised by the government's mandate is strengthening the state union, is respect for the Constitutional Charter established by the state union. However, I would remind the citizens of Serbia and all of you parliamentarians, that it was the DSS that did not vote in favour of the Constitutional Charter Law and thus prevented the establishment of a state union, that is, unfoundedly stalled by resolving relations between Serbia and Montenegro. In particular, there is a great deal of weight that the coalition will also be made by parties seeking to disband or abolish the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, the programme offered to us by the prime minister for the new government is at the same time a negation of political pledges by the G17 Plus party, which is a factor and which forms this future government. Therefore, the unique denominator is to be found to explain the position of one party in relation to its prime minister, the future government. I wonder how the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will strengthen, how the action plan will be established to ensure the right to equal flow of people, goods and capital in the markets of both Member States. First of all, those who have criticised the Action Plan most, and there is a mandate for the future government and representatives of the G17 Plus party, now need the accony plan to bring it to an end and should represent a negotiating team with ruling parties in Montenegro. The fact itself does not give way to the confidence that this process will end the way it is exposed and defined. What is underlined in the exposé is the creation of preconditions for the functioning of the market, for the rule of law, for the guarantee of property, for the guarantee of investment, where all participants in the economic race would be equal before the law and the constitution and where their position in the game would be ensured through the rule of law. In addition to everything else, and all other circumstances that need to be facilitated and stimulated by the economy in Serbia, it is also said that some new customs rates, a new way of collecting taxes, an increase in the rate of sales, products and services, will certainly have the effect that the transport of products and services will be reduced, that cash flows will slow down, and that importers will also be on the blacklist of the future government, as a target for tax collection. Instead of going into fiscal policy to expand the tax base, i.e. the basics and the number of people from which the tax will be charged, we will go in such a way as to choke those who are worthy, high quality and that they bear the burden of reform and restructuring of the economy, which is spoken of by the prime minister in his exposé. I would remind myself that it is precisely a customs incentive or the introduction of additional customs duties on certain products, in order to protect domestic producers, something that the EU and the European market do not accept. That is contrary to the standards set by the EU before Serbia, to provide preconditions for Serbia's EU accession. I would like to remind all of you Serbian MPs and citizens that the creator of the new customs regulations at the federal level was Mr Labus, who will be the vice-president of the Republic government, so I am now asking whether he has changed his political course, whether he has changed economic doctrine and what will be changed in customs regulations, which were almost entirely taken over from the federal level. However, it will not be possible to change customs regulations unilaterally and unilaterally, because we are in a state union where the single customs market works, and the single customs system and the customs market are a prerequisite for Serbia-Montenegro's accession to the EU. So it is very controversial proposals that do not guarantee that what is proposed and promised will indeed be accomplished. Prime Minister for the future government, Mr. Kostunica has proposed a reform of institutions. However, it is obvious from this exposé that the institution's reform comes down to a personal change in the institution, as it advocates reviewing the elections in the judiciary, reviewing the election of top judicial officials, which is the interference of the executive authority in judicial power. All that they resented when criticising the functioning of the judicial system and the judiciary is now trying through the exposures to impose as a future programme of the Republic government, which means that we will face many cleanups in these institutions. This exposé, which was offered only after the mandate of the future government was presented and with which MPs met immediately before the opening of the debate, contains many of the exits that are completely flat-rate, with the sound of calling for national interests, in order to give weight to this text itself. This is about major or priority social deltifications. I would ask the prime minister to explain here what priority social activities are, what are the main branches of the Serbian economy? I'd like to hear who's in charge and who's in the back and what he meant. It is also said in the exposé that a thorough reform of the health system will be carried out. It is said that this government has left a poor or catastrophic state in terms of providing health services, but I would like to remind all of you, especially Serbian citizens, that the health ministers have just been members of the DSS, Mr Obren Joksimovic, but also the G17 Plus party, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic. The question arises as to what kind of projects their projects are in the area of restructuring of health organisations and in the area of health care that they did not offer to previous governments. I really don't get it. Whether they were hiding these projects and programmes or it was about throwing dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens, that the same ones who failed in the previous period to do anything that would move the state of health should now be reformers of this health system. Since that's enough, I'm going to end my exposure. I want to say that we see a lot of hope in this exposé, because the prime minister hopes and says he will try, and those who support them as a minority government say they expect them to do their best. There's a lot of general places here, there's nothing concrete, we don't see the mechanisms on which we can verify that what they're promising is real and can be implemented. You can't see a deadline in which you'll get what the citizens are promising. Soon we will see the results of this future government. The composition and political support provided by the SPS, as credit and support for what has been annulled as a result of October 5th, will not last long. I don't see one stable situation in Serbia, and I don't expect any improvement from this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u955	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and then a National MP, Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u956	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today, at the very beginning of our work, we have faced an important issue: whether we will continue to debate, debate for and against the government, or we will form a government and give it a mandate to resolve open issues of Serbian citizens. G17 plus is always for a good and reasoned debate, because it respects the opinions of its political opponents and because we ourselves have very good arguments. In the case of the government, our arguments are people who will take over certain ministries and who, be assured, have very clear, precise, concrete and, above all, feasible programmes and solutions to issues raised before these ministries. But today, G17 plus is determined to support this second option, which is a quick and efficient work of parliament, which will result in the formation of a government that will start to work and solve problems. Why do we think it's important? Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Leskovac County, south of Serbia. The South of Serbia can be known for many things, but in the last 15 years southern Serbia has been known, unfortunately, for its deep and extreme poverty, which only illustrates the poverty of all Serbian and Serbian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in southern Serbia, the unemployment rate has reached 40%. Almost every other citizen is unemployed. It's the reality their families face every day. Those who are employed, 24% of them are only fictitiously employed, as they are employed in the textile industry, which has been completely collapsed in southern Serbia. All the towns of southern Serbia are dying because of this problem: Grubs, Lebaneses, Wolfs and many other locals. In nine out of 13 municipalities of southern Serbia, employees in the economy earn income below the poverty line, which means they earn less than 5,500 dinars a month. Lebane, a town in southern Serbia, is known for a black record, which is the fact that last year's employees in the municipality achieved income of 1,500 dinars per month. Rural poverty in southern Serbia is also very deep. The rural population is poor and lives below the poverty line, up to 42%, and of which 22.7% of citizens in southern Serbia, living in villages, live below the line of extreme poverty. Finally, one of the saddest figures, ladies and gentlemen, in Southeast Serbia 16.8% of children live below the poverty line, which means that each sixth child's parents are not in a position to provide their child with basic living conditions. I won't go too far if I say these kids are hungry. In light of this data, ladies and gentlemen, a reasonable question arises: do we today have the right to discuss whether or not a government should be formed, we have moral rights, can we clean consciences and look Serbia in the eye to ask her to wait a few more months to take her to new elections and start new political campaigns? That's the basic question today. G17 plus has a categorical answer to this question. Clearly, we don't have those rights. Of course, we are aware that this government is not perfect and that it will not be perfect. First of all, there is nothing the previous government had, which is undivided and advanced, on religion, given the trust of citizens, the public, political analysts, the international community. But this government has something else, it has the determination to trust it because of its work and results. You will agree that this should be respected and that the least we can do is give her a chance to work. That's why G17 plus is in this government, because he will get a chance to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens. That's why MPs G17 plus will give this government confidence, who is ready to take responsibility at this difficult moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u957	The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and after that, the Prime Minister's candidate, Mr. Kostunica, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the lady who spoke before me, Mrs Plassic, used sophisms and talked about morality and asked whether it was necessary or not to form a government. None of the MPs put it as a dilemma. We need to form a government. The question we're asking is whether we should form a government like this. If we're talking about morality, if the citizens voted for the SRS, then we need to form such a government. Since Mrs Plassic had just said that she respects the opinions of political opponents, since she was from Leskovec, where I came from, because they always lost the elections in Leskovac, she said through all the media that voters who voted for the SRS were politically illiterate and gave just such qualifications, so it is better not to talk about morality, because it is moral, she would not ask such a question as she asked earlier. The government proposed by the prime minister depends on the time of simulation and unity of today's political opponents, and now reportedly democratic coalition forces. Since they've talked a lot about the program right now, I'm going to stick around for a little bit on human resources. Mr. Miroljub Labus, who has just been proposed to be Deputy Prime Minister, apparently is not an ego, but is probably present and superego, because he insisted that he be the only vice president of the government to distinguish himself from others. He also asks a moral question and realises that the previous government has questioned our country's credibility in international financial circles. Is he the factor and the factor that worked, which questioned our country's credibility in international financial circles, and no one but him? What is the state of Serbia's public finances, such will be budgetary policy in the perspective. The 2004 budget has not yet been adopted. The World Bank and foreign donors are demanding the urgent adoption of ten laws in a short period of time, primarily the law on foreign trade, mortgage law and anti-monopolis law. The Serbian Radical Party today proposed a dozen laws that we promised Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign, as well as most of the parties that make up the parliamentary majority, which voted not to put these proposals on the agenda today. In addition to Mr. Labus and Mr. Velja Ilic, he had the ambition to be vice-president of the government, but apparently there was a Solomonian solution to obtain the Ministry of Capital Investments and a number of resistors, traffic and telecommunications portfolios, construction and urbanism, that he too was different from others, since his "It's OK with Serbia" password and ambitions to be president of Serbia obviously became only a dream. Mr. Marsican, who was prime minister in the shadows, apparently realized that he would remain in the shadows and be satisfied only to be minister. The question arises whether ministers have the latest knowledge from the areas they deal with? Tomisa Milosavljevic is certainly a person who has knowledge, certainly a man who is competent, from the profession from which I come. But is it moral for him to talk about a health system reform strategy with an action plan, and he's already been minister for two years. Where are the system laws in health care so far, the laws he announced when he was given the opportunity to run that ministry, the drug law, the law on the formation of medical chambers, the health care law, the health insurance law? When does the health care situation begin? Indeed, the dilemma is opening: are we waiting for the restructuring of the Health Protection Fund, which will be obtained by Mr. Obren Joksimovic, who was already Minister of Health. Although we do not have the right to criticise people who are yet to be appointed ministers, as far as the health minister is concerned, Obren Joksimovic and Tomica Milosavljevic have had the opportunity to show what they know. There's a lot of venison, first of all, at the Nis Clinical Center, a great abuse in the House of Health of Nis and Major. Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic received all these remarks and arguments in writing. He's never reacted to them, and we really can't believe he'll react in the future. I'll only read you one letter from the strong. It is my duty to inform you that the workers of the Health Protection Institute of Leskovac have repeatedly addressed the competent state authorities for the illegal work and behaviour of the director of the institution. However, in addition to the measures taken by individual institutions, to date the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia has not appeared, although it has been repeatedly notified of the situation in this institution. Against the director of the Institute for Health Protection in Leskovac, Dr Miroslava Dimitrijevic, following numerous written and oral applications by workers of this institution to the Labour Inspectorate, the Health and Finance Police of the MUP Leskovac, the Department of Economic Crime, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the head of the Jablanic District, then investigative proceedings and actions, has been brought up several indictments and charges of criminal acts of abuse of official office under the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. Closer explanation and notification, if you wish, can be obtained in the Municipality Court of Leskovac, the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, in those inspections, in the MUP Leskovac, in the Department of Economic Crime. There are numerous documents, memos, which we have addressed to the above mentioned institutions with our signatures. Because of their actions that were contrary to the laws and customs of good behavior, which there are many examples, previously punished, there are many examples of insults, plenty of evidence, but all resignations given by even members of the boards of directors and supervisors, the board of directors has not been working for a year, all these resignations have been given in writing and directed to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. Until today, the health minister has not responded. And finally, since there was enough dilemma about the agriculture minister to be a candidate, we expected the prime minister to give the best solution, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic was proposed. In Serbia, 20,000 tonnes entered one wave, and another 200,000 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans. Its activity was estimated to be inextricably inadequate and inadequate, as it was propagating and facilitating the import of genetically modified soybeans. In the second step of the procedure, she approved the import of genetically modified foods, although it was prohibited, and it was prohibited by the Federal Veterinary and Phytosanitary Inspector. Apparently agriculture with a government like this can't have a perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u959	The word is made by MP Zoran Angelkovic, then by candidate for Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u960	As the previous government worked, we received an answer on December 28th in the final elections. The citizens of Serbia responded negatively, they made it clear that the previous government had worked badly and because our task today was to change the government and choose a new government. They say they've done well. I have to remind them, since they've done a lot of work today in the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the Socialist Party of Serbia, when it left power, had 1,650,000 voters, and that they got 500,000 votes, and I guess it's logical that such a government no longer exists, and I guess it's logical that these political parties that so far ruled with 500,000 voters are no longer the ones who will rule the Republic of Serbia, and that they will pass such laws and all that they've done. Of course, by replacing the government today, Serbian citizens hope that the new government will provide some improvement, will ensure that in Serbia they live better, will ensure what we in the election campaign and we in the Socialist Party of Serbia have demanded and asked for, to stop further affairs, to stop burazer privatisation, but to be a fair privatisation in favour of Serbia's citizens and that we can simply all live better together in Serbia. In that sense, and what is said here today, when we talk about what, which is why and how the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the future government and these political definitions, it is actually giving a response to what happened on December 28th, it gives a response to what the citizens of Serbia want and what they showed on December 28th. Today we've heard basics here. In that sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia wants to today, voting for this government, to assess to the previous government, on the one hand, but also to support what is here in the opening statement of the future Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister who will be elected today or tomorrow, said and said. Of course, we will support those legal projects and that government policy that will lead, which will allow for more production in Serbia, to stop burazeric privatisation, to examine all the abuses that have been in privatisation in the previous three years. I must say immediately, neither the Socialist Party of Serbia nor anyone here in the Assembly Hall, nor the citizens of Serbia want to stop privatisation. They want us to have a privatisation that will provide more production, a larger number of employees, for Serbia to be part of Europe both in production and in exports, not just in imports and everything that happened in the previous period. We hope that the time will pass and that the crisis headquarters will know what they have done to this Serbia, what evil they have done by banishing only the party belongings of the people from these companies and by leading the staff policy on the party line, not by whether someone is of quality and whether he is able to run the company or not. We don't want that on the party line. We support the policy that has been announced here, that public pervs and other places are chosen by the highest quality people, regardless of their political commitment and belongings. We will support those legal projects that will allow all those who know, regardless of their social background, whether their parents can provide their education or not, that those children who can be quality and become academic citizens, that the state of Serbia can help them in this regard. I hope, of course, that this is also the definition of this Government of the Republic of Serbia and that these legislative projects, which will restore national dignity in education that some previous laws have abolished, will be in the legal projects that are mentioned here today, that they will be adopted, that they will be present in parliament. Such legal projects, of course, the SPS will support and we will vote for them. We don't support the government today just to choose the government. We today support and vote for this government to propose such legal projects from which Serbia will be better. To support those projects and in health care that will allow the sick to be treated, not only those who have money. We will support the government's policy when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, which will be for the consistent implementation of Resolution 1244, which will fight for it and which will seek and insist, not only declaratively, but indeed for Serbs who have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija to return, and for what it says in the Resolution to ensure the essential autonomy of the national communities in Kosovo and Metohija, not only Serbs, but other national communities. In addition, it also writes very precisely in Resolution 1244 and mentions Rambuje on several occasions, the political part of Rambuje, which speaks of political and essential autonomy of all national communities in Kosovo and Metohija. For such a policy, we will also vote for such projects that are here in the Serbian Parliament for sure that we will plead and support ourselves. Of course, when it comes to other legal projects and what is said in the opening statement, the SPS wants to support that government policy that will allow us not to be importers of wheat, as this government has done, not to buy 3,170 tonnes, as bought in stock reserves last year, and only two years ago we bought 1,500,000 tonnes of wheat for goods reserves in Serbia. So that we have 1,500,000 tons of wheat in Serbia, to export wheat, to export apples, to export meat, not to import and to destroy agriculture, and thus create conditions that a farmer can sow, that he can harvest and that what he chooses can sell and that he lives normally, because now he can't objectively. We will support the government, of course, which wants to preserve a single Serbia, a decentralised Serbia, but when I say a unique one, not that of a different Cankova, or some other leprosy, but Serbia that will be comprehensive and that will also have a decentralised power, but in which we will know what is the whole and the way we all want Serbia together. Of course we support the government in those projects and according to that policy that speaks, when it comes to the extradition of our citizens, so that the Hague is no longer the only export place where the previous government exported something. The previous government only exported, exported its citizens from Serbia, but to be a place where Serbia will lead a two-way policy, where we will push and seek and be tried here for war crimes, but where the state will bear in mind that it is not only tried by individuals, but wants to hide or spark the history of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we believe that the government will treat all citizens as its citizens, whether it loves them or not, no matter how personal or what it thinks of them as individuals. We believe that this government will make it possible to co-operate with all countries in the world, not just a policy that will confront us with any world power or any part of the world. Only such a policy can this country or, rather, only such a policy can bring the European Union into Serbia and make us part of the European Union. In that sense, of course, such support will last to that point and to that extent while such a policy is being conducted. Some of the politics and some of our efforts we had in our election campaigns have been achieved. We have advocated the right to vote, we have passed a law that allows us, or diaspora to vote, we have advocated that those solutions and those decisions that have been forged here or adopted without a congregation majority or without enough MPs, and one part of them has been adopted, and we hope that, in the coming period, that part will come true. Finally, I want to say, since the elections were mentioned here -- when it comes to the elections, the SPS was never afraid of the elections, but those who are calling the elections must know that there will be no more in the election campaign, I am convinced of that, the government of the Republic of Serbia's communications bureau, or those who ran their campaign and who were their chiefs of media space in Serbia. They will not be there, and let them look at themselves, then, where they will be in such an election campaign. The SPS, if this policy is not implemented by the Prime Minister here, of course it will be ready for the election. But we are convinced that politics will be implemented, that citizens will be better, that Serbia will be more dignified and that this government will live for four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u961	The word has a candidate for Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u962	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the end of today's debate, I will take the opportunity to respond to a few remarks, put here on the agenda, and also to the composition of the government. I will have a final chance for this tomorrow, I will say something that I will not talk about today, but at the very beginning I would like to thank all those who spoke today, for the remarks they made, even those who are the most distant from the views I have presented by the Serbian Government. Each one of these remarks helps me in some way, to ask myself once again if any of the attitudes that have been expressed here are correct or to simply strengthen myself in the fact that some of the attitudes that have been expressed here are correct. I will begin, of course, from several of the strictest remarks that have been heard here and that have somehow united parties of various political and ideological definitions. The first is the observation that the program is not clear enough, that there is no vision in it. You know, if we look at everything that's been said in every presentation of every new government program, it's the most common observation, almost general place. I sought, to the extent that my presentation, opportunity and your attention allow, to simply point out how the DSS and all parties gathered in the future Serbian government view the country's future development, the direction of this development. I have to say that I didn't deal with numbers, and I didn't do numbers on purpose; it's an important direction, what will be done in certain areas, the numbers are dangerous, they can seduce. Someone will remind you of them. There were many figures, the rights of the avalanche in the election campaign, came from parties that were in the Serbian government and there was a real competition in this. Do I remind you, do I even mention these numbers, how many unemployed there will be, how much the purchasing power of the population will increase? Of course, at that very moment for anyone who could think for themselves, the real question was why for the past three years nothing was done. The real question is how can someone so easily offer promises of this kind, and that's why in this program I've chosen another time to say what we want to do, to give perspective, and, of course, in all areas, no one is left behind. Secondly, I'm resented not to mention the deadlines. There's no problem with the deadlines. As you know, and without the deadlines of a party whose president I have done much to do, we did not need any deadlines to propose a series of important laws to the Serbian Parliament, which she did not take into account, including a very important, conflict of interest law. And finally, more important than all the laws, and that's the constitution. We also showed on this occasion that regardless of the deadlines, I will stick to the constitution because we talked a lot about it, because it is an important place in my presentation, to propose one, the other, the third version of the constitution, and in doing so from the Serbian Government, through its commission and in all other ways absolutely nothing comes up which would look like a comprehensive text of the constitution. Let me remind you how many different constitutional proposals have been made so far. One party, another party, NGOs, even this party that was in the government until yesterday and which had its own interior minister, Liberal or New Democracy, and it appeared after it fell out of the government, with its proposal for a constitution. Those who sat in the Serbian government did not have the constitutional proposal and the whole of Serbia knows why they did not have it. Simply because that constitution would mean automatically calling new elections. These choices were being run away like the devil from the cross. So it doesn't take any deadlines to do something, and we've shown that without deadlines, we can do it. I won't say, when it comes to deadlines, how wrong it has been for the Assembly of the State Community, and it's not so much a problem, I am convinced, in the separatism it has in Montenegro, as irresponsiblely as it is, in the wake of yesterday's DOS majority in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. How much more important the law, not much, but essential and essential for the functioning of the state community, should have been passed and whether it was passed. The ones about state symbols, the one about property, the one about the military, it was all supposed to be done. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly have not been brought in. Don't tell me about the deadlines. It wasn't all done, and it was time. There was time for travels around the world, to this day. Some DOS officials and DOS majority, the Democratic Party, competed in travel around the world. I am convinced that if I were to put the number of days they spent traveling around the world, including the president of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and the days they spent in the assembly, then this sauce would weigh on this first side. That's the thing. The deadlines mean something, but apparently for some people and some parties, they mean nothing. It is mentioned in the Constitution, and it has been said, as so many times so far, that the Constitution and life are two different things, that they have absolutely nothing to do with each other, that it is a simple tatter, every story of the Constitution, of the laws, of the rule of law, of the rule of law, of the rule of law, all of this is irrelevant in relation to what is said here, to something that is real life. Since I started the exhibition in this way, reminding you of what Serbia was 200 years ago, I will remind you of Bozidar Grujovic of 1805, who said that "what food is an individual is the laws of the state and as an individual without food cannot live, also the state without the law of failure." The best example of a state that fails without laws, without institutions, is what we found a few months ago on December 28th, all this desolation of the institution, this void of laws, this general lawlessness, this disrespect of judicial decisions, any decisions to be made, the Constitutional Court, the regular courts and all that. Then, very interestingly, I'm resented for my insistence that the government should be held accountable. Naturally, since it came from those who believed by yesterday that the basic quality of the government was its irresponsibility and that it could be a sign of equality between what is to God's reform, quasireform character of the government and its irresponsibility. The government must be responsible, and how much she has changed in one area, another, third, will judge the people. The first thing that stands before her, the only addition that should stand by the government's name, is that she must be responsible. Everything else is irrelevant. Anything else will be tried by voters. Finally, I heard one amazing thing, that this attempt is to indicate that one kind of tax should be reduced, and the other should be increased, again an empty story, because God's problem is in production. As the production problem seems to best show what we found in the elections on December 28th and with the people's court on production, on any type of production and wasteland in production left behind by the Serbian government. They were told to question privatisation. We said the review in those cases where the law was wrong, about corruption and everything else. We are resented to bring legal uncertainty to the Serbian government in this attack or in these objections, that investors, especially those foreign ones, will be afraid. Believe that nothing can scare them more than this wasteland you left behind: institutions that are not there, laws that are not there, judicial decisions that are not respected. I've talked to these people, one single decision of the Constitutional Court that you didn't want to implement, and how many decisions you didn't want to make, that's the end for every investor, for anyone who wanted to invest in that country. It's just the alpha and the omega of any thinking of people who do serious business. I heard one more thing, that change must be unpopular, that reform governments must be at odds with the people and that it is the best proof that they are on the right track. They are on the right path that way, but they are not on the same path as the people. You can't boast that the validity of the reforms proves that they match only the ruling oligarchy, and not the people, and that the people's concern is to God's populism, as it could be heard in this room. No, taking care of the people is about the people, and this other thing, what you're up against, is something else. It's the worst, blackest elitism. Finally, from this part of the remarks made by those who were in the Serbian government by yesterday, along with everyone else, were very constructive, so one MP had a proposal for the Ministry of Faith, not more or less. He stated here that I had received a letter from representatives of several religious communities, proposing that former religion minister Vojislav Milovanovic continue to be a minister of religion. It comes from the Democratic Party. I ask the question now, if I had accepted that remark if someone from that same party would have said, simply, that I was advocating religious fundamentalism. On the basis of which someone who puts together a single government, besides a well-intentioned effort to take into account all opinions, should be healthy for granted to accept the opinion of representatives of certain religious communities? I took everything into account and, of course, I felt that the previous minister of religion had done an important job, when it came to religious communities, but one job that may be more material and building than spiritual. I felt that it took a kind of change, that a man should come to this place to pay more attention to something that is a spiritual mission in the church, which is usually the essence of church action. On the other hand, I have, I must say, given one fact that this minister of faith has remained in the DOS government until the last minute. Nothing could separate him from that government and so just brought a simple court and a proposal that the one proposed by the religious communities, if they or he himself, would not be on this list. Now several objections from representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, relating to opportunities in the country, whether it is the state union, Kosovo, Vojvodina, etc. I will respond to this relatively briefly and start with Kosovo and Metohija. There is another possibility, after all the accidents, to institutionally protect the Serb animal in Kosovo. It's a kind of decentralisation of power, a kind of gathering of Serbs where they live. Of course, it's been said that someone will stay out of those territories. Someone also stayed outside Republika Srpska, in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are still other models of protection for Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija through personal, cultural autonomy, etc. Given everything that has been tried so far, given everything we have seen and experienced, I do not see that there is another way for Serbs in Kosovo to be protected, besides all other funds. Of course there is Resolution 1244 and, as it is said here, there are certain provisions of that Resolution that have not been applied, I know very well, when it comes to the return of the army in a certain number. I'm afraid that there were representatives of the Serbian Radical Party in some way in conflict with themselves. Just as they solidly advocated the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of perhaps more Serbia than the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, I think they have easily released down the water of Montenegro, starting with something they called the ruling separatism in Montenegro, and in this respect, they have advocated the speedy launch of the referendum. This country, Serbia-Montenegro, has a simple name that corresponds to what it is -- Serbia-Montenegro. She can defend herself in general. I'm afraid giving up or giving up one part of her means giving up all of her other parts. I fear that Kosovo and the Metohija cannot be preserved if the referendum is easily accepted. Let him come, let him come when his time is right. The opportunities are slowly changing, the situation is different, in the people is much more favourable than when it comes to the bearers of power, but things will no doubt change slowly. Had there not been those who forgot their first place in Belgrade, not around the world, when it comes to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly and the state union, things would have been different. Vojvodina, I agree, here's one place where I accept the suggestion given in this room, it wasn't about her in my presentation. There were no words because I felt that this issue was being resolved through the future constitution, institutionally strengthened, and that it was, of course, Vojvodina's place in Serbia, and that Serbia's constitution should first be adopted, so that any omnibuses, basic laws, declarations and everything else should be adopted. The problem is serious, and I'm taking it seriously in my own seriousness. The problem is also serious because we currently have a congregation in Vojvodina that is likely to represent the real mood of the public. She has absolutely nothing to do with that mood. It shows something the population, the people of Vojvodina won't, not what he really wants. The first opportunity, this opportunity is not far away, sooner or later it will simply solve a lot of things that are forced, lightly, too quickly brought or done, in a few months will disappear. Some of the adopted in this way, I am convinced of being the shortest symbols in the history of any state or part of it. There were also words about foreign policy, and of course it's not something that the Serbian government is primarily concerned with, but certainly in such an orderly state community, what the Serbian government is thinking, it wants and has an impact on that policy. Right away, I would like to divulge any suspicion that I am in favour of that kind of policy that is aimed at only one part of the world; it is, first of all, and I said in my presentation, pro-European, because we are part of Europe. In all my performances, I have advocated that Europe is a little more eastern, that it is to the Urals, that there are, of course, alongside that great country across the ocean, the United States, and other very important members of the Security Council, good and traditional friends of this country, and I am talking about Russia and China. By my activity at the time I was president of the SRJ, I showed how much I care about it and that there is another part of the world that is very important to us, both politically and culturally and businessly. It's a once-in-a-lifetime unclassified world. Because of such statements in the Western press, I was very often attacked as someone who advocated non-classified politics. I was simply in favour of a balanced foreign policy, which is not the current policy of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and its ministry. I stood up for a very balanced policy, and Europe, and America, and Russia, and China, and this is the third world. Finally, what is also said, which is painful – The Hague. As you know, I've put out how this cooperation must take place. By trial in front of our courts, with all our efforts possible. On the other hand, by giving help to those who are condemned there, which is said in my presentation and in the form in which you received it. The question of these people, regardless, and especially when it comes to government officials, is the question of this country. There was a view that these people, while in Serbia or Serbia or Montenegro, are our problem, and when they go to The Hague, they stop being our problem and become The Hague's problem. They then proved to be even more our problem and must be our problem, so we must have a clear and specific relationship. I even suggested some new measures that are possible to simply loosen the Hague noose. What I think about that court, I've shown in the past few years, it has to be lived and survived, and what and how my opinion of that court is thought and in this second part of the world, so you can keep track of it every day in the evaluations of the policy that I've advocated. I am convinced that this is a policy in the middle, between full refusal to co-operate with the world and The Hague, and, to use the direct word, fully vasal policies, co-operation, acceptance in all dictatorships from The Hague and the conversion of our institutions, including the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague Court, in the establishment of The Hague Court. It's possible something third, and that's the third thing in life most often, and when it comes to The Hague, and a lot of other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-02-0.u963	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. It's at 9.30 a.m. on the second floor of the board of directors. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 172 MPs attend the session. Please determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to continue the debate on the first item of the agenda. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Nenad Bogdanovic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - The President's election, Vice-President and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure, has a replica by Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
