ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6942	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 129 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from being attended by MP Goran Svilanovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTITY IMPLEMENTATION TO THE PEOPLE'S JOBS FOR THIS POINT OF THE END OF THE END OF THE END OF THE END Proposals for a decision on the application of immunity to MPs Dr Zarko Obradovic, Hranislav Perić, Ljiljana Nestorović, Natasa Jovanovic, Ivan Josimov, Aleksandr Vukic, Branislav Blažic and Bogoljub Pejčić, submitted by the Administrative Board on 11 May 2004, 2 May 2004. Proposal for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic, who was submitted by the Administrative Board on 15 July 2004, 3. Proposal for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Milorad Mircic, who was submitted by the Administrative Board on 18 August 2004, 4. Proposals for a decision to apply immunity to the People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Natasa Micic and Aleksandr Vukic, who were submitted by the Administrative Board on 24 September 2004, 5. A proposal for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic, who was submitted by the Administrative Board on 5 October 2004. You received a notice from the Administrative Board from the session, held on 5 October 2004, which concluded to withdraw from the procedure report 28 No.: 013-1219/04 of 11 May 2004, with a proposal for a decision in the part relating to the application of immunity to Rados Ljusic, since Rados Ljusic resigned as MP, which the National Assembly held at the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session in 2004, held on 13 July 2004. National MPs Miodrag Djidic, Ksenija Milivojevic and Goran Paunovic, members of the Committee, have issued an opinion on a proposal for the application of immunity to MPs against whom criminal charges have been filed under official duty. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of promoter Tomislav Nikolic, chairman of the Administrative Committee and Petar Cvetkovic, deputy president, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on proposals for decisions in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION TO SERBIA MEET MEETING THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC You have received a proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, with a correction since 5 October 2004. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposal's representative, MP Goran Paunaovic, want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for a decision in general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all the points of the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2004, I set out on 13 October 2004 as a day for voting on all points of the agenda, starting at 14.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6943	I ask all MPs to come in and throw in the cards, in a minute we start, if not, we'll take a break. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Please confirm the quorum. I ask technicians and professional services, technique is a miracle of nature. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work and decision of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, according to Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION ON THE EU ASSOCIATION After the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a resolution, we move to a decision on amendments. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Ivica Dacic and Zarko Obradovic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 56, it didn't vote 24, out of the total... So, the technical service gentleman says we need to confirm the quorum once again, and only then the vote, to reset the system. Excuse me, I once again ask the MPs to establish the quorum. Now we can move on to the vote. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Ivica Dacic and Zarko Obradovic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Since the professional service wants a break, we're not gonna take a break, we're going to go for a manual count. Call the officers. I'd like the professional service to try to remove the malfunction in the meantime. Please, MPs, let's concentrate, we won't let any kind of doubt or manipulation exist. So, since it is an incorrect system, I put the amendments submitted together by MPs Ivica Dacic and Zarko Obradovic. Who's in favor of this amendment? Nobody. Who's against it? I'm asking the service to count. Thank you. Who's being held back? Nobody. Give me the report. There's no need for a break. So this is the Serbian Parliament and it will work according to the law, and if the service is unable to count the number of MPs, all of whom have raised their hand, then next time we will move to a single statement. So this will certainly be clear and loud to you, voted for, against and abstention. Therefore, I ask you to make an effort to count the MPs when they all raise their hands as many as there are. Be nice. We'll wait for the count on this amendment, and then we'll see if the electronic system works. There were no abstentions against 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivica Dacic and Zarko Obradovic. We'll try to see if the system works now. So I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. It doesn't work? Okay, then we'll do it again. So, I'm closing the vote and I'm making a statement. Against 104, there was no vote of 16, of 120 MPs; no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right, we'll continue, please, professional service to prepare, slowly. So, I ask the representatives of the professional service to come in so that we can hold a vote. So, I ask-- who's for this amendment? Nobody. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. Can I have the report? Thank you. So against 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since the National Assembly has completed its decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a resolution in general. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union. I'm asking, who's up for acceptance? Let's wait for the professional service to count. You counted it, didn't you? Thank you. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) Let me see the results. For 129 MPs, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union. Congratulations. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION BY THE PEOPLE'S JOBS After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Dr Zarko Obradovic in criminal proceedings of KT No. 1170/02, launched by the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 151 People's Messenger, against one and abstention one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Dr Zarko Obradovic in the KT No criminal procedure. 1170/02, launched by the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Hranislav Peric in criminal proceedings of KT No. 259/02, launched by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. For 143 MPs, one abstention. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Hranislav Peric in the KT no criminal procedure. 259/02, launched by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Hranislav Peric in criminal proceedings of KT No. 395/03, launched by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. For 145 MPs, abstention one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Hranislav Peric in the KT no criminal procedure. 395/03, launched by the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I am putting the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Ljiljana Nestorovic in criminal proceedings VIII K No. 431/04, which was initiated by a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. For 143 MPs, against one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Ljiljana Nestorovic in criminal proceedings VIII K No. 431/04, which was initiated by a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Natasa Jovanovic in the KT No criminal procedure. 1019/2002, launched by the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 141 People's Messenger, abstention one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Natasa Jovanovic in the KT No criminal procedure. 1019/2002, launched by the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Ivan Josimov in criminal proceedings K No. 4/04, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the Municipality court in the White Church. For 136 MPs, one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Ivan Josimov in criminal proceedings K No. 4/04, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the Municipality court in the White Church. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Aleksandr Vukic in criminal proceedings VII K No. 1296/03, which was initiated in a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 141, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Aleksandr Vukic in criminal proceedings VII K No.1296/03, which was initiated in a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Alexander Vukic in criminal proceedings K No. 429/04, which was initiated by a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Is anyone against it? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 140, there were none against and withheld. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Aleksandr Vukic in criminal proceedings K No. 429/04, which was initiated in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the application of immunity to MP Aleksandr Vukic in criminal proceedings VI K No. 683/2004, which was initiated in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) For 137, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Alexander Vukic in criminal proceedings VI K No. 683/2004, which was initiated in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Branislav Blazic in criminal proceedings V K No. 1747/03, launched by the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) For 131, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Branislav Blažić in criminal proceedings V K No. 1747/03, launched by the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings II K No. 1472/02, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? One. ) For 141 abstention one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings II K No. 1472/02, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings VIII K No. 1877/03, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 150, there were none against and withheld. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings VIII K No. 1877/03, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic in criminal proceedings K No. 654/04, launched in front of the Municipality court in Valjevo by private prosecutor Stanko Sutotic of Belgrade and private prosecutor Radoslav Tadic of Ub. I ask the MPs, who's in? Does anyone mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? One. For 140, abstention one. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic in criminal proceedings K No. 654/04, launched in front of the Municipality court in Valjevo by private prosecutor Stanko Sutotic of Belgrade and private prosecutor Radoslav Tadic of Ub. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milorad Mircic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XI K 662/04, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in favour. Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) For 143, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milorad Mircic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XI K 662/04, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Natasa Micic in criminal proceedings Ki No. 1596/03, launched before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in favour? Who's against it? One. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 136, one against. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Natasa Micic in criminal proceedings Ki No. 1596/03, launched before the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milorad Mircic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XI K 1294/01, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the City Court in Novi Sad. I ask the MPs, who's in favour? Who's against it? One. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 140, against one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Milorad Mircic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. XI K 1294/01, which was filed in a private lawsuit before the City Court in Novi Sad. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Alexander Vukic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. VII K 1296/03, which was filed on a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I ask the MPs, who's in favour? Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) For 138, there were none against and abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Alexander Vukic in the criminal proceedings of the business. No. VII K 1296/03, which was filed on a private lawsuit before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I put the motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings K No. 1602/04, launched in front of Belgrade's First Municipal Court on private criminal charges by private prosecutor Mladjan Komnenic. I ask the MPs, who's in favour? Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? One. ) For 142, abstention one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to apply immunity to MP Bogoljub Pejcic in criminal proceedings K No. 1602/04, launched in front of Belgrade's First Municipal Court on private criminal charges by private prosecutor Mladjan Komnenic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION TO SERVANT THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision, in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs, who's in favour? Is anyone against it? No, I don't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. For 142, there were no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We are deciding on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which the Members of the Parliaments pointed to during the sitting. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic, at a session on 7 October 2004, at 12.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Who's in? Nobody. Who's against it? Whoever was restrained, please raise your hand. Nobody. Thus, 116 MPs concluded that the Rules of Procedure had not been injured, against and withheld. In order to determine whether there were those who did not vote, we need to determine how many people are present. I ask the service to count how many MPs are present, in order to announce, you do not need to raise your hand, and how many MPs are present. 147 MPs are present. On that basis, I find that 31 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you all for your seriousness and patience to do your job. Thank you. (The session ends at 16.35 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6944	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH OTHER SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 13th October 2004 (The first day of work) (The session began at 16.35 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Since our electronic voting system is down, I'm setting a break by 17.00 hours. [[After break – 17.35.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has reported that MP Goran Svilanovic will be absent. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, as well as other acts in the proposed agenda of the session. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate. The government of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, with the proposals for a decision on granting consent to the decisions amending the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisation for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Works, (g) the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, (d) the National Employment Service, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly on 8 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against one, they did not vote two out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Health Project, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against 51, it did not vote eight out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against 62, one of the 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 64, two of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Electricity System Management Project, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 63, nine of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the City Water Project - Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 65, nine of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, held on 19 September 2004, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 September 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 184, against two, it did not vote 13, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Goran Paunovic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposals for the law on the granting of counter-guarantees of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro for loans from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in Serbia, the Emergency Health Project, EPS - Project II, Belgrade Reconstruction Project, the Energy System Management Project and the City Water Project - Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia (2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Goran Paunovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 124, against 65, nine out of 198 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly of Votes has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 129, 70 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the 2004 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for a decision to give consent to decisions amending the Financial Plans of the Mandatory Social Insurance Organisations for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Individuals, (g) the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, (d) the National Employment Service, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Health Project, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance, 9. The election of members of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest from the List submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, 10. A proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances in the Belgrade City Assembly elections, held on 19 September 2004. As proposals for the examination of acts under emergency procedure have been accepted, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. IN THE framework of this point, we are considering proposals on granting consent to decisions on changes to the financial plans of compulsory social insurance organisations for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (c) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (g) the Republic Health Insurance Office, (d) the National Employment Service. You have received the bill of law and the proposals for decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Predrag Marković, Milos Aligrudić, together Arsen Đurić and Slavoljub Matic, Milorad Belic, Milovan Marković, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Snezana Lakićić - Stojačić, Milorad Krstin, Zoran Krasić, Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Verica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Zoran Mašić and Milomir Minić. The amendments to be submitted until the start of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6947	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since this is a very important item of the agenda, most important for the government, the opportunity for this point is indicated once a year or for the bad governments several times. First of all, to Mr. President, why is the government not in the benches? This is the only point concerning the entire government, the Prime Minister. Secondly, my proposal, given that we are already at the end of working hours, we have all made public statements about what we think about the budget and I think that the Government, unless there are no secret agreements, is still not sure whether the draft budget law will pass in the Assembly. Since a parliamentary group that supports the government and does not participate in the government, it says it needs to be convinced that the draft budget law is good, the minister will have to spend a lot of time to convince it. That can't be done in eight minutes, Mr. President, and I don't expect you to use the ruse to speak only to the minister today, and that we're talking about this agenda tomorrow, and there may even be a possibility that the minister won't even be at the National Assembly session. I suggest we stop now, seven minutes before the end of business hours, this session. It's Article 81, based on Article 81, and we're going to continue normally by the Rules of Procedure tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-13-0.u6948	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of MP Tomislav Nikolic. Who's in favour of terminating this session at this hour? For 101, against 42, with five abstentions, it did not vote 42, out of 190 MPs. We continue to work on this agenda item in the morning at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Of course, the answer I owe Mr. Nikolic. The finance minister, who is the only one that is necessary, this is a rebalance, not a budget, is present and is therefore not invited by the entire government. Thank you.
