ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 155 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that the halls are present at 183 MPs and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slobodan Mihajlović, Zoran Micovic, Dejan Rajčić, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and Natasa Micic. At the same time, I shall inform you that, in accordance with Article 39(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the Serbian Parliamentary Movement of Reconstruction -- New Serbia has been changed by the president and deputy president of the parliamentary group. The president of the parliamentary group is Veroljub Stevanovic, a national MP and Deputy President Miroslav Markicevic, a national MP. I would like to inform you that Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Nebojsa Covic, President of the Serbia-Montenegro Co-ordination Centre and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija, attend today's session of the National Assembly of Serbia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Presidents of Parliament's parties, on Friday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, which was submitted by representatives of parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The session, which was presented to you, contained a proposal for a single-point session agenda: a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, submitted by representatives of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. Three, 210 MPs did not vote for 207, a total of 210. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija You received a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, submitted by representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report on the work of the Committee on Defence and Security and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 17 to 19 March 2004, reports by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on International Relations, a document on the direction of action in the preservation of cultural monuments in Kosovo and Metohija, which was provided by the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia for the Metohija and the conclusions reached by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly on the consideration of the current political and security situation in the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina in light of developments in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. I ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to report to the National Assembly on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1433	Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of today's session of the Serbian Parliament is clear: it is necessary for the Serbian Parliament to make clear guidelines for the continued functioning of the government and other state bodies following the latest escalation of violence and terror against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija from 17 March and after that date. So we need to decide what we're going to do next, what's most important in what we're going to do next, and that's what makes this session of the Serbian Parliament really important. But one more thing is that the Assembly comes out with a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and the Metohija behind which all the parliamentary groups in the Assembly stood. In order for further action to be clearly defined and deliver results when it comes to protecting Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and their rights, it is still necessary once again, in a moment, to gather all the relevant facts and to recall some recent but forgotten events and circumstances related to Kosovo and Metohija; and it is necessary, above all, to call things after 17 March, without any environment, a real name. For the first time, I will start from this, a pre-planned and broad-coordinated terrorist action in Kosovo and Metohija since 17 March called ethnic cleansing, not only in our country but also in the international community. I add, there can be a sign of equality between terrorism in its worst and darkest form, as we saw in New York on 11 September, in Madrid on 11 March and in Kosovo and Metohija on 17 March. The difference, of course, exists. The terrorist actions in Madrid and New York took place in urban areas. They were clearly defined and concentrated. In Kosovo, terrorism took place in a wide range of places, it was harder to organise it, but as much as this terrorist action, from the point of view of the objectives of terrorism, was more interesting and dangerous, with us coming to a significant difference, no matter what we thought of organised terrorism – the one in New York and Madrid was not focused on ethnic cleansing, it was not intended for ethnic cleansing, and this one, since 17 March in Kosovo and Metohija, was aimed at ethnic cleansing. But, of course, we should move on. That ethnic cleansing didn't begin on March 17th, it started much earlier, it was more massive than that of March 17th. Two-thirds of Serbs and non-Albanians have left Kosovo and Metohija since 10 June 1999. Between then and before 17 March, according to some data, Serbs disappeared from 889 settlements in Kosovo and Metohija. But sometimes much more striking, more powerful, more tragically, the complete data, not this global data, as it changed ethnically by cleaning Kosovo and Metohija. Let's look at a few cities in Kosovo. Pristina, in which there were 48,884 Serbs in 1991 and the following years, in 1999, after 10 June, only 900 Serbs, in 2002, had 225. Today, there is not a single Serb in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo and Metohija. Obilic, 1999, before 10 June 1999, before KFOR and UNMIK arrived in Kosovo, there were 3,000 Serbs. Then, before 2002, there were still 1,500. And later, today, there is not a single Serb in Obilić. Kosovo's Polje, before 10 June 1999, had 4,000 Serbians alive. The number has been halved, no Serb is present in Kosovo's Polje. They were in Prizren before June 10, 1999, at 9,500. Then immediately after KFOR arrived, the number was reduced to 102. There is not a single Serb in Prizren today. Security measures, taken by the international community in the image of KFOR and UNMIK police, were inadequate. They were inadequate at the very beginning, when there were over 45,000 KFOR troops and more than 10,000 UNMIK police officers in Kosovo. But that number, insufficient and at that point, was shrinking. KFOR checkpoints were removed, followed by Serb killings in individual smaller enclaves. I only mention Cernica and Staro Gacko, where there have been murders in recent times, in which there are several hundred inhabitants, some 300 people, where the Serbs' deaths began when it came to Old Gacko, killing reapers in July 1999. KFOR pulled checkpoints. And if I were to show in general that adequate security measures have not been taken in Kosovo, how responsibility is borne by one who has taken the obligation to care for security, KFOR and UNMIK police, I will only list three essential essential facts. It's about the fact that there's no security talking, first of all, that there's no going back to the displaced. The number is very small, several hundred or slightly more than one thousand of the 200,000 displaced from Kosovo and Metohija. If security existed in Kosovo and Metohija, then a large number of displaced people would return to Kosovo. The second fact, which says there was no security in Kosovo before 17 March, is that there is no freedom of movement. There is not a single piece of Europe, and it is difficult to find in a world where freedom of movement is thus limited and unthinkable. One of the oldest, oldest human freedoms simply does not exist in Kosovo and Metohija unless you live in prison, in ghettos, in enclaves and unless KFOR leads you from one place to another. Third, the fact that security was not before 17 March speaks to a large number of ethnically motivated beast crimes against Serbs and non-Albanian lives. After a violent terrorist act on March 17th, the question arises – who are its organisers? Very clear and most transparent in the first row, the first echelon, the political and military organised terrorist organisation "National Movement of Kosovo", "The National Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo", various fighting organisations, which gathered former KLA membership and the Presevo Liberation Army, Medvedje and Bujanovac. They were all linked to the interim institutions of Kosovo, the Kosovo Police and the Kosovo Protection Corps, as well as the political parties of Kosovo Albanians. The Kosovo Police Service played a special role in the March 17th and thereafter events, taking care of everything but the security of Serbs and non-Albanians. She, Serbs and non-Albanians, encouraged them to evacuate. And in Prizren, the Kosovo Police Service took part in the exorcising, robbing and burning of Serbs' assets. In certain situations KFOR and UNMIK police offered evacuation to Serbs, after which it immediately, as agreed, led to the burning of their assets. Today, KFOR and UNMIK are clearly responsible for March 17th for what happened on March 17th. But, of course, to remind you of something -- in the formal sense of KFOR and UNMIK, they took that responsibility by Resolution 1244 and the Military and Technical Agreement; they were signed on 10 June 1999. I will remind you of another very, very interesting document on the demilitarisation of the KLA, which was signed in Pristina on 21 June. It was signed by KFOR's commander-in-chief then, General Michael Jackson and Hashim Thaci. The agreement (I cite the exact formulation from it) explicitly states that KFOR is responsible for maintaining a safe environment for all Kosovo citizens. The expression that was then used is demilitarization. The real question that immediately arises is whether a terrorist organization can be demilitarized, it can only disarm itself. What was happening in the days of March 17th and then began with a large media, quickly exposed, disproved lie, handed down by the Albanian media in Kosovo, to drown three Albanian children in Ibra, who were accused of Serbs. As the media manipulation attempt was questioned in less than 24 hours, other media manipulations began, that in Kosovo, police hours were in effect, that a sick Albanian child was not hospitalized at the hospital in Vranje, that Albanians, once again under Serbian terror, these Serb hands that remained in Kosovo, evacuated women and children in the direction of Albania and Macedonia. Then an Albanian came an attempt to light a mosque in Oraovica, in the Presevo municipality, which simply required that network of misinformation to supplement, creating the impression that it was actually aggressors, terrorists who were victims of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. Now, some have discovered that the international community was discovered after 17 March, that there was no security, that great evil was being prepared, that the great evil had happened. The question arises whether this has been talked about again, but has there been any warning in the international community, which is very important for us, that has been said before, that there have been any earlier warnings about what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija since 10 June 1999? That's right, that's what it was. I will give only one example -- on November 5th 1999, the Security Council was given two reports on the state of human rights in Kosovo and Metohija. One report was submitted by Secretary-General Bernard Kouchner, the other by Jirzi Dinstbur, a special rapporteur for human rights in the former Yugoslavia. Those two reports were completely different. The Security Council accepted Kusner's report, along with naturally dissonant assessments in the Security Council of permanent members of Russia and China. Dinstber said in his report, it is worth reminding, which is on November 5th 1999, that he created a de facto government that appoints mayors, directors of businesses and other officials in Kosovo in the work of ethnic cleansing, that (i.e. the words of his report) the KLA has created a de facto government that appoints mayors, directors of businesses and other officials, conducts an ethnic cleaning policy at jobs and supports the confiscation of non-Albanians' assets, and even some Albanians. And, for a reason, Dinstbur warned that no one who reached out for a weapon, especially those who committed war crimes, could have any public function. Today would be a very interesting statistical data – how many of those who have reached for weapons are in public functions in the provisional institutions of Kosovo and Metohija? So with foreigners and the international community -- I think that a warning from our midst came much, much earlier when it came to the destruction of cultural monuments in Kosovo and Metohija -- there has been a loss for these, since 1999, 148 destroyed churches and monasteries. Desanka Maksimovic warned of what is being prepared in Kosovo in 1968 in her song "Granica", whose first verses still have the same strength they had today. Today even more than they had so many years ago: "Grapes, if only you weren't of stone, if you could be in heaven." How to preserve monuments from Albanian terror, except that they are removed from their true climate. Because there will be more words about this, and because one longer exposure would really require a written form and would burden this conversation, which seeks to come out with a single resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, in a few words I will list what the state authorities and the Serbian government have done in the past days. The internal, political, diplomatic and foreign-political meetings of the Security Committee of Serbia, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, the Committee on International Relations, those dealing with cultural issues, also took place. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee monitored the situation there with its presence in Kosovo and Metohija and proved the simple presence of our authorities, our state in Kosovo and Metohija. A session of the Serbian government was held in an extended composition, with the participation of several members of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, representatives of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. Several meetings of the Council of Ministers, the Supreme Defence Council, were held. An emergency Security Council session was initiated, where our representatives, the foreign minister, were held. A number of contacts have been established with officials, foreign and international, in a number of meetings, phone conversations, in a number of concrete appeals that certain KFOR units are responding and protecting Serbs in Kosovo. I mean, above all, the contacts held by the president of Serbia-Montenegro, Marovic, who had me, who had the Chief of Staff, defence ministers, foreign affairs ministers, the Human and Minority Rights Minister, the head of the Coordination Centre. I used the earlier planned trip to Brussels to discuss the right situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I am talking about the talks I had with European officials in Brussels and with NATO Secretary-General, also in Brussels. When it comes to humanitarian activities, intervention from stock reserves, actions co-ordinated with the Refugees' Commissioner, the Red Cross of Serbia and the Coordination Centre, a larger quantity of goods was delivered. But what was most important, what I repeat once again, and what I urge our public to respond to, are these assembly houses, are containers that represent the best refuge for those who have lost their roof over their heads. The aid came from the other side, from the Russian Federation, when it comes to help in containers, from Republika Srpska. Security activities with focus were not only on ensuring greater security for Serbs in Kosovo under the given circumstances, but also on all citizens and their assets in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other cities. With great difficulty and damage done, not only material but also immaterial, I mean the burning of mosques in Belgrade and Nis, however, it was achieved. The most massive demonstrations the government organised against Albanian terrorism had a peaceful character. When it comes to cultural and media activities, all the ambassadors of the European Union, the United States and foreign officials have been informed of the systematic destruction of Serb cultural monuments and sanctities in Kosovo and Metohija belonging to the European and Serbian heritage. Measures have been taken to protect them and move to rebuild them. At the same time, an appeal was made to all media to give absolute priority to informing about the terror of Albanian extremists in Kosovo. In the end, I want to say something about what is the government's task, and I see it within the framework of what is defined in the motion for a resolution that lies ahead of you. The motion for a resolution follows that the Serbian government undertakes to prepare a proposal for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo, first from Kosovo and Metohija being an inalienable part of Serbia, secondly that Serbia must ensure the survival, security and return of Kosovo Serbs and third, that those Serbs in Kosovo must have new institutional guarantees of their position and better protection of their rights. So the first thing that is needed is to ensure the survival of Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo. We are entering at this point in the stage in which they will strive in the world, in the international community, for everything that has happened to be relativized, reduced, divorced, to somehow restore this symmetry of responsibility. They're both guilty. It's an interethnic conflict. This must not be allowed. There are many authorities in Kosovo, there are surpluses of government, there are excess authorities, so someone has to be responsible, someone has to make an account. We have the authority of the international community, we have temporary institutions and someone simply has to be responsible. Responsibility is a condition that life in Kosovo begins to normalise at least. Can anyone conclude, this is one warning at this time, that all those who have invested this much in preparing, planning, organising March 17th, an action of ethnic cleansing, will so easily give up their plans? In addition, the association of former KLA members is already announcing new protests in Kosovo today. Secondly, when it comes to these measures, all displaced people must have a roof over their heads, and that's what I was talking about. In the end, I will say a few words about something that I think, as a further action to keep Kosovo and Metohija together with Serbia, while Serbs remain in Kosovo and Metohija, only makes sense. These are new institutional guarantees for the protection of Serbs and non-Albanians. That's what I was already talking about in my exposé about the Serbian government programme. Those guarantees must have some kind of territorial component. I was talking about territorial, personal and cultural autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo. I was talking about decentralisation of the government, which the Council of Europe advocated in 2002. I was talking about cantonisation, given not so many cantons in Switzerland, such as those in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, or in its one entity, in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was talking, then, about cantonisation in the light of some of our 1998 Serbian plans. Of course, these 1998 plans are inconclusive in particular, but it does not mean that the very idea of the territorial protection of Serbs in Kosovo is unfulfilled in this way. At all, when the word autonomy is mentioned, I don't know what's controversial about that word. As if, especially when it comes to the international community, Kosovo's autonomy can, autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo cannot. Autonomy is a word that means independence; freedom, which sounds nice, except when it should be given to Serbs in Kosovo. A autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo is needed to allow Serbs and Albanians to live next to each other. Today, I guess it's clear to all of us that the multiethnic paradise in Kosovo is invaluable, even more unreal than the communist utopia in a classless society. If it could still be realized, then a multiethnic society in Kosovo and Metohija is not possible. Something else is possible, a civilised co-existence of Serbs and Albanians and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija is possible. I don't see any other form of effective protection for Serbs in Kosovo. If this assembly, the government and our authorities can't fight for it, then I don't know what they should be dealing with in Kosovo and Kosovo at all. If he can't do that, then the question is, how can you offer anything more than that? In the end, quite finally, after all I've talked about international contacts, perhaps this clarification is not necessary, but that there is no doubt that there is no confusion at all in the end, all of what I was talking about, when it comes to political measures, when it comes to additional measures of institutional protection for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, all of this can be achieved in the circumstances and the world as it is today, and not opposing it. I mean the necessary regional co-operation, I mean European integrations that represent our clear and solid common definition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1434	Thank you, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica. I ask the representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to take the floor. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope today, we have a determined face-to-face with the painful and accusing truth. I wish we could work from now on, and we never need to meet like this again because something wasn't done or because we didn't want to, dared, could or didn't have political consent. Since 5 October 2000, the government has forgotten Kosovo and Metohija, busy chasing political opponents, non-insects and co-operation with The Hague. Of course, it also began with the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement, which was adopted here in the Serbian Parliament by MPs SPS, JUL and SPO. That's when we were against it. We knew what was going to happen. You have a stenogram from that session. At that time, Vojislav Seselj said, "When the army and police leave, Serbs will leave Kosovo and Metohija. "In the past few months, the south of Serbia sounded as if a single hotspot had been created that would distract us even more. In those few months, you chose Nebojsa Covic as co-ordinator to resolve the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. The first thing he did was call us "the dogs of war." Four days ago, he made an ultimate request that the military and police go to Kosovo and Metohija. Now you can freely ask KFOR and UNMIK why the Serbian military and police shot terrorists in 1998 and 1999. Now I guess it's also clear to those who have used it so far as the opportunity to deal with political inexperiences, because when hundreds of thousands of terrorists go, the army shoots or flees. Our army and police never ran from terrorists from Kosovo and Metohija. KFOR couldn't solve the situation until he started shooting. There are moments in life when you have to shoot. There's a lot of you who don't think about it. You don't think that's ever necessary in life. It's necessary. Kosovo and Metohija need to be shot. I've never heard anyone in the campaign say we're not going to defend Kosovo and Metohija. And whoever comes to power, he says -- we can't defend Kosovo and Metohija. That's what you're saying in the campaign. Because when we were campaigning last year saying that the army and the police were supposed to return to Kosovo and Metohija, which one of you supported us in that? We didn't say - mobilize and move, but we said - where is diplomacy; where is Resolution 1244? It's a straw, but let's hold on to the straw. A thousand soldiers; a thousand would defend the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija on March 17th to 19th. That's what I'm convinced of. In November 2001, here in the Assembly, we tabled a motion for a resolution that Serbs do not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. You were all for Serbs in Kosovo to go to the polls. What did we get? Let's all face it now. What did we get from the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs participated? Kosovo won the president, the Assembly, the Government, to those institutions began to transfer powers, and we received the "Return" parliamentary group, in which the head of the Coordination Centre immediately formed its own party. They're tasked with killing a Serb, not coming to the assembly session the next day. That's what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija got through elections, by sin. They didn't participate in these elections. You faked the election results. They didn't come out at all. What's to be done now? If we reach agreement today - and I don't think that this resolution needs to be done, it needs to be worked out, it needs to be developed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; it is quite clear and for the first time we will have the views of the Scoustin that the Government must immediately develop in a programme that the Assembly will adopt - no more than the Ministers, no more than the Prime Minister, no Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State Community, no Minister of the State, as you call it, must depart from what we adopt here. No one should bring up their idea anymore, but the idea of the National Assembly, the solution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is intimately agreed with it or not. And we, ever since DOS was in power, have voted three times for some kind of declaration and we knew that nothing from them came out, but we voted, not to say someone -- here, radicals are breaking up unity, now that it's needed most. We don't want to break unity when it's necessary. Let's see what it's for and how we can use that unity. No better chance, unfortunately. Because when you hear the data of hundreds of villages, how many cities of the vast are left without Serbs, then it's a sign that we're going to do something now or never again. If we don't do anything now, we'll welcome you, older than you here, to see other cities fall. Then nothing can stop them. Has the fear of The Hague affected some people in these three years? I'm not afraid of The Hague. Tell me what needs to be done, who needs to sign something that needs to be done and answered, and that he knows that The Hague is waiting for him. Because when you think about whether you need Kosovo and Metohija or the Hague is waiting for you, you always think about Kosovo and Metohija. The government should file criminal charges against the most responsible. Dozens of Serbs are in The Hague according to some principle of command responsibility, hierarchical authority. The president of Serbia, at a time when we defended Kosovo and Metohija, military commanders, are looking for police commanders, politicians, Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague for some responsibility. The Council acknowledged that ethnic cleansing was carried out in Kosovo and Metohija from 17th to 19th. The Hague tribunal already places that on the territory of Vojvodina as a war crime. We don't recognize The Hague tribunal. We want to help those who are there. Here, we confess to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, that we have filed criminal charges with him. Who's responsible there? Harry Holkeri, commander of KFOR. Who's in charge of UNMIK? Kosovo Protection Corps commander, president of Kosovo, prime minister of Kosovo. Are you ready to deal with them, but not to let them out of jail after, if anyone does! It's the end. We have not written to the government here, but this is clear from the second point on which the programme will work, Serbia will protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and ensure their stay. Watch what you write. That means if KFOR and UNMIK do not want, Serbia will, Serbia must. It's the only way we'll accept it when you come here with a proposal for a political solution. A political solution as long as possible and to hurry while we have someone to make political solutions in Kosovo and Metohija, because time is running out and time is running out. Don't count on us to be satisfied if you single out northern Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, and you say - this will be the territory in which we will provide protection for Serbs. No, we don't count on it in all of Kosovo and Metohija, we don't count on it in Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't talk about autonomy or cantons, nothing, sit down, write down, explain to us and draw us that solution. Because we want to see every village, every city, and we want to know what's going to happen. If the international community says it won't restore churches, houses, we will, right now. From this poor girl of ours, you'll see how much resources can be allocated for it. If we start saving a little bit, we can rebuild what can be restored. The church of the 15th century is not restored by anyone. The real people now in the villages of the new church, the two architects draw them, they all look like each other. What was once done, no one ever does again. It can't be made up anymore, but to raise them on the ground, there's a new church on the old ground, and yet there's a connection. We offered our help on the 17th night. No one's been looking for her, because nothing's been done. We said we wouldn't get away and we didn't get away. We could have. Maybe someone wanted us to get away that night. Maybe it would be a good way to clear up with the SRS. Maybe you thought we didn't have enough sense. The understanding wasn't for those who lit the mosques. They don't know anything about life, they're not Serbs, they're not Christians, they're Orthodox, and they need to be judged the strictest. It's incomparable hundreds of churches and two mosques, but we'll be left with it forever. Wherever the Serbs are mentioned, they will say, "They are the ones who set the mosque on fire." They will say, "You are the same as where you are in most places, you burn other people's worships." You had to stop that night. To ensure in Serbia a peaceful and safe life, that some fool does not spoil this mood we now have in Serbia. Do your duties, do your regular work, do not forget Kosovo and Metohija, we will not forget to hold a session of the National Assembly today. Many have held ahead of us, and the Vojvodina Assembly, which has estranged from Serbia, has held a session to show how we think. The Duma held a session. Javier Solana made a stricter statement yesterday than any of our politicians in power. No more fear. Whoever runs the country with fear will not save Kosovo and Metohija. I guarantee you that. Don't let anyone who doesn't save Kosovo and Metohija deal with politics in Serbia, don't even live in Serbia. You may not believe in God, especially those who pray to God in front of cameras. I believe in God, and I know that there is a punishment of God. He who does not preserve Kosovo and Metohija will surely be punished by God.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1436	I'm playing Mr. Nikolic. I'm asking the representative of the DSS Group to take the floor. The word has a folk MP, Radoš Ljusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1437	Mr. President, members of the Serbian government, MPs, so many courts have been told about Kosovo and Metohija that it is really hard to find something new and point to a new idea. Since I was born and raised downstairs, do not blame me if I sometimes use an example of my life, since I am not much younger than this Republic. There are those here who are older than our Republic, and there are those who were born in the Kingdom, and we all know well, we don't need history, what's been going on in Kosovo and Metohija since 1912, not to count the medieval period until today. Don't blame me even though I use the term "Siptar" and "Albanian" because both have acquired the right of citizenship in our country because the Republic of Albania is called "The People's Republic of Shipara". Then when Albanian nationalism began, they simply forced us to oust the term of Shiptar without accepting the term of Albanian. As I said, I lived with them I know reliably that they were not ashamed of the terms of Shiptar or the term Albanian, they used both at the same time and in the same meaning, until someone drew attention to them that their nationalism had given priority to one term. We've been making declarations and resolutions. We'll bring another resolution today. These resolutions, if they do not have strong support from the Serbian and Serbian governments, and one designed Serbian policies, as well as the previous ones will remain the most ordinary charters, which may sometimes serve some historians to look back on. In order to achieve this resolution or to achieve at least its parts to the extent possible, we must well design our policy, both internally and externally, and stick to it consistently. Serbia had its own state policy, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia also had it, and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia all the way to Aleksandar Rankovic, and then we have to ask ourselves why this state policy ceased to exist both Kosovo and Metohija were fully left to the will of Shipara and the Yugoslav Communist Supreme Policy. I don't want to talk here and mentioning Alexander Rankovic that I'm rehabilitating him in any way, because we all know what kind of policy he's been leading towards the entire Republic of Serbia. I want to tell you that his position in Serbia towards the Shiptars in Kosovo and on Kosovo and Metohija was perfectly correct. To Aleksandar Rankovic, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija was bearable for both the Cypriots and Serbs. The day Aleksandar Rankovic fell, the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija was drastically changed. The fate of Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija has also been drastically changed. Since then, we have started to lose Kosovo and Metohija, and the Shiparians have started to get it. One of the main reasons is the following: It is allowed, with the knowledge of the state authorities of the SFRY, that the Cypriots from Albania can move to Kosovo and Metohija. I'm a witness to that. In my place when the first Albanian from Albania, my municipality of the East, where the majority of the Serb population was, bought this Albanian the best house and best property in my village. On that same day, he pointed out the flag of the Republic of Albania, placed in the best room a picture of Skenderbeg, opening a window for us living in the village to see both Skenderbeg and the Albanian flag. Don't forget, it was in our country called the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Since then, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija begin. Our country supports the Albanian population moving to Kosovo and Metohija, allows it to get free property, our people move and move to Serbia and we are slowly losing that territory. Don't let us be most mistaken that we have lost Kosovo because of birthrights. We lost him because of the constant villages from these areas. Their idea since then, not since 1999, has been ethnically clean Kosovo. To show it, I will quote one sentence by Ali Šukria, one of their most significant and most important executives, which reads: "There is no problem in Kosovo where there is no Serbs". Since then, this policy has been consistently implemented and has led the situation in Kosovo to this situation in which we are now in place. Since then, their goal has always been the same: ethnically clean Kosovo. Only the naive believed it wasn't. Everyone else knew that it was true, all of us who lived downstairs knew that, we gave signals and directed them to Belgrade to have heavy things happening there, difficult problems, unacceptable to the Serbian state. Both Serbia and Yugoslavia had their own intelligence services and they had that data. But unfortunately, no one in that direction reacted, and that's why this has been happening to us. Now I'm going to give you an example of who I was a witness to. At the end of the 1950s and early 1960s, the Shipsters began to move to Turkey and I remember well when several Shiparian families moved to Turkey from my village. Someone sold the property, some house, and many didn't sell the property or the house; none of their properties and their houses usurped; none of the Serbs threw any stones at any of the Shiptarian houses that had been abandoned. As part of the population that moved to Turkey realized that it could not live there as it lived in Kosovo, they returned to their properties, to their houses, which no one had ever touched. Compare this situation at the end of the 1950s with the situation that took place in Kosovo and Metohija in the 1990s. The world, we all see it, has realized that the five-year idea of multiethnic Kosovo has failed. Multiethnic Kosovo never existed. There are two parallel societies in Kosovo and Metohija and no one has been able to connect these two parallel societies. The only link between the two parallel societies was in one single fact: that some Serbian women married a certain Albanian, but there is no case or very rare that some Albanian woman married a Serb. Each of us lived with his world, they lived with Islamic, we lived with Christian. In their mahales, they studied in their classes; I don't know of any classes where both Serbs and Shiptari sat in the same benches. So, the parallel world existed until this war. An attempt by the international community to change this parallel world and to create from it a multiethnic world over the past five years has failed. We knew it wouldn't work, the ones that dealt with this problem. But, well, the world has accepted that fact and we accept it now, and we need to find that solution. There is a parallel Serbian-Albanian life, the idea of its multiethnic organisation has failed, and we now have to go back to that idea that was presented here when this government was formed, to ensure autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Let me just make one more parallel that will be very clear and very indicative. There was a province of Kosovo in the communist Yugoslavia. As you know, in 1974 she acquired the factical status of the Republic. In that communist Yugoslavia, Shipari, as a national minority, had all the autonomous rights, such rights as no country in the world would give them. Today in Kosovo and Metohija, which is under the rule of the United Nations, the democratic world, democratic Europe, Serbs cannot have any autonomous rights and our idea of cantonisation, as you can see, has come across a certain kind of disrepute. We'll probably have to change some things. These days, it appears in a foreign press that those who seduced the order in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999 and who today realize that the idea of multiethnic Kosovo cannot survive, advocate the idea of an independent Kosovo and, in addition, some newspaper texts show the idea that independent Montenegro is also declared at the same time. Making this resolution our goal, namely the government's goal, must be directed towards the opposite of the idea of Kosovo's independence; the state must address the idea of connecting Kosovo with Serbia, must find ways and opportunities to achieve this idea. If the cantonization is some kind of our goal, maybe through that decentralisation, which may not be complete and sufficiently designed, we can accomplish something. That's why I think this resolution of ours should be the basic act that we're going to stick to. Many times before we were discussed in this assembly about Kosovo and Metohija, but we did not achieve any results. That's why we're here and that's why it may be that this generation of MPs has come to the hottest potato they could ever have. Solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in one way or another, it is certainly not easy at all. That is why we are facing a long and painful path -- to stop the idea of Kosovo's independence and turn that idea towards connecting Kosovo with Serbia. If the Cypriots were able to realise this idea by 2004, why does the Republic of Serbia -- when it is built in every form, and especially the democratic one, when it stands up and when it leads its policy more actively -- would not, as the Cypriots have done for this time, win Kosovo back. So only well-designed Serbia's policy, which will previously restore its dignity as a democratically decorated state, will be able to bring Cosmet back. In the end, I would like to conclude, today, celestial Serbia is enriched by both Serb sanctities, churches and monasteries. But let's leave the celestial Serbia to the Serbian Orthodox Church. The Republic of Serbia, or our country, should return to this world's life and people living in Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, to enable them to return to their hearths, their protection and to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1438	Thank you. I would like a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, to take the floor. The word has been given by MP Boris Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1439	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, I believe that Kosovo and Metohija is a topic that has no fundamental differences between political parties today in Serbia. I therefore believe that Kosovo and Metohija are not the subject on which we will measure our patriotism, strengthen our party positions and gain voter confidence. Kosovo and Metohija are topics related to statehood, history, the origin of this country and this people, and each of us could say something about our origin when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija. But at the same time, this topic today does not require a focus towards the past, at least as much as Kosovo was, in fact, the greatest part of our people's past. We, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, must today be turned to practical solutions and to the future. It is the only way to protect Serbia's national interest in Kosovo and Metohija, that our statehood in Kosovo and Metohija has a future. It is the only way to protect and cultural goods, which have been destroyed in all previous years, rich and centuries, and which are not only cultural, national, religious good of the Serbian people, but all of humanity. It's the only way to protect the home of our citizens, our countrymen, to protect their lives and increase security. I would therefore suggest that, thinking about Kosovo and Metohija, arguing in Serbia's parliament, we do not produce additional reminisces in the time that has passed, blaming each other, as many authorities could be criticised and placed on a pillar of shame when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. What this moment requires is concrete, practical solutions, a realistic plan, which can accomplish everything I mentioned earlier – the protection of our history and the security of the future of our existence in Kosovo and Metohija. We, as a people, as parliament, as political representatives of citizens, representatives of public interest, face the greatest temptation. This temptation is Kosovo and Metohija. This temptation is the fact that we today do not have the instruments of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a practical state. On behalf of the courtesy and integrity of this discussion, I don't want to talk at all about how we came to this factual state. I want to talk about measures, about what we do. This resolution is part of these measures and should show that the Serbian Parliament stood uniquely behind this resolution, that we as representatives of citizens are uniquely behind this resolution. Our unity, which stands in support of this resolution, should be the strength of our international performance and the assurance of the credibility of this state, its political representatives, in an international performance, in an argument to international institutions. The reality is this, I agree with that – the issue of Kosovo and Metohija: the protection of our citizens cannot be provided at this time without co-operation with international institutions. The fact that we're not satisfied with international institutions, that's our problem. We will protest always and demand that they raise their responsibility, their credibility, their realistic approach to the highest possible level and fulfill what is their protection, respecting exactly international acts, above all Resolution 1244 and the Kumanov Military and Technical Agreement. We need to establish an answer to the current crisis. Poor thing about everything that's happened in the past few years isn't gonna help us. We must establish an answer that will affect the problems that exist, not since 17 March, not only since 1999, for which we have not yet received an answer to what happened with 1,200 kidnapped and missing Serbs, not for the years that preceded, because the persecution of the Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija did not begin in 1999 -- the repression of the Serb people, I agree, began much earlier. We have our responsibility too. Don't always let others blame us. This is why I am saying this to find practical solutions, not to calm our own conscience by transferring responsibility to others at the same time, while appointing the process of evicting and evicting Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. That can't happen anymore. This country must continuously develop realistic plans and solutions, operational plans for the return of our population to Kosovo and Metohija. In the days before, during the most severe crisis, we were hired to stop violence, terrorism, ethnic cleansing, exile, pogrom immediately. We could only do that to the country's strong diplomatic actions. It was our most powerful weapon and in the domain of civil and military diplomacy in the previous days. That's where we've done a lot. For the first time, perhaps, in one day, it took us 24 hours to raise our efficiency and to provide instruments for the protection of our inhabitants in Kosovo and Metohija. The responsibility of international institutions is enormous, primarily UNMIK. It is an organisation that has not shown enough readiness, nor a clear will to protect all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, especially those who are today the most vulnerable. International security systems came to Kosovo and Metohija in 1999 with a mission to protect the Albanian people. Today, it is clear that they have a single mission, which is to protect the endangered people, which is the Serbian people and the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. We are close to international recognition that the change of mission is in effect and because of the fact that the international institutions have finally admitted that ethnic cleansing is being done over the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is important, although it is not the first time ethnic cleansing has been done over the Serbian people in the whole crisis in the former Yugoslavia. We must in the coming days master the instruments of international character, diplomatic, foreign-political, military-diplomatic instruments, because this is the only way to protect our population in Kosovo and Metohija. How do we endanger the safety of our population? That's right, I agree, by burning down mosques, we are jeopardizing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Those who do so are not aware that this puts every single life of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija at risk. Yeah, and we're jeopardizing our history, because these mosques have existed beside us for centuries. And I grew up next to this Bajrakli mosque in Belgrade. And that comment is part of our range that we are now getting from parliament, which is, in fact, destroying our defence capacities in Kosovo and Metohija. How are we still destroying opportunities to defend our population in Kosovo and Metohija? By humiliating our country's international credibility with messages of war with the international community, non-partnerial relations with the international community. How else? By threatening. How else do we destroy our countrymen's defense capabilities? By not being able to agree on a clear realistic plan. Perhaps this is the first time, historically, that there is a high level of parliamentary group consent in Serbia to form a clear strategy, a national strategy for Kosovo and Metohija. This may be an opportunity for us to find one unity again in the great tribulation and misfortune, but not only to show our eternal desire to be unique, even if we don't show it, but to provide a realistic, clear, concrete plan to solve the problems we face in that space. In the last few days, our diplomacy has done a huge part of the job. We had meetings with all international institutions -- and in the Security Council, the foreign minister exposed our view of the situation -- talks with the United States High Representatives, Steve Henley, Armitage, Kofi Annan, with the ambassadors of the Contact Group were held, and by the foreign minister and the defence minister of the country, the talks with Mr Scefer and Mr Solana. I've also been having talks with Mr. Shepher, NATO Secretary General. I've been having talks with Dan Fried, director of Europe, National Security Council of the United States. I conducted talks, specifically, along with General Krg, with Admiral Gregory Johnson, NATO's chief commanding South Wing, who is directly responsible for KFOR forces in Kosovo and Metohija and who, based on these demands, came to take over the command system in Kosovo and Metohija. I must say quite openly to our public that Admiral Johnson has just made a final turn in seeing the international community and accepted that his assessment of the first day was wrong and made dramatic changes in KFOR's behaviour in Kosovo and Metohija, followed by a robust defence action. Exactly, it was a military action, which has significantly changed the security of our citizens in the last two days. Is that enough? It's not enough. What do you want to do next? There should be constant pressure on international institutions. The resolution we bring is a statement of our view of this problem. We need a strategy with a plan, division of competences, responsibilities, roles, pressures on international institutions, which must be both legitimate and legal, co-operation with the international community, partnership with the international community, because it is the only way we can truly protect our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. The violence stopped, but the violence that was committed, ethnic cleansing, destruction, was meant to drive our population out of this space. It's still quieting. This situation requires absolute uninterrupted supervision, this situation also requires supervision in southern municipalities of Serbia – Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. The situation in these municipalities is not at all easy. The fact that Albanian extremists and terrorists did not provoke during the day of violence, as far as I'm concerned, speaks only of syncorning, orchestrated and planned performance. Because if there was this synchronised violence, then Albanian extremists would be under greater pressure from the international public. In fact, it was an attempt to use well-planned cic-cack violence, or successive violence that goes into Kosovo, in the southern municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in fact to carry out ethnic cleansing and challenges, to create an atmosphere of so-called. the final solution in Kosovo and Metohija, in the spirit of Hitler's final solution. We stopped the violence for a moment. We need to implement measures together with international representatives in Kosovo and Metohija, so that this state of cease-fire of violence gets permanent characteristics. The second measure, the return of our population -- must be identified by those responsible for rebuilding the houses of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and to ensure the return of our population to that area. It is absolutely unacceptable for new columns of refugees to leave Kosovo and Metohija. Our life, national, strategic and whatever interests you want is for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija to live. Serbia must not encourage eviction from Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia can only encourage and encourage, do everything that our citizens live there and return to those who have gone, but also provide them with normal conditions for living pressure, influence and international institutions that should do so on their own, respecting Resolution 1244 and the Military-Technical Agreement, to provide. It is not just enough to return to the houses in which Serbs lived, which were burned in previous years, to protect our cultural historical heritage. All international institutions should be engaged, implementing provisions of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods in the case of the 1954 armed conflicts. There is an international cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. Above all, these are the monasteries of the Holy Archangel and the Virgin of the Left. These monasteries were the subject of aggression and destruction. We must have allies in the world to protect what is the world's cultural heritage, but at the same time our cultural heritage, but thus we protect our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. The process of reviewing the international community has begun when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and politics towards Kosovo and Metohija. We have many statements from international authorities, institutions, that this process has begun. This process must be encouraged. We must organise and planly provide international institutions with documentation on ethnic cleansing, on the destruction of our cultural monuments. We must do everything, in an organized and planned way, to reverse the media situation, which has been negative for years, especially for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Something has been done, but this job must continue from hour to hour, from minute to minute, otherwise our potentials of protecting our population and our statehood in Kosovo and Metohija will leak. We must today form an institutional strategic solution, which will in a completely new way protect our interests in Kosovo. Today, I don't think it's good for political parties to say what kind of solution it is and compete in their own particular, special political solutions. Today, in my opinion, we need to shut up with the public competition over the final institutional solution and sit down at one table, where we would see which is the most realistic and most efficient solution to protect our citizens and our country with our legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. This solution must also mean territorial, political, and cultural autonomy for our people. Of course, it must also mean decentralisation, it must also imply a suspension of the transfer of competence to the institutions of Kosovo, which have led to the crisis. It must mean a series of operational measures that can only produce extra security principles for our citizens. This solution must include one strategic opinion, which is – Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija must not leave, and this solution must include realistic plans to return to Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote in this House for the resolution before you. The Democratic Party will participate in drawing up a national strategy for Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Party will do everything with its representatives in local and state authorities to protect our national interests, and above all, the lives of every individual man who is at risk in Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Party believes all this is possible only by co-operation with international institutions and believes that nothing should be done to stop the co-operation and prevent it, but the Democratic Party will also criticise international institutions, at the most, when they make dramatic mistakes, do not meet their international obligations. The Democratic Party believes that there must be no fundamental difference in this matter in this House, and we want all political capacities to contribute to a solution without which no Serbian state can exist in a valid way, a solution without whom neither we, who live in Serbia, on this side of the administrative line, will ever have peace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1440	Thank you. I'd like a representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group. There's a word from MP Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1441	Dear Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we should adopt, I would say, another resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Today, however, the situation is somewhat different than it was in previous cases. I certainly won't talk about the past, about what happened and what led to 17 March 2004. What we need to do today is, as state representatives of all citizens of this country, take full responsibility for what happened in Kosovo and Metohija, and more importantly, for what will happen in Kosovo and Metohija in the future. Today we need to specify a clear and unambiguous platform that will oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to bring the same clear, precise and unequivocal political strategy to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and not only to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija as such, but to protect all of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, to ensure their survival, their lives and their future, and thus also ours. Of course, in this process we will work together with the international community. We have done so so far, and so far we have respected absolutely all the obligations we have in front of the international community, as well as all those obligations based on our membership in relevant international organisations, above all on the United Nations. So, of course, that co-operation will continue and of course we will do nothing that could in any way endanger our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. However, on the other hand, we also cannot and must not tolerate the implementation of the international community policy in Kosovo and Metohija which, especially since 17 March, has proved to be wrong and as such that it simply needs to be reviewed and changed. Human rights have been constantly violated by Serbs and other non-Albanian living in Kosovo and Metohija since 1999, especially since international forces came to Kosovo and Metohija. The violation not only does it not stop but culminates, escalating with ethnic cleansing that took place several days ago, a giant Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. We just can't do something like that and we can't tolerate it. We also need to have a clear policy that will show that we are ready for an active approach and thus send an active message to everyone involved in the processes in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we are adopting this resolution today, because we believe that the resolution is the basis for such a solution. The fact that the resolution has reached the unity of the parliamentary groups simply doesn't need for me and must not represent any surprise, and should not be over-exploited and over-joyed. That's a condition. We simply cannot let, all of us, be any disunity regarding Kosovo and Metohija. Not only will we make our position worse in the international community, not only will we endanger but rather the difficult situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but by eradicating ourselves in some way as responsible people and as people who care about their country. The resolution we are proposing, as I said at the beginning, primarily obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia to develop, as urgently as possible, a concrete and political strategy to resolve the issues, because the solution is primarily political and it must be political. What was done in the last few days was the resolution of the consequences that were clearly seen, we all saw them, and the whole world saw them between 17 and 19 March. So what we had to do and what we did was prevent further ethnic cleansing. Especially if we have in mind, and we all know that this ethnic cleansing was neither accidental nor spontaneous, but it was very clear that it was well planned and organized. Now we have to build what's important, fundamentally anything is a strategy. The strategy, despite our wish and our belief that long-term multiethnic Kosovo is possible, must mean the protection of Serbs in Kosovo. This protection can only be achieved with certain territorial political autonomy. It is obvious from everything that at this point, Serbs and Albanians, together, cannot go to Kosovo and that the concept of multiethnic Kosovo, which has been found, or implemented in the previous five years, is an illusion, i.e. it is completely invaluable. This requires institutional guarantees for the security and survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and therefore requires territorial-political autonomy. So we must guarantee survival, security and return. It is our obligation, and we must find the most effective way to achieve that obligation. I don't need to remind you of the facts, all the facts you know very well. You all know very well that 90% of the Serb enclaves in Kosovo, former Serb enclaves, do not exist. There is no Kosovo Morality, there are no more Serbs in it, cities such as Kamenica, Gjilane, Vitina, Novo Brdo, are left without Serbs, just as the Serbs who lived there lost their homes, without their churches and without their sanctity. No churches of the 14th century, no past and no churches yet open, just built, like that church in the village of Ibiza. It's the pogrom of the future, because it's actually what happened. We need to protect these people, to give them a normal life, survival and safety. In doing so, we must take care of ourselves and therefore all our fellow citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why we need to co-operate with the international community and we will continue to work with it, with the United Nations and with the international peacekeeping forces in Kosovo and Metohija, because at this point these forces guarantee the safety of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, although we all agree on this, they did not do their job properly on 17 March. I don't want to get into whether or not they were ready, whether they wanted to or didn't want to be ready. I'm stating the facts, and the fact is that the reaction came later than we expected, and the fact is that there was a element of surprise that couldn't exist. So today's resolution is not only addressed to the Serbian government, which is based on it to develop a political strategy to solve the problem; it is directed to all our citizens. When I tell our citizens of course I think of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, because Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia. Today, we are also talking to the international community, precisely because we want to and we have a very clear intention of fully working with it to implement solutions for Kosovo and Metohija. We must appeal to them and must protect what is part of our territory, of course, on all international principles and respecting all principles of international law, respecting the principle of non-violence of borders and principles relating to guarantee and security of security, because it is the right to life, the right to freedom of movement and the right to property, which is fundamental human rights. In the overall process, G17 plus will participate actively. Since 17 March, G17 Plus has been actively involved in the resolution of the consequences of what happened, i.e. ethnic cleansing that took place in Kosovo and Metohija from 17 March to 19 March. My colleague Miroslav Zivkovic, our MP, was in the delegation of the Committee on Defence and Security and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, who visited Kosovo and saw what happened there. So we know what's going on, we're perfectly clear that we simply need to react urgently and quickly. It doesn't apply, ladies and gentlemen, just to the G17 plus, and in that sense, I don't think I'm taking that kind of message from this place. I'm just trying to avoid it. The resolution and the strategy, which will follow it, does not only oblige the G17 plus, does not only oblige every representative of every political party in this assembly; it binds the entire public, the entire political and Serbian public, obliging every representative of Serbia, wherever he is, and whoever he talks to. I don't care who's going to be in a specific case and who our representatives are talking to. I am convinced that all our state authorities, all our institutions, will take full responsibility when it comes to solving problems and protecting our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. I am convinced of that, because every representative of Serbia when speaking on her behalf is aware of what it means, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. That's what's most important when it comes to this resolution. The unity that we are talking about is most important in this regard and precisely from this point of view, because this resolution is the starting point for everything we will do in the next period, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. It is actually the basis for the future of all of us, especially our citizens, right in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is it that will provide them with a peaceful and stable future. I'm totally convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1442	Thank you. I ask the representative of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group to take the floor. There's a word from MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1443	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very difficult moment. The difficult situation lasts too long and requires our rights. The determined solutions and the different are taking us into this room. I repeat, we're being taken differently in this room. What is going on in Kosovo, ladies and gentlemen? There's been a tragedy down there for a nation, a persecution, a killing, and it's been going on for decades. The consequences are terrible: tens of thousands of refugees, burning objects, many sacrifices, destroyed sanctity. The Albanian's intention is clear. She's never even been controversial. They want ethnically clean Kosovo, so they don't choose funds and there's classical terrorism and persecution on the scene. How does the international community behave? How's he doing his job? She has an amazing attitude towards Kosovo. The question is, why? There's no answer to that question, at least not yet. How much are we even here to blame for this situation? And that, ladies and gentlemen, we must ask ourselves as often as possible. What happens if this condition continues and continues? We will have new victims, all monuments, all monasteries will be destroyed, and thus witnesses to our culture, our statehood, our history. There will be no Serbs in the cradle of all Serbs. That'll be the consequences. If that happens, the question will rightly be asked - what kind of state are we and who are we as a people? Then what do we have to do? This resolution is, of course, the basis of this resolution, but we need to be more aggressive, at all levels, to prove to the international community what is true and what are our rights. We must finally understand that we should all put ourselves in the position of defending the highest national interest, and parliament, and government and all institutions in Serbia. We must finally realize that we have been divided into different species, with the influence of others in such moments, difficult words, some we have heard today, unnecessarily, and who knows what else has led us to have a situation like this in Kosovo today. If we finally figure that out, and it's really about the end of time, then we need to agree on the most important things about this issue and we need to stick to it in detail. Because of all this, we finally need to agree on this: that it is almost an oath and that it is always in everyone's mind and in our subconscious. Let's just say, there's no division, we're unique when it comes to this, absolutely unique, all parties, all of us. All of its strengths, its potential, will be directed by all parties towards strengthening Serbia's institutions, thereby indirectly defending Kosovo. By all means, we will protect our people and do everything we can to return our people to the hearth. The defence of Kosovo will be a commitment forever and ever, no matter how long it lasts. The defence of Kosovo also means Serbia's defence. This will be now and always, while Serbs and Serbs are. That must be the conclusion and everyone must hear it, both Albanians and the world. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, let's be unique, let's all act as a defense of the highest national interest, always, at every opportunity and place. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1444	Thank you. I ask the representative of the SPS parliamentary group to take the floor. Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1445	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, is our common tragedy, and I think that for a long time, and years, we have spent discussing this issue, burdened with party and ideological disagreements, accusing each other of something that is a constant policy in this area, not just a few years or a few decades; unfortunately, it has been several centuries. The constant is a constant, unique and persistent desire for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to create an independent Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, these unfortunate events, the tragic events that have taken place over the past few days, are the continuation of ethnic cleansing policy in Kosovo and Metohija. The policy aims at an independent Kosovo and Metohija. The policy, which is achieved through terrorism, through ethnic cleansing, is that there are no Serbs left in Cosmet. And therefore, if they had achieved this from 17 March to 19 March, there would have been the end of each of our further discussions on Kosovo and Metohija. So today I think that as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia here in Belgrade we should give recognition and gratitude to all Serbs who, despite this terrorism and ethnic cleansing, remain to live in Kosovo and Metohija, are aware that this can be dangerous for their lives. Also, I think today should pay tribute to and recognition to those who have given their lives to defend their people and their country, not only in the past few weeks, but also in all these struggles for the freedom of the Serbian people and for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I have to take this opportunity to say that indeed, perhaps after a certain period of silence about it, it is necessary to give thanks today to those who defended Kosovo and Metohija and when we were exposed to the bombing. They defended their country and their people. I would not say it again, but many of the attitudes put forward these days, because of these views, Serbia was bombed in 1999. I think these events, unfortunately, have been a sobering for many. Unfortunately, what has happened over the past few weeks is a sobering, if it can be called so, and if the process is even possible, a political sobering for those who have spoken for years, burdened with the burdens of relations with previous or pre-employed authorities, so to speak, that the problem in Kosovo and Metohija is a problem in the lack of human rights of Albanians. I would remind them that even during the SFRY 20 billion dollars, it was invested in Kosovo and Metohija, that our Republic proposed to them the highest degree of autonomy that exists in the world, that an international presence would be accepted if the political agreement on Kosovo and Metohija were signed. The only thing that was controversial was the referendum, the right for Kosovo and Metohija to have a referendum after three years. If it had been accepted in Rambouille, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it would have happened in 2002. Today there would be no Serbs in Cosmet, today Kosovo would be an independent state, because that outcome of the referendum, I think it's clear to everyone here, is known what it would be like. Also, I think that today's resolution and today's debate have a little different tones than they have in the past few years in the Serbian Parliament, in the Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. After a long period of silence, we began to talk again about the phenomenon of Kosovo and Metohija as a problem of terrorism, and I would remind myself that in the first declarations after October 5th we somehow hesitated to say that it was terrorism. We said it was even controversial to say so, and we came up with information that it was extremism. Also, it is clear today that there is both Kosovo and Metohija and terrorism and ethnic cleansing. It's clear that Mrs. Ranta herself, who was a pathologist in the Rack case. She herself admitted that the Racak case was fabricated. I would remind you, the Markales were fabricated to bomb Serbs in the Republic of Strpska. Racak was fabricated to bomb Kosovo and Metohija, or the Republic of Serbia. Then, I think the very wrong move was also the amnesty of Albanian terrorists and separatists, many of whom were released from Serbian prisons later killed Serbian children and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in general. All of this is a consequence, as it says in Resolution, and it transfers jurisdiction to temporary institutions, so-called. temporary institutions of self-government, or Kosovo. In a previous resolution or declaration adopted by the Serbian parliament, it is considered a positive one. The Parliament's past meeting positively assessed that Serbia has encouraged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to participate in provisional institutions. I would also correct Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I hope that he did not mean it, not only the Serbian Radical Party was against holding elections and participating in elections in Kosovo and Metohija, but also the SPS, as is generally known, because participation in the provisional authorities of Serbs have in some way given an alibi for what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, the story of multiethnic Cosmet had a complete breakdown. To make the irony bigger, a few days before, March 15, two days before 17th, when the incidents in Kosovo and Metohija broke out, a session of the political committee of the Council of Europe was held in Paris, where Mr Alexander Borgolivia of UNMIK said "that Kosovo is on the line with European standards". Two days before that, even the Standardipre status document was brought by the Security Council. What are the standards that are currently in force in Kosovo. There is no Cosmet multiethnic Cosmet, not because Albanians do not want to live in peace with Serbs. The solution to the Kosovo problem for Albanians is that there are no Serbs left in Cosmet. These events are due directly to the non-implementation of Resolution 1244. That resolution, I'll remind you, has a binding character. It was brought on the basis of the United Nations Charter of Chapter VII. She had a binding character. She was the result, she was not the victory, she was the result and the result of the bombing of our country and our people. Those who insisted that the resolution be passed do not respect that resolution. I would remind you that the resolution reads: "Peace and security for all citizens, disarmament of terrorists, return of refugees and displaced persons, return of Yugoslav personnel to the military and police for certain purposes and essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija." Of the 280,000 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, only 2% returned to the province. There are about 215,000 Albanians left to live in Kosovo, out of which 150,000 Serbs. Since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, 7,000 terrorist attacks in Kosovo have killed more than 1,200 Serbs, injured and injured more than 1,400 people, kidnapped 1,200 Serbs, destroyed or damaged more than 150 churches and monasteries. Kosovo is ruled by al-Qaeda terrorist gangs and Mujahedini, but should not go that far. The KLA and Albanian national armies are members of the official Kosovo structures, the Kosovo Protection Corps, the Kosovo Police Station, the Government's Office and the Kosovo Assembly and the Methya and of course political parties. Also, no Alabama has been prosecuted as far as The Hague tribunal is concerned. In The Hague are Serbs who defended Kosovo and Metohija. Those who have implemented an ethnic cleansing policy, of course, not only are they still at large, but they are released when arrests are made anywhere in Europe on the basis of Interpol's warrant, and the previous Serbian government has participated in this, sending messages that these are warrants from the former regime, by the former regime, which are not now in force in the new regime. These were acts of terrorism, against those people who killed not only Serbs, but also Albanians who were loyal citizens of the Serbian state. Furthermore, if we talk about The Hague, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, to be precise, and extradition to The Hague tribunal and on the line of command responsibility, above all, can leave great consequences for those who will sometimes be willing to participate in the defence of the country. Who will take the risk of defending his country today if he can be extradited to The Hague tomorrow. It is well known to you that those who participated in the defence of the country are now under the so-called. It's a big question for both our government and our entire country, but also for our entire nation and our nation, where the line of command is at its end. Today between Serbia and Cosmet, although Cosmet remains a formal part of Serbia and even under Security Council Resolution, there is customs and there is no customs duty between Cosmet and Albania. Today, Serbian citizens living in Kosovo, when they cross Serbia, are sometimes also citizens of the second order. Then, there is no unique information space. Is it possible that RTS has footage of US troops entering Baghdad, Afghanistan and everything else and sends correspondents who will report it without considering Kosovo and Metohija a unique information space. Those who followed the media know that on the first day there was no picture, no recording of any burning Serbian object, no burning Serbian house, no Serbian church; the only video that left the Serbian media that night was a recording of a burning mosque. Do we consider Kosovo and Metohija part of a unique information space? If our media can't be on Cosmet, where did we have to ask Serbs to stay on Cosmet? Is it safer to be a journalist in Iraq, Baghdad than in Cosmet? Unfortunately, for Serbs, it seems safer in Baghdad. But what a relationship it is with Serbs who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. Economic aid, where Serbs live, if we don't help them economically and develop those parts, people won't stay there to live. I'd like to ask one question to the security structures. It has been made clear by KFOR, and by our people who are in charge of the security and defence issue that this has been a prepared action. Do we have an answer whether any of our security services had information about whether NATO had information about whether this action was pre-prepared, and if it had information, why didn't he forward it to our security services? All reportedly were surprised by what happened in Kosovo and Metohija, and the next day it is said that the action has long been prepared. Kosovo is obviously slowly slipping towards independence. The European Union's commission raised the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's participation in the stabilisation and association process through a special mechanism independent of Serbia-Montenegro. Also, at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union on 23 February this year, a European partnership for Kosovo was announced. Therefore, I think it is quite clear that the international, civilian and military missions in Kosovo and Metohija do not want to implement Resolution 1244. What are we supposed to do? We need a clear attitude, a clear and precise attitude of this congregation. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It must be stopped trying to resolve before the final solution, to be precise, the policy of the final act must be stopped. If there are no Serbs in Cosmet, we should no longer hold any talks on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I think our country must be looking for Holkeri's shift from its place. He said this doesn't look like ethnic cleansing, that several churches of everything were destroyed, he was directly responsible for why Resolution 1244 was not implemented. There is no question here whether the resolution is good or not, but as it is, it must guarantee the safety of Serbs. Who's responsible for that? A military and civilian mission of the United Nations. That's why you need to look for Holkeri's responsibility. Finally, Serbs must be guaranteed survival and security. Serbia has fulfilled all its points in Resolution 1244. If it's going to do the United Nations, that's the question, that's the basic question. If not, if I can't do it, will Serbia do it? In our opinion, Serbia must do so, not to cause new wars and conflicts, but to fulfill what is written in the resolution, which was otherwise imposed by the international community of Serbia. The proposal for a political solution must be made by consensus, and by all political parties, above all, the parties involved here in parliament. The diplomatic struggle implies that Cosmet is part of the state and national interest, only when we achieve shifts in diplomatic struggles, when it becomes clear in circles which unfortunately decide in the international community that Cosmet is about ethnic cleansing, then it can only be discussed about the final status of Cosmeta and some new resolution. That's why it needs to be sharp, but not too fast, because we have no guarantee that the new resolution and the new solution will not be worse than the existing one. This is not the issue, it is the desire to revise Resolution 1244, such as in the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the part of the desire to revise the Dayton Agreement. The SPS will vote for this motion for a resolution. We feel that it is necessary, regardless of what we think the session of the Assembly is too late, we will vote, I don't think we should call on political parties at all to overcome their party interests on this subject. I think about this topic everyone's party interest is the same. It's a good thing we're unique, because without patricium, there's no party, no country, none of the political parties, but it doesn't end up all in resolutions and declarations, and it's clear to everyone. If Serbia is strong and stable, if Serbia is unique, then it will be better for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's do everything together for the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-26-0.u1446	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, as I initially informed of the reasons for calling for the session within a short period of time and another day from the day on which the session is held under Article 81(1), I am taking this opportunity to inform you, according to Article 84. Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure on the way the session is conducted, on the agreement of all parliamentary groups, and I particularly thank those who have been damaged and who have had solidarity. It is agreed that only representatives of parliamentary groups speak at this session and that no other search rights are used. In contrast, I would like to thank the National Assembly, which held a debate on the single agenda of this session, on the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure and I hereby appoint 26 March 2004 as the day for the vote. The vote will take place immediately at 12.29 hours. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. For 220, one of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand all of you who have been discussing this document have had the need to react emotionally, but beyond that, what is more important is that by this document, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has obliged its government to urgently prepare a political solution to which it will add new institutional guarantees. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, and according to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
