ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency and the Honorable Ministers, we have before us a set of laws in the field of environmental protection. The DSS MPs will vote for this bill and support it. The reasons for that are numerous. So far, if we look at the legal norm, it would be logical to adopt these laws and to regulate this area as appropriate for all regulated European countries or countries that are state-of-the-art and who want to rule law in one country. We all know here that this area has been arranged with over 100 legal norms that could be good but, in general, they could not be implemented in practice. The positive side of the adoption of four separate laws in the field of environmental protection is that the members of the law will not intertwine, exclude each other and come into any contradiction. The passing of only one law in this area would be very difficult, first of all on the technical side, to make one hornet law, and at the same time, it would be very difficult in practice to be applicable. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are aware of one fact, which we must all be aware here, and the whole Serbian nation and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these laws are of national interest. Why do I think and why do I claim, and I stand behind it, as is the DSS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? These laws will make the right way where Serbia should go, both economically and economically. That's why these laws have a national interest. That's what I'm going to explain, not just to be an empty phrase and to declare something of national interest and say, these laws will make way for our further development, economic, ecological and whatever else, or the way to Europe. Without these laws, we cannot go to Europe or make economic progress. As we are a country in transition, the proposed laws on environmental protection ensure that we cannot develop dirty technology in our country, and thus we will prevent us from being a black ecological hole in Europe and the world and preserve our natural resources. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is most important, we will preserve both the ecological environment and the health of our population, and especially our descendants, and at the same time we will make economic progress. In order to know how important these laws are, we must be all aware, not only of the MPs but also of our entire nation, that through external influence, radiation, water pollution, air, country-threatening substances can, and very often of the aberration of chromosomes, genetic mutations in humans, which, unfortunately, was a feature of the 20th century, precisely because of the external influence and rapid industrialization, and not only of environmental protection, but only of profit. That will be paid by increasing the number of malignancies, and you all know it well. That's why the countries of the European Union, not for nothing, have raised these laws to national level. As a doctor, I must also say to warn that you and our citizens of Serbia, the unprofessional public (because the professional public knows this) that once a mutated gene remains mutated and can be transmitted from generation to generation and produce a disease, unfortunately, a severe disease that is incurable. Gentlemen Members of the People, if we remove any waste material tomorrow, we have removed waste material and harmful matter from nature, but we are not from the human organism and they will be passed on to generations and we will have a sick nation. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must be aware of these facts. Once the genetic structure of man has been disrupted, and no cure can be treated, no matter how much money we give there. That's why it's so important for the whole nation that this law when we pass it consistently. The legislator saw that this is the basic reason why this law should be passed, and therefore, in article 6, he provided for raising the conscience of the entire nation from preschool, through school education systems, in colleges, and at the same time through the information system, through culture, through the health system. Otherwise, if there wasn't a member, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law wouldn't have such an importance, and even I would be against it if it were passed. Like this, this member is enough that there's a reason for all of us to vote on him. Only if the nation is aware of the facts of the conservation of the environment will these laws have full effect and will we be able to implement Article 6. In the second chapter — Protecting natural values, Articles 21 - 32 stipulate that natural resources must be stored, how they should be treated and measures taken to avoid pollution and destruction. Here I would especially single out the protection of land and water, where we must be aware that these are our greatest resources, both from the ecological and from the economic aspect. If we have unpolluted land, water, our chance is to produce healthy organic food that we can export. Gentlemen, when we went on the campaign, let's remember all of us, when we talked about agriculture, our chance was to produce food and that organic food. Here's a chance to prove and to vote for this law, because this law can only ensure healthy production of healthy and ecological food, everything else is farce, story and lie. We know in the elections to say that water is our strategic raw material in the 21st century. We know that all the countries of the world know and are jealous of what they have, and the country of Serbia is rich in healthy water and that is why we must preserve it. First of all, I come from the Užičko region where the largest ecological reserves are healthy water, and therefore this law, especially I must stress because of Užičana, must be implemented to the end and do not allow dirty technology to enter the Užička region. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Užička region, in Koserić, we sold cement and no one has anything against foreign capital but we have against environmental pollution. What the German has the right to a healthy environment, to enforce the law. If it were this law we wouldn't have in the field today by the cement factory near Skrapež, we have over 10,000 oil cokes. The government tried to ban production, i.e. to build new oil-cox processing facilities. They did so without question, although the Republic Inspector banned it from construction. The government worked, but she didn't have this law to implement and punish. If we didn't have this law, they wouldn't be able to appeal to the International Court of Paris. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone will say these laws slow down the Serbian economy. No, I don't. These laws are accurate and exactly to the end they've aligned between environmental and economic. How did they get along? By making legal standards, both in Europe and in the world, and that is how I have already told you that they will protect our most important natural resources, water, air, land and we will be able to produce food for export. On the contrary, if we're talking about industry, they'll be protecting the industry anyway, the one that's not dirty technology. What would we do if we took the dirty technology, hired the population and temporarily raised the population standard. We know that dirty technology employs more, but the reverse would soon come back to us as a boomerang, a sick people, and that's what we would pay for, and we would quickly give that money to treat sick people, and if we could cure them, it would be good. We'd just roll downhill, not forward. That's why one dinar invested in ecology is invested in the health of the people and five times more returns, maybe ten. Remember, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Serbian people, that a single dinar invested in prevention, in human health, returns ten and more times, and this invested dinar in the treatment of severe diseases does not give effect, and this dinar gives effect. That's why we have to listen to the DSS and this government say it together. I will finally tell you once again that this DSS government in its energy balance does not foresee the construction of nukes, but we need to know one more thing, that's what our Minister Naumov has said several times, but we need to remember what Cori Udovici said that the energy balance will speed up what will import tires and put in thermal power plants. What does that mean? It is a direct attack on the health of the Serbian people. You have nothing to learn, but remember and vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9786	The People's Messenger Branislav Stevanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9787	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ozone damage, the alarming situation in the atmosphere and climate disorder have led many world experts to start dealing seriously with these problems, so that many countries in the world have already moved far away in solving these environmental problems and environmental protection. By passing these four laws, we are taking the first serious step in further solving our environmental problems, i.e. to protect the environment. The environment in which I live, the Lazarec municipality, is an industrial city with a high pollution coefficient and here we have a big problem, especially when it comes to exhaust gases, air pollution, and it's about Big Blacks and Hots. Mr. Minister, I noticed you've been following this very closely, so I'd like to ask you to record some things regarding the Lazarus. Soon you will have a visit to the Association of Citizens, i.e. It's an environmental society from Lazarets. They've been trying to make contact with the government for a long time, and no one's heard their problems. In addition to that pollution, I would like to give an example of Tent B in Obrenovac at the mouth. Their exhaust filters that they place on chimneys are perfectly functioning, so this is one example of how to safely handle exhaust gases, which is not a practice in many factories in Serbia, which means that it is not only a poor society in which we are located, but it is a factor in a man who unwittingly and irresponsibly handles these large complexes of factories. I'd like to say something about water risk, especially drinking water. We know that in rural areas where surface wells are used, using various herbicides, fertilisers pollute land and, by pouring water into wells, cause major problems, so that people in smaller environments drink polluted water and put themselves at great health risk in this way. I'd like to say about "Colabar," it takes as much oxygen as possible in the atmosphere, because there's been large amounts of carbon dioxide, and in this way there's a disturbance of the climate, there's a need for reforestation, which we talked about in the first part of the agenda. I'm going to set an example of the Colubare surface spears where we have about 200 acres of land where the badgers passed and left the waste behind, and there were formerly some privates who were tasked with reculting that land. They have parked their old machines and taken huge money from the electricity industry, so now we have over 200 hectares of unregulatory land, which would make a huge contribution to further reforestation of the terrain and the area. Also, I'd like to say about the noise, we were talking about the preservation of the forest. There is a very worrying non-planning of the forest, and there should be a special accent on the preservation of forests and unorganised logging. When it comes to dangerous matter, I would like to say that this area is legally very well regulated, according to the world standards of ADR, where this law is really well done, except that we have a certain problem that we are still a poor society and as far as handling and transporting these dangerous substances can't all of these requirements in all segments be answered, but most importantly, I think that for now it works. One of the biggest problems in our country is radiation. The bombing of Serbia has been mentioned several times in 1999, with the help and support of the DS. I'd like to give another terrible example that I personally saw in Bratunac, a town near Love, next to Drina. I was in 1994 in that cemetery where my mother was buried and after six months I went to that same cemetery and I had a terrible experience when I saw over 500 new graves. At that moment, I thought those refugees had transferred some of their dead. But in fact, in half a year, over 500 people died right around Sarajevo, due to the effects of radiation. How and how to regulate it? Will someone ever answer for that and punish those people with what law? As far as monitoring and intensive radiation control and environmental pollution are concerned, it is one of the good proposals in this law and of course it should be supported. However, I do not consider it appropriate only to inform, once every two years, that this Parliament informs the public once every two years about the amount of pollution in the environment. I think it'd be best if it were once a year, reporting to the public. Also, I would like to say how best we can implement all these measures, which is to strengthen the awareness of the people themselves, education and education of both younger generations and older and rigorous implementation of these laws, which are quite decent, is a good proposal, and more active participation of the local structures themselves in all of this. I would like, in the end, to ask how Serbia can be protected from radiation and from DS, too, it is like an environmental problem and a gentleman who has three moles and two downfalls, and not a politician.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9788	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the attitude towards the environment is a bit like the attitude towards health. As we appreciate health only when we lose it, so does the environment when it degrades. That is why, it is a short term of need and it is high time for Serbia to take a necessary step forward in the field of environmental protection, compared to the current situation, and especially in relation to practice. The set of laws that the government came up with in front of the Serbian Parliament is the first but major step forward. The Socialists will support the proposals of all four laws, of course and the solutions proposed in them in general, and details will be given when the debate on amendments comes on the agenda. However, I will point out only some of the questions listed in the law, without intending to make perhaps the right choice. I want to stay for three questions. First, the bill sets out the obligations of users of natural resources, i.e. good, to plan and implement measures to prevent environmental threats during the course of work and to carry out activities, as well as at the end of them. Whoever degrades the environment, is obliged to re-cultivate or otherwise re-salibrate the demoted environment. So the principle – the user pays. Also, I want to stay for one more time, and that's the responsibility of polluting the environment. Obligations of legal and natural persons and liability for pollution are prescribed. The pollutant that causes environmental pollution is responsible for the damage caused, according to the principle of objective responsibility. Environmental pollution is also responsible for a legal and physical person who has been illegal, but also has been able or allowed to pollute the environment. The polluter is required to compensate for the cost of endangerment and risks to the environment and the cost of removing environmental damage and space. Very briefly, given the environmental situation, I would like to point out in particular how environmental hazards are being reported. As in Articles 76 and 77. The law envisioned that once every two years the government submits to the National Assembly a report on the state of the environment, I propose, given the state of our environment, that we do not wait two years to get a state of environmental hazard in Serbia. I will illustrate it only with a few examples, when it comes to Belgrade, which is very ecologically threatened, and I will illustrate it in the examples of a part of Belgrade, or its municipalities. When it comes to air pollution in the municipalities of Lazarec and Obrenovac and, above all, the thermal energy complex "Nikola Tesla" in Obrenovac and Veliki Crljene, the area of the Lazarec municipality and, in part, Ub and Lajkovac possess significant energy potentials based on which large surface carbon exploitation spears and a strong thermal energy system were developed, TE "Nikola Tesla" A, B and GreatCrna. They have become a significant factor in environmental degradation. Large amounts of gas, ash, dust, and wastewater that pollute air, land, underground and surface water are excreted daily. By burning coal in TE in Obrenovac and the Great Blacks, huge amounts of ash are created that partly goes out through the chimney, while the remaining amounts are delayed to dumps. Deposies are not treated properly so that in an unfavourable direction wind is always in the area for an unfavourable direction of wind, the whole area is filled with large amounts of ash that contain heavy metals. The entire settlements were threatened: Obrenovac municipality, Grabovac, Dren, Skela, Lazarec municipality, Velika Crljena, Stepojevac, Leskovac, Sokolovo, Junkovac, Vreoci and others. When that happens, there's a lot of ash and slag houses. Gardens, the fields are all poisoned. I'll illustrate it with one example. In combustion, only at Termoelectrica A and B, and I think the minister knows better than I do, but when I burn 90,000 tons of coal a day, 219 tons of various particles come out through the chimney, and 17,000 tons of ash and slags are delayed to dumps that, by the way, are huge - 400 and 600 hectares, and not less tape, etc. The second example of the Hot Ones, with the problem of the feces, was created after the coal processing that is on fire, and there is no telling what is worse – whether the void or the gases are on fire. Then, fecal water, coal dust, waste water, and this area was otherwise declared the black spot of ecologicality in Serbia. It's not all and it's not just that. An example from the municipality's jurisdiction, again in the area, again in Obrenovac, almost in the city's dump site, a serious dump of garbage on which 39,000 to 40,000 cc's of waste and waste that has become, instead of the once-known stop of the village birds, the nest of rodents and an ecological bomb, not only for Obrenovac but also Belgrade. They say the municipality got $10 million for it, spent 32 million and didn't do anything. You should check that out. Otherwise, I do not believe that the current assembly of the municipality, or the government that operates in Obrenovac, will be able to do something, because it was built on the principle of crisis headquarters in 2000. If all of this is added to the lack of suburban water in the municipalities, and there are seven of them, I'm not talking about sewers. She is not even in the centre of Belgrade, so this is Dedinje, which is so famous, where not only Karic lives with his empire, but also the people of the natives, has no sewers. The centre of Belgrade within 500 metres of the centre of Green Hill has no sewers. If we keep in mind that Sava has become a natural sewerage in which since Zorke Shabac is evicting acid, wastes various, the first spark thermopower plant Barich, all by system, will take it somewhere else along the Sava River. When all of this comes to mind, and I have listed only some examples, the degree of environmental and health hazards and human rights in those areas in a healthy environment and healthy life can be seen. It's a huge part of Belgrade. Belgrade is not just a centre and Belgrade is not just a central street that repairs itself five times, nor underground garages, nor unnecessary loops, Belgrade is also what is threatened. I did not cite similar examples for the municipalities of Surcin, Zemun, Palilula, Chukarica, Grocka, so I did not mention the transport of dangerous substances and somehow always happens in downtown Belgrade to make them an incident, etc. These people in these areas, as well as all others, rightly require the state to protect them from the principles envisaged, a particularly polluter of salaries, and the state to enable this law to be implemented to the end. I find the adoption of this set of laws to be the first but important step. I expect and demand new steps, quick and determined, for the law to be strictly implemented, so that the planned period of compliance with this law is not spent so that no measures are taken during this period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9790	Replic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Ivan Zivadinović, from the post: As an authorised representative. ) According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9792	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, the previous speakers made the same mistake, I assume they have not yet received a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They mentioned article 67, where the government is originally scheduled once every two years to report to the National Assembly on the state of the environment in the Republic. According to the report we received from the government of the Republic of Serbia on 2 December, the amendment was adopted, so that the government will submit once a year a report to the National Assembly on the state of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9793	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and let the MP Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9794	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which adopted this proposal in October of this year and made it four laws. The first three came out as a proposal for a regulation by the previous government, meaning, as sublegal acts, that's the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment, they were prepared, once again to remind, by the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment and was done within the framework of the work and legislation project in the area of environmental protection. The project started in 2002, and according to the information I have, it will last until 2005 and is in line with the European Union. The bill was significantly rewritten by the text of the bill, which the previous government established, I say, in 2002 and which was fully in line with EU rules, was prepared in a public debate, it received agreement and a positive assessment by the European Commission and the World Bank. The draft law of the previous government represented a major shift and a real approach to EU rules, however, a proposal that now contains significant shortcomings ahead of us, which led the DS to table a large number of amendments. First of all, why do we think he's a distance from some European standards? Therefore, in the work concerning the removal of the chapters of the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources for which the EU brings and prepares a strategy. This proposal has been limited to a small step of protection. The proposal is not entirely to improve the environment. Given that the environmental protection sector is the most important chapter of our approach to the EU, we wanted, above all, to make an effort to bring this bill closer to the EU rules, to point out the unrealisticity of the deadlines that exist, above all, in the work of adapting to our industry and to some members, to define more precisely or formulate certain provisions of meaning, terminology, etc. With some amendments, we stressed that the term – environmental protection, corresponds to the level of environmental management and does not take into account either recovery and improvement of the environment, as well as the system of environmental protection within the framework of the concept of sustainable development. The term – protection is certainly an exceeded term and is defined for one concept of environmental management and it is behind us. Also, in one set of amendments, we propose the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources and thus regulate the conditions under which other laws are based. Regulation of the conditions of sustainable resource use is one important segment of separation from whoever uses the resources, who exploits them, that determines how they will act. We wanted first of all to point out that it is an unwarranted rejection of these provisions and that the area needs to be regulated in a way that gives this law a framework for determining the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, in order to leave for some generations to come after us. It is a very important fact that Serbia's citizens now have an environmental issue of certainly one of the most important issues, but it should also be noted that the ecological practice of our citizens is not very great. All around us, almost every step of the way, there are a number of small dumps that no one has brought us and what our product is, our work. We can't have high environmental awareness on one side, and on the other hand, low behavior, and that's something we have to work on together. The first and basic condition to change something in practice is a set of laws we are discussing today. By not accepting the amendments submitted by the DS, the law will remain inconclusive. We must look at this through the prism that, in the process of approaching the EU, about 500 regulations are only needed in the area of environmental protection. So it seems illogical that this job that can be done now, left to do so by some next government, some next assembly, because the fact that this law must go to work, or to supplement, especially in the work, I say that it is incomprehensible, if we bear in mind that Serbia with laws in the field of environmental protection is at a level, undermining – at a level of the 1970s. So we have to work terribly fast, a terrible lot to do, and I don't think we have time for this kind of experiment that the government has suggested, and we don't have a resolution ministry. The Democratic Party wants its amendments to establish a clear approach of the state towards natural resources, for the final state to establish natural resources and the environment as capital, as an economic category. The Democratic Party primarily wants Serbia to have a clear direction in this area. We are very pleased by the fact that I am undermining once more the fact that this law is making a major step forward, and we are so disappointed by the ministry and government's stubborn behaviour that Serbia should not accept the only possible direction in this area, in the area of the environmental protection system. The Democratic Party will declare on a set of these laws by monitoring how the ministry will decide on our amendments and on this basis we will take our final position on voting or non-voting for this law and make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9795	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević, and let the MP Vitomir Plužarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9796	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a set of environmental laws. Members of the G17 plus will vote for these laws. We are especially pleased to see awareness in our midst of the necessity of environmental protection. I'll talk about the bill on environmental impact assessment. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law regulates and provides systematic protection and promotion of the environment. The reasons and objectives of this law are clear. First of all, the normative arrangement of the environmental system, the harmonisation of development with the conditions and possibilities of the environment, the assessment of environmental impact that is reflected in the identification, assessment and publication of the impact of a project or possibly some activity on the environment. This law also determines ways and measures, prevention measures, minimisation, mitigation and remediation of possible consequences, i.e. adverse environmental impacts and human health. Another reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with international legislation and the institutional organisation that will be achieved by this law. First of all, it is necessary to remove inherited pollution, prevent and control new pollution. The problem we have now is uncontrolled economic and economic development and the introduction of new technologies is necessary. Certainly, it means throwing out the dirty technologies that have been present so far. Control of activities planned in the space or control of the building itself. It's very important because, you'll admit, if we build a facility where there will be some technology that threatens the environment, there will be problems in our country, and there will be problems in the environment if it is near our border. The European Union aims to level the criteria with the requirements for preserving and raising the quality of life. The best policy of environmental protection is to prevent the creation of pollution or the consequences of the environment at the source itself, i.e. before building objects or taking action in the environment. The Directives certainly provide for the harmonisation of national access to achieve a common and identical objective, which is a satisfactory level of production activities and the desired level of environmental protection. I have no doubt that the previous government had saved the text of this law, it's only a pity that these good things were not dealt with but did some other things. We have talked about them many times, and there is no reason for us to turn the subject and discuss it now. Certainly, we will support this law and we will vote for it, because G17 plus wants and the goal is G17 plus that Serbia meets the standards set before us by the European Union as soon as possible, not just for the sake of joining the family of European countries, but for the sake of our life and the life of our offspring. G17 Plus sees Serbia as a modern state where there is a significant space dedicated to ecological science and for this reason I will say once again that we will vote for this set of laws, we will support them and hope that there will be a majority among us, a lot of those who will support this law, and it would be good for us all to make a statement about it by consensus, because these laws are important to our future life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9797	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, and let the MP Milica Vojić-Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I expected that before these laws, a law on compensation for the damage done to us by NATO bombing in 1999 would be the basis for all the conditions that Europe today, tomorrow and who knows when it is conditional upon its laws. That time and that damage our people should not forget. So these laws would nibulate some environmental status and start to fit our living space and environment into the call of this European Union. I will list only one example of how much damage has been done in the "Fruška Gora" National Park, which is paved and bounded by an area of 25,000 hectares. Only 11 hectares of forest and forest land have caused damage worth $264 million. That's a shame at the moment. The consequences have yet to follow, and this will measure, detect and resolve this law that is on the agenda today. The relationship of all of us in the country should be at a higher level than today, but how do we do that when we know that the standard is below these criteria that maintain this set of laws and when we know that we are fighting for naked existence doesn't care much about this and its similar ecologicality. This law should ensure a safer and more stable line of functioning of national parks in our country. All these national parks must be treated and financially supported by the budget, i.e. the users of these natural resources from these environments. Then we can only participate and comment on the similarities and differences of our parks with some of the world's parks. The difference is on our side because yet our spaces aren't as polluted by industrial waste as those world countries that call themselves industrial countries. The bill on environmental impact assessment dealt with this matter in 47 members and suggested that this area be resolved and resolved. All those who influence environmental pollution will have to be subjected to this law. This law could have been done in accordance with the better relationship between polluters and environmental laws. The legacy of polluted environments is a risky area just like the NATO bombings so that it should be leveled and recorded. The sources of pollution are places where the biggest financial and legal regulation should be devoted. What are those relationships about now I wouldn't, because I'm not even able to affect those percentages. This should all be put into action at the very beginning, i.e. when planning itself. The legal basis for this law is contained in the 72nd member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it allows us to discuss it today. The funds for this 594 million law are needed to make it real, but realistically these funds need to be even bigger. People who work in the profession – protecting the human environment and forestry to allow our regions in Serbia to be more forestised by their actions, professions and sciences. I'm going to give an example - the woodland in Vojvodina is now 6%, and the plans are for this noise to be 20% and more. This programme should be implemented, but we will only be able to do so once we have hired, or employ our capacities in the economy. This famous Europe demands that noise be 42% and that the relationship between forests and other land is then a real picture of that ecological state. Next, the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment. The impact of this law is implemented by means of certain criteria that monitor air, water, land, climate, plant and animal life and ultimately other created values. The aim of this law is to bring the regulations of the Republic of Serbia into line with European Union rules. I reiterate that this Europe should deprive us in order to set a zero point, and only then do we accept these suggestions, and they were already on the agenda in previous comments with the former government. Imagine, gentlemen, if we had done such or similar damage to them, what could we be asking them to do in terms of legal regulations? Nothing. In the "Fruška Gora" National Park, such flora and fauna has been spread that these laws must be treated so that all functions must be met and that the resources for the operation of that space must be provided, not that it is not known whether these funds should provide any omnibus or republican budget. Everyone wants their pleasure and everyone wants an ecological picture, but the state implants in the middle of that park Beocinian cement factory that draws its own base out of the Neck of Fruska Gora. There is no such thing in the world, so despite all the promises and investments now known "Lafarza" to reduce pollution of the area and the inhabited town of Beocin has not fulfilled its promises. How do we use the resources from Fruska Gore? I mean healing herbs. We planned it in the National Park and beyond to deal with and produce healthy food and things like that, but we're not able to. I think the Omnibus Act for Vojvodina and this impact of the inspection is reduced to the principle of a stop-stop, so that these laws must be returned to the Republic's jurisdiction and then can only be controlled and affected, or enforceability will be realistic. How to resolve future relations with concessionaries who mainly have an Arenadian relationship, which is that with as little resources invested in ecology they acquire larger funds through their products? Local inspectors and the environment in which they act will be able to follow this set of laws with that famous wing – as much as money and music. The state of our water streams and rivers, whether they're polluted or not. Is that where the legal regulator was set up? I don't think so. The condition of the dump is a special story and we're not halfway through solving that problem with us. It's a strange picture and story, and it's seen in local self-government, and it's solved by the road system, either from the car or from the tractor as fast and as easy as possible. Whether these laws will be enforceable is now an open question and I find that it will be difficult to achieve. Until that moment until the synchronics between economics and environmentals are established, then a positive comment can be expected. The issue of eco-labels should be settled so that this eco-label provides a safety and serious analysis of those who give consent to that sign, so that we do not get that sign to receive the Burazer service system. Since I started with Fruško Gora, I'll finish this comment with her because I think she bases 16 monasteries that are organic cells and these ecological cells have left us ancestors in the amannet to protect, protect, protect and restore them. They are located in forest complexes bounded by streams, springs of drinking water and clean air, and the peace that is so needed by all, and peace, which is necessary for this set of laws to be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9799	The word has the People's MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, and let the MP Dobrica Jankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9800	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, issues of protection and conservation of nature and the environment of the developed Western country have been dealing with for the past few decades, and these issues have been a complete priority issue for them for the past few years. As a result of the activities launched to streamline relations with natural resources, a famous UN declaration on the environment and development, with a special reference to the 21st century programme, and the accent in this programme are some global topics, such as drying forests, a problem with the ozone envelope, which one of our distinguished fellow MPs said was a question of whether it was damaged. I'd love to, but the facts are different. Also, climate change, but also consistent changes and activities on their preservation and protection. Economic and ecological objectives are very integrated in Europe. Unfortunately, our situation is quite different. We have over a hundred regulations that partially cover different areas such as water, air, ore, plants, animals, forests, national parks. In 1991, the Law on the Protection of the Environment was introduced, which also protects itself in a partial manner in the areas of each of these mentioned parts. However, such a huge number of regulations are divided by sectors, of course, a problem to apply in practice. It's very difficult to coordinate a whole system so wide and then we have a problem and this problem leads to us not having a regulated system of protection. Such an orderly system of protection we expected from the previous government, which had quite pompously formed the Ministry of Environmental Protection and we expected to pass several laws, because this area is not covered legally by us. However, what is left behind is this comment by MPs, today the opposition, who do not accept that something is moving in a positive direction without their participation. In front of us today, except for these comments of today, there are many scandals about the pollution of Ibra, Pancheva, the killing of birds, not to mention the walking of dangerous substances along Serbia's frequent roads, etc. This is why we have one basic Law on the Protection of the Environment and these three laws: the Law on Impact Assessment, the Law on Strategic Impact Assessment and the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. Today for our country, they have special significance. This law has always treated this area as less important for us so far, and it has only been commented – rich societies have a chance of dealing with environmentalism. Our alibi is that we don't do environmentals at all. It is that we are poor society. Today, these laws keep the area under constant and continuous monitoring, cover legal laws and ensure constant coordination of all entities and their interests at all levels and across Serbia. The principles on which this law is based are set out in Article 72(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the principles on which it is based, are modern and are in line with European regulations. What are these principles? I have to mention them because I find them extremely important. First, protection of law. In fact, everyone is obliged to follow regulations and to act in accordance with laws and regulations when taking any kind of activity related to environmental impairment. The next principle is integrated prevention and control of pollution and environmental protection. Then, sustainable management of natural resources and environmental protection, in particular emphasising economic instruments and responsibilities, then public data on the state of the environment. It's something that we haven't really met too much and too much. In most cases, environmental issues are being kept quiet or news reports appear that are at the level of scandals. Let's just say, something after the NATO bombing, it was very relevant for us to find out what black dots are, because there's been a lot of talk about it, but today is not a reliable day, the public doesn't know what we're standing on. Another very important thing is the responsibility of environmental polluters and the next principle that the polluter carries the cost of pollution prevention and damage compensation in the event of environmental pollution. I have to stop there because I think this is one of the very important and significant principles, especially in transition countries, because this is how they can be provided, it's actually a basic instrument for providing financial resources to protect the environment. Its aim is to raise funds from activities that harm the environment through the introduction of fees and taxis and their purpose to protect the environment in the form of subsidies. This is a practical application of the principle – a pay contaminant. This is financial assistance to polluters or users of natural resources through direct payments, grants or aid, as well as credits for paying taxes, tax breaks, etc. The purpose of the subsidy is to encourage the polluters' companies to define themselves to accept imposed restrictions for purely economic reasons, i.e. to encourage the polluter to change behaviour and introduce cleaner technology or to use renewable resources. A positive example is Slovakia, which introduced five packaging fees in 2001, for batteries, batteries, oil, paper, glass, spent vehicles. These funds are collected and put into the recycling fund. When I mentioned this, I have to mention another side of this law that envisioned the establishment of a fund for environmental protection, and this fund allows for the purpose of using all sources of income from the Fund for the financing of the sustainable use of natural resources, air protection, water, land, forests, with the disposal of waste and the promotion of cleaner production, the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources and increased energy efficiency, the promotion of sustainable development of the rural area, the co-financing of preventive intervention measures and others. This fund's work is public and it's another good thing we can praise. Despite the comments I can hear listening to my previous colleagues, I must say that the set of these laws fully respected our reality. We didn't meet here as Alice in Wonderland, but we found ourselves in our reality, respecting what we are in, our specificity and our diversity. Respecting the degree of technological development of the country, the degree of democracy in the country, but respecting international standards and laws and respecting international practice, and above all Central and Eastern European countries. This set of laws achieves sustainable management of natural values and protection of environmental improvements and provides a healthy environment, and we must comment that this is the constitutional right of every citizen of our country. This set of laws aims to ensure integrated environmental protection as part of development processes and to identify a strategy for sustainable development and use of natural resources, planning, management and decentralisation of measures implemented. It brings environmental policy and economic policy into line. It provides unique environment protection instruments across Serbia's territory, unique instruments to implement plans and programmes. I think it's very important that I say, all entities of engagement he treats equally and obliges them to invest in the cost of production and work and environmental protection costs. Integrated protection of natural values is achieved by implementing measures to preserve their quality, quantity and reserves, as well as natural processes, their interdependence and natural balances in general. Protection concerns soil protection, agricultural and land protection, under forests, water, air, forest ecosystem protection, conservation and protection of biodiversity and biological resources, for example, indigenous plant and animal species. I've got to mention those scandals that have been repeated in a few ways about the sea and the bird smuggling. Management of hazardous substances, waste management, sources of noise and protection from radiation. The set of these laws offers standards of quality of the environment in Serbia, i.e. the limit value of the mission of polluting matter and energy in water, air, land and regulation measures that the government can impose to stop the activity of polluters, not only to interrupt the activity, but to completely interrupt the work of contaminants. Also, the polluter can get a deadline for its production and production technology to adapt to European standards. Most importantly, the Ministry is obliged to inform the public of the measures taken against the polluters, because that is what this country is missing a lot and that is what brings us all to become passive readers of newspaper inscriptions that don't always have to be in line with what actually happened. The law also prescribes a system of management and control of environmental protection in which legal and natural persons may be involved, if they possess a certificate showing that they meet the conditions for inclusion. This law stipulates that imports and production of substances that damage the ozone layer as well as imports of hazardous waste are prohibited. I have to comment that over the past few years, there have been many stories about how the waste has been imported and that it's been left somewhere in deserts or in remote places. The law provides for a national environmental protection programme that is adopted for a period of at least 10 years by the Assembly and which provides for the planning and management of the environment. This programme is being implemented through the realisation of the government's action and recovery plans for a period of five years. There are 16 action plans, while we cannot say a number for the recovery plans because it will depend on which areas the environment is threatened or there is an extreme risk of damage. Once a year, the government will report to the National Assembly on the state of the environment, and the report will be made public. One part of the planning and implementation of the plans is that the government trusts the autonomous province, or local community, which I consider to be an extraordinary shift, because it hurts us most where we live. We're less aware of what's going on in some other environments, but in our midst, it's good that we have the right to plan and carry out environmental activities. Also, local communities and provinces will have the responsibility to file a report and give it to the public for insight. These laws also provide for prevention measures, and I find it extremely significant, as well as these measures that I mentioned earlier by setting up a environmental fund, where financial resources will encourage protection and improvement of the environment. I think this is an extremely good set of laws, modern, precise, in line with international regulations, giving good control and sanctioning mechanisms, has a good system of coordination, and it is guaranteed that we have made a major step in preserving a healthy environment. I urge you to vote for this law. The DSS parliamentary group will vote for him anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9801	The word has a folk MP, Dobrica Jankovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared. Dobrika Jankovic is not here. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let MP Zoran Mašić be prepared. Dobrika Jankovic isn't here right now or isn't here? All right, thanks, just so I know about the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9802	Mr. President, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I am pleased that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt this set of laws in the field of environmental protection and these three accompanying laws, because the SPS MPs believe that the adoption of these laws creates a good basis for improving the environmental situation in Serbia. I say that the economic situation in Serbia is improved, because it is not great because Serbia's economic prospects are such that they are difficult to allow more serious investment in solving those environmental problems, and in certain environments, I will say something about it later, it has proved that there is no good will, not even the existing resources that are allocated to the protection of the environment and that it is used in a regulated and legally established way. We in Belgrade will hardly have a better ecological situation thanks to the city government's policy, or assembly. It can only be the result of good winds and increased baskets. To improve the environmental situation in Belgrade in any way, the basic precondition for this was to make changes in the general urban plan that would provide for the regulation of environmental issues at Belgrade's level. The previous and current city government, when changing the general urban plan in 2001, has done nothing about it. On the contrary, it gave priority to the construction of catering and business facilities and the construction of megamarkets, and thus essentially brought new air pollutants and poor air quality to the city center and into the city core. Belgrade has many problems in the field of ecology and in the perspective, it is hard to see either one will be more seriously solved. It's not just about moving industrial plants that are environmental pollutants, but also existing spaces that are hard to cultivate and turn into a safe environment that will not endanger the environment. For example, I will mention a dump in Vinca, which is the main dump for Belgrade. This dump, since it is not adequately decorated, is practically polluting the Danube coast, as liquid parts of the dump are poured into the Danube and polluting both the Danube and the coast. I must mention other things about Belgrade that are not as much a matter of financial means as good will. In fact, we were witnessing that the current government cut 100-year-old canvass in the main street or in the area of Rakovica and Lissi’s ditch; 580 pieces of hundred-year-old trees were cut down to create a space for building luxury villas. That in itself says what they think about environmentals. It is likely that building a plant to clean up municipal and medical waste is something that is on a "long stick" and requires significant financial resources. I must mention that in Belgrade we have, in the very center of the city, at Dorcol, a space which we socialists called the cemetery of old wagons; there are 50 old wagons, but it is interesting that this space also serves as a ramp for various toxins and chemical substances that seriously endanger the environment. We have been in a situation where, over the past few years, we have had more than one ecological incident or possible environmental disaster that we have been informed of, when it would happen, and there is no goodwill, desire, possibilities, or plans to clear that area and thus a potential focus of environmental disasters from downtown Belgrade is moving in another direction. It's a good thing the law is passed. Conditions are being created to improve the environmental situation in Serbia, but we will be in a position to see if and in those cases when certain financial resources are being used properly. I will provide a concrete example of the work of the Obrenovac Municipality's ecological fund, the way in which these funds are spent. Before I mention the specific data related to the way this fund works, I have to mention Tent Obrenovac, not only as the largest electricity producer, almost 50 percent of the electricity needs are produced in these two thermal power plants A and B, but also as an object that throws huge amounts of ash into the air and carries out an air pollution in huge quantities. Few people know that there are 17,000 tons of ash and slags in the air from the TENT daily. If you add to that the "Costoc", which casts 5,5 thousand tons of that ash, you can figure out what amounts of ash and slag and which is the pollution of air, soil and groundwater. I've been asking questions, there's not one ash in the world that's been done completely in the right way to say that everything is ideal. I know that the thermal power plant is also working to address this issue and that the results are not good, but in any case, there is a good intention, as I am aware that this issue is trying to be solved through the procurement of new electrofilters, because the existing ones are not adequate, are not appropriate to the criteria of European, or international standards set by European countries. In the case of a method of spending the funds established by law to improve the ecological situation in one municipality, I will mention an example of the work of the Eco-Fund of Obrenovac Municipality. That fund has huge resources. For 2004, the fund is planned to have 89 million dinar funds, and you will see for some day when we are discussing the municipality's revenues, how many municipalities receive funds for the purpose of functioning, so you will see that the budget of this eco-fund itself is far higher than 50 per cent of municipalities in Serbia get by the state. However, the way in which these funds are spent not only is not intended, not only is it not safe, but it falls under that category of illegal spending of those funds. Namely, I have data obtained from people who are familiar with the way the eco-fund works and these funds are not spent for real purposes, but are spent for purposes that have nothing to do with eco-logy. If I mention the fact that the funds from this fund are spent, say, a million dinars to buy a residential building of people in the ruling furniture of the Obrenovac municipality, you'll see what it means, or that the funds were given to make a film about women's rights, otherwise a film that didn't see the light of day, that the funds were given to different NGOs, then in itself it says enough what people were doing with those funds. Or that the reconstruction of the Baric water pipeline, which was in the fund's 2003 work programme, was found to cost 10 million dinars, and 35 million dinars were later allocated for the project. It was scheduled to be 12 million, and 35 million apart. Not to mention, 32 million dinars have been set up to build one dump. A colleague, Petronijevic, mentioned the dump as an active problem in the Obrenovac municipality, but the funds were not spent to edit the dump, and it is still known as a wild dump. In this way, I must mention that the resources spent to spray mosquitoes, which in itself would not be disputed if there were no data that the same job was paid by the city government or that a certain space of excursion in the area of Obrenovac, was used to improve it, which is something that should have been done by another public enterprise. I mentioned this because the decision of the municipality on the establishment of the fund very precisely determines that the funds must be used in a dedicated way, and the Law on the Protection of the Environment in Art. 90-99 determines what the fund has to do. The fund is at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but analogy is used at the municipal level. This is a job, first of all, for the state authorities, to determine how these funds are spent, because these funds are extremely large and are used unintendedly. This certainly will not contribute to improving the ecological situation. We Socialists of Belgrade do not wonder how funds are spent by the current government in Obrenovac, because a few days ago we had a situation that the Assembly of the Municipality was elected illegally. Believe it or not, that power forgot to put on the agenda the proposal of the SRS and the SPS candidates on the grounds that the proposal remained at home, i.e. they forgot to refer it to all the committees. If they treat their fellow councilmen so recklessly, they violate the Law on Local Self-Government, then you can imagine how they spend these funds. All in all, I think the law is good, it contains a lot of quality solutions. I think this law will improve, if nothing else, even if our information on the need to protect the environment in Serbia. We should live in a healthy environment. I'm sorry there's no special ministry for environmental protection. With all due respect to the current minister and respecting his abilities, the issue of environmental protection deserves to be the subject of the work of the special ministry, as it is an extremely important issue for Serbia and for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS MPs, in any case, will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9803	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Mašić has the word, and let the Messenger of Nadika Momirov be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9804	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the rapid growth of industrial infrastructure and limited possibilities of eco-systems have led to environmental pollution, to the extent that people on the planet are seriously at risk of health and safety. A large number of processes, products and services have an impact on the environment, and are reflected in the creation of different types of waste, emissions, atmosphere, water and land pollution, irrational use of natural resources, etc. In order to prevent these harmful phenomena, many countries have adopted a large-scale legislative regulation. However, in these efforts to prevent environmental pollution, there was no universal approach, so that it could be applied worldwide. All these efforts were based on a reactive approach to protection, i.e. access to the implementation of environmental protection measures against the impact of existing processes, products and services. This approach to environmental protection has not yielded the expected results, as is the state of the environment today in the world, and certainly with us. It is therefore good that the other day we started, and I hope that today we will conclude the debate on a set of laws that regulate this matter, because it is important and important that there is a serious regulation of environmental protection in each country. Given the short time I have available, I'm going to concentrate on a few specifics of this law. First of all, I would refer to the planning of environmental management. The law provides for a national environmental protection programme. It is certainly extremely good that the National Assembly will bring him and that he will be brought for 10 years. The national programme is implemented through the implementation of the government's action and recovery plans for a period of five years. A total of some 16 action plans are being established. It may be necessary to consider whether this deadline, proposed, of five years, for the adoption of action and rehabilitation programmes, is too long in this situation of intensive industrialisation or the appearance of various other contaminants. Let's just say that I mention the occurrences of various infectious animal diseases, which require rapid interventions and killing a large number of animals, because that's the only way to stop some of these infectious diseases. I will only mention the problem of a few years ago - the occurrence of dioxins in food, and the contamination of foods, i.e. in a large number of chickens, i.e. chicken meat. Then, the occurrence of prion diseases in animals, especially so-called A disease of mad cows that, say, in England caused, as a measure of suppression, killing close to five million cattle. Or, there are new infectious animal diseases that will, for example, require more mass destruction of these animals. Certainly, the state must prescribe, in order to protect the environment, a certain action plan on how to implement it. I therefore suggest that it be considered whether any operational action programmes should be adopted annually, in relation to current environmental pollution situations. When I mention the action programme, it is particularly incomprehensible that, after the adoption of this law, in the final and transitional provisions, I propose that an action programme be adopted only within two years. I think it's too long a period and we should cut it short for at least a year. I think there's a basis for that, especially since we heard from here in the report that the government has accepted once a year to inform the National Assembly and the public about the degree of environmental pollution. The next thing I want to look into is environmental protection conditions, first of all, environmental management and environmental control systems. The Republic shall apply domestic and international standards and regulations for the management, certification and registration of the environmental management system. A certified environmental management system can be registered by a legal and natural person to include in the environmental management and control system in the European Union, etc. EMAS system. I expected that, in the context of the interpretation of this law, our distinguished minister would look a little more at international standards of environmental protection, meaning ISO 14001, because I think our public is still a little bit informed about this standard and we have a very small number of subjects who have certified the environmental protection system. I'll just remind you of what the ISO standard is, essentially, 14.001. It is a generic standard, which can be applied in all organisations, production and service, large, medium and small, in all countries, whether they are developed or developed. An organisation that wants to verify its environmental management system needs to prove that it meets the requirements contained in the standard. The aim of the standards is to help organisations and economies in general to preserve the environment. It is important to point out that ISO 14001 does not define the level of impact on the environmental protection plan, but only setting up requirements for the environmental management system. The standard states that it does not define absolute requirements regarding the impact on the protection plan, but only insists on identifying the organisation, i.e. the expressed environmental policy in respect of compliance with relevant laws and regulations and the introduction of a continuous improvement. So I think that our country should be more propagating in the coming period and also be a state measure and a policy of propagating the introduction of international standards, both environmental standards and ISO 9,000 standards, means quality standards. I'm going to say one more thing about monitoring the environmental state, where through monitoring, which is part of the environmental information system, it's quite fine, bringing in a two-year government programme, where a two-year monitoring programme is being adopted, and bringing in the government. Although I think it would be more logical for the ministry to be the key in adopting a monitoring programme, because it should have better insight than the government, but the government, as an executive body, can, on a proposal from the ministry. What monitoring needs to do, it is through authorised organisations, which should meet the conditions regarding personnel, equipment and space, accreditation for measuring the given parameter and JUS ISO standards in the field of sampling, measurement, analysis, etc. So this is where you mention international quality standards, and we know that for a time, in the past few years, state policy was, above all, the policy of the Ministry of Science, which has been provoked by the introduction of ISO standards, primarily in scientific and research institutions. I expect that you will reactivate and set it as requirements and obligations, first of all, in scientific and research institutions, but also in other institutions, introducing international standards of quality system and accreditation of laboratories. Quality implementation of this monitoring can only be performed by laboratories that have a quality system and accreditation in place. Finally, I would like to say that, in order to improve the protection of the environment, this should be included in our country's education process, from primary school and beyond, because only by educating youth and citizens can we preserve a healthy environment and leave it as such generations. Finally, I would also suggest that the Ministry of Science define targeted research, first of all, developmental and focused on studying and improving environmental protection, because a new research cycle is coming in two or three years, and it would be good if such projects were promoted in the right way and included in as many scientific and research organisations as possible, and that people involved in this work are involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9805	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Cedomir Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9806	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the G17 Plus parliamentary group, will support and vote in favour of this set of laws governing the area and protecting the environment. There are several reasons why G17 plus will vote for this set of laws, and I will mention two significant reasons. One of these reasons is that the laws are perfectly processed and have all segments of one area to be defined by law. It is obvious that the legislator has in a quality and thorough way processed matter with all relevant aspects. The second reason is certainly that the G17 plus is going high towards this, that is, the arrangement of the area and the protection of the environment. Because G17 plus advocates the better future of this country and of all citizens, and that includes, among other things, the right to a healthy life in a healthy environment. In the area of protection of natural values there are over a hundred regulations, then there is a Law on the Protection of the Environment dating back to 1991. This law regulates several segments within the area of environmental protection, but such a system, I mean above all, the Law on the Protection of the Environment and a series of regulations adopted under this law, there are also a number of gaps. Many regulations have led to the existence of segmental division, i.e. the division of different powers by segments in different state bodies and services, i.e. primarily public services, and therefore could not agree to provide adequate protection of the environment. A large number of laws and regulations do not have unique and clearly defined objectives. The approach so far has been such that there has been a discrepancy, i.e. poor coordination between republican and other levels, is meant by the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. All of this has led to us being all witnesses of a rather poor state of affairs as far as environmental protection is concerned, that is, that is, the high degree of pollution in our country. I don't think I need to mention the problem of Pancheva, Bora, Beocina, down rivers and lakes. What I can mention and what's most clearly visible, these are unresolved problems with the dumps, then the disposal of the trash, etc. No matter how we should not have an excuse for non-compliance with the rules, it can be concluded that in the process of change and in relation to environmental protection, the state should lead and play a key role, and that is exactly what is happening to us now by passing these laws. As I have already mentioned to you, the Proposer has handled the matter well, taking into account the previous situation, the reasons why the previous situation is as it is, then the experience from the EU and other countries, the regulations from other countries, and our regulations should be in line with them and all of this has led to a set of laws that clearly states that this area will be processed and improved in a much better way than it has ever been. I would particularly point out that this law is based on the basics, i.e. it has a clearly defined starting base, and also a clearly defined goal. I would like to stress, first of all, the promotion and education of personnel, there is the development of awareness of the importance of the environment, and I would also highlight public participation in the activities and processes of decision-making in the area of the environmental protection system. In the end, what I'm saying is, this government has proposed many important laws over the past ten months, and the Assembly has adopted. All these laws are important because they lead to an improvement in the situation in our society in different areas. Why are environmental laws very important? Because we all deserve a systemized, safe and stable country, with a good standard of living for all categories in our society, as well as a clean environment. This is all G17 plus stands for, and therefore we appeal to all the MPs, or all the parliamentary groups to vote for this set of laws, because the area of environmental protection must be above political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9807	The word has a folk MP, Cedomir Petkovic, is not there; the word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9808	Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thinking about what to say about this law and listening to previous debaters, the first thing I saw was a discussion of the MPs of an MP group. It was two concepts. This was about strategy and sustainable development. As someone who has dealt with the problem of environmentalism over the past few years and as a member of the city's government, I am first in debt for the public and for the sake of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade to explain what the public word is and what is done. For ten years, Belgrade has been trying to launch a serious project. The project is called "Belgrade Healthy City". These efforts have been done, I think, since 1992. It was a strategic document that should lead to improvement, better health conditions for Belgrade's population and better environmental conditions. These efforts were made in 2000, and the cycle was completed, a strategic document based on an assessment of Belgrade's health status and was based on an environmental assessment. Let's see what happened to that project, that project is simply off the agenda. Take a look at the city's responsible authority, the responsibility of the president of Belgrade's Executive Board and look at the public word spoken - sustainable development and strategy. Strategically whether it's important to have such a document, strategically whether it's important to launch this project, it certainly is. It's a non-strategic way of thinking about taking that project down. To mention certain problems, whether strategically to make a decision to build a garage in downtown Belgrade, to place more than 400 polluters in the city centre. Let's see the new things that are being solved. A strategic decision and a good way of thinking to build a gas station in front of the newly built "Limes" hall, at a distance of 50 meters from the residential buildings. Let's see if that facility has permission, see whose strategic decision it is. So, considering all this, that I'm not talking about the problem of the Vinca dump, that I'm not talking about the Borca crematorium, that I'm not talking about transit through downtown Belgrade, it seems to me that in part the topic was just opened by Zarko Obradovic. That document just doesn't define anything. Many dilemmas were in the professional public, many criticisms, but the city's majority of the Democratic Party simply adopted the document. That act doesn't define traffic either. They define him in some way, but let's see what's done. And today, we have ecological incidents, so let's say that the tanker turns over to Gazela, that the tankers from the girl's car in Topcider or Makish, that when it goes from Ban's hill to wait an hour, an hour and a half at the crossing of the Hippodrom, let's see what's been done with the noise of the city of Belgrade and what's been improved that these things don't happen. It's nothing, cosmetics has been done, something that will cloud the eyes of citizens of Belgrade, something that will not lead to improvement. The speakers before me said the laws rest on principles and I think there's a basis. I'm not going to explain every principle, but I'm going to count them anyway. The first of these principles is the protection of the right by which everyone is obliged to act in accordance with the regulations when taking over activities that affect the creation of the environment. Second, pollution control and environmental protection. Third, sustainable management of natural environmental values, responsibilities-based economic instruments and environmental pollution, with a significant role of the state as a guarantor in the transitional period. The fifth principle is a unique monitoring of the situation and a unique information system. I'm going to stay here for a while and give another example. It's something that refers to a unique information system. In this area it is necessary, as in other areas, to have a unique information system, where all data will flow in order to take concrete and timely action. I'm going to set an example of a city from western Serbia. It's about Loznica. You have a series of environmental problems here, and you've never had real information about what's going on before. So it happened that, without any criteria, without any information, one drive for the melting of lead panels of old batteries was revived. There was a big alarm in the city, but then the government, then the environment ministry, did nothing, not even a tour of the area, nobody even asked those people what it was about. I'm talking about the shoreline of Drina, which has been irrevocably destroyed for the past 10-15 years, a driven gravel used for construction work. What's going on? It was not a responsibility for anyone to take these digs out and not only not for responsibility, but for these excavations being filled with waste. You have a shoreline of Drina within a few dozen miles that is now irretrievably destroyed. When I talk about all these things, I have to go back to the way people who worked, either in the last Republic government, or in local self-government, had a responsibility to make one move. That responsibility, I think, was just declarative. I'll give you another example. Every year, the city's assembly had an obligation to report on the health status of the Belgrade city's population. The health status of Belgrade's population showed some distortions, showing that pathology was moved up due to environmental pollution. Look at that relationship. The point was removed from the agenda and that was the strategic thinking of the former city government. If that's what the city government does, there's no movement. Of course, the current ministry is in a position to make a serious move with these four laws. The realization of this development requires a change in the behaviour of entities and carriers responsible for protecting the environment and development, i.e. bringing development economic policy into line in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It must be borne in mind that environmental protection is provided only after the adoption of specific laws and compliance of existing laws and other regulations with the provisions of this law. So we are facing continuity in work, harmonisation of other regulations and laws, and this is the only way we can get to the point of raising environmental protection to a higher level and joining European Union standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9809	The word has the People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let the MP of the people, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these four laws that are under discussion together, all four will not be the subject of what I'm going to talk about, just a bill on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution and a bill on environmental protection. All four laws are under European Union directives and we do not dispute the need for such laws to be passed. What I find illogical about the proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution is still illogical, is in Article 2, right at the beginning of the law, an explanation of the individual terms given in this law and their meaning. So it is said under point 1) the meaning of the word matter, i.e. the expression of matter – matter, or substance, is every chemical element and its compound other than radioactive matter and genetically modified organisms within the meaning of certain laws. Furthermore, the law does not specify these meanings specifically, but point 2) is pollution, and the explanation is – pollution is directly or indirectly the introduction of matter, vibration, heat or noise into the air, water or land caused by human activity. Now the question arises, since you have not put radioactive materials into matter, radioactive materials do not have to cause vibrations, or heat, or noise. Have you consciously left room for someone to import and deposit radioactive materials in Serbia or this is a mistake I would ask you to correct. It's completely illogical to have abandoned radioactive materials and you'll be in a position to import radioactive materials into the country tomorrow, you tell him – you can't, and he says – I can, because it's allowed by Article 2 of the Law. And if these arguments were at the end of the law, it would be logical, but when they're found as a member of the law, they're very risky in law enforcement. I'm going to move to the Environmental Protection Act. Under this law, again Article 2, the first position, where you are talking about conditions and instruments for a system for environmental protection, says – practically conditions and instruments for this are sustainable management, conservation of natural balance, integrity, diversity and quality of natural values and conditions for the survival of all living things. Since the world has long been in terrible technological development, we are witnessing that many are working on genetically modified beings. It's also a lot of work done on cloned beings, and here it would take something to limit and, say, add, except for all living beings created by natural means, and for these other beings created by bioengineering or various genetic modifications or cloning that they can be explained through the law that they can be the subject of research, because they can't get in the way, but to be strictly controlled and to stay away from living beings created by natural means. In the meaning of the term in this law, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, you have the term "protected natural good". I'd mostly base my discussion on the next one. Namely, protected natural well-being as a monument of nature under the protection of the state since 1999 is Lazarev Canyon. It is located in the area of the village of Zlot in the municipality of Bor and in the last few years there is a completely uncontrollable forest cut. For this purpose, huge webs of roads have been built and, if the laws forbid it to do so. That's not where game is taken care of, even though it's a hunting area. There's a sniveling game and several times in the last four years the locals of that village, 1096 of them signed various petitions. They also tried through the Ministry of Agriculture, through various environmental inspectors, or environmental inspectors, to at least point to the problem of dozens of hectares of cut forests and killings of wildebeests. Believe me, they've failed to date, even though it's on the Committee on Agriculture. Imagine, this area is owned by the "Serbishum". Their bossship over the area expired on January 24th of this year, almost a year ago, and they continue to cut the forest in a senseless fashion. Yesterday they cut, even though it was Sunday, and today they're going to cut, and nobody's doing anything in that area. The monument of nature under the protection of the state is practically a wasteland. I don't know if you as the Ministry of Environmental Protection will decide to respond to this and prevent what else can be prevented, even though the damage has already been done. I'd like to draw attention, too, but I've already mentioned environmental inspectors. It's something that already exists on a local level, unfortunately it never came back to life. It is about people who are largely unprofessional, who have come along some political lines here and who have no courage or have no good communication with their superiors to insist that when they see irregularities in the environment to report competent authorities, who would react and who would at least be able to impose penalties prescribed by these laws. I would still talk about the best available techniques mentioned in this law, and most often it is, when it comes to environmental protection, that the largest number of manufacturers do not make so-called. Equipment that's ecological, but it's designed to sell equipment. Nothing significant in the world of science in the last 30 years has fundamentally happened in this field, except that different products are better packed, that some software is inserted and that it's sold as a very high technology. I'll tell you that on the case of copper production. In fact, for the past 100 years copper has been produced exclusively if it is pyrometalurgy in one way, there are no other ways. Now the only difference is that you will get one screen on which you will evaluate when the melt in the oven is enough to start a further process with it or you will have one master who is dressed and when he looks and he will tell you from the eye – well, now it is enough to go to the second stage of processing. There should be caution because we will certainly come into a situation that we have opened the door for importing foreign equipment which, apart from being well packed, does not essentially bring anything. The law also deserved to list at least the national parks that Serbia has and how it relates to national parks. Also, nothing or very little is said only for imports of waste, where it is completely unclear whether waste can be imported or not, because it speaks of manipulation, or disposal of waste. It was supposed to be the subject of this law. At the local level, the largest number of so-called. The office, or local eco-action plans, only serves to employ a large number of local officials to hire their closest ones, to have them in some offices that are very small and have 15-16 employees who finance themselves, and I had the opportunity to watch these local action plans and believe that they were all done by the same scheme, only the names of municipalities were changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9811	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. He's not here. The People's MP Ljubisa Djokovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9812	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a member of the DSS of the Royals, representing citizens from the territory of the Rascian County. I am a specialist in radiologist and employee at the Health Center of Studenica in Kralje. At the beginning of the exhibition, I will meet this esteemed home with water supply problems with proper drinking water in the King, which directly affects human and animal health. In fact, chemical analysis of Ibar River water streams has constantly increased the concentration of phenolic and nitrogen compounds above allowed, which is also the case with drinking water, so the King is constantly on the verge of emergency. We hope that these laws in the field of environmental protection will enable the Royals to systematically solve water supply by means of the Government with healthy drinking water, as well as wastewater treatment. We have before us a package of proposals for four environmental laws. The package contains one basic and three special laws. It has long been waiting for these very important laws that will be the basis for further proper development of our country and which will put under control the current environmental pollutants, as well as to prevent new pollution. This is the beginning, the framework, and the spring follows another five to six special laws in this area. The Government and Resort Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection have made a very serious and professional approach to this problem and we have a good proposal for a law on environmental protection, which is better and more concise than the previous proposal. First of all, I would like to stress that this is a new concept approach in the process of drafting the Environmental Protection Act, which is in line with the European Union regulations and with our specificities. To join the European Union, the priority in the field of environmental protection is the adoption of environmental law and a set of specific laws. This proposed law has the following marking: consistency and consistency, clearly established principles of environmental protection, strategic, preventive and integrated approach to management of natural resources to protect the environment, strengthened role and responsibility of the Government, and not of one of the ministers responsible for environmental protection, particularly expressed co-operation between competent authorities, the demarcated competence between the Republic, the AP and local self-government. The framework for the management of natural values, which is governed by specific laws, measures and conditions of environmental protection, constitute the core of the law and the essential concept paper. The Agency for Environmental Protection, as an information centre for the collection, processing and exchange of data with other information systems, public participation in decision-making, continuous control and monitoring of the environmental status, establishment of environmental funds, increased responsibility of the state and pollutants for pollution. It is a system law, i.e. a framework law, which is the basis for specific laws, which will circle the system in the approximation of the European Union. The text of the bill, in addition to the basic provisions, also contains provisions relating to: - management of natural values, - measures and conditions of environmental protection, - monitoring of the state of the environment, - informing and participation of the public, - economic instruments, - responsibility for environmental pollution, - supervision, criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions etc. In order for the law to be enforceable, I would stick to the economic instruments, which are: - compensation for the use of natural resources, - compensation for environmental pollution, - funds and international financial assistance, - the environmental fund, - economic incentives and other measures. This bill of law is good, but nothing is so good that it couldn't be better. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment, whose member I am, has respected the constructive objections of all parliamentary groups, as well as professional associations, so the basic bill is improved by the adoption of, about, 13 amendments of seventy-something, which have been submitted. For example, Article 15 has been adopted to agree on the use of natural resources to provide, in addition to the competent ministry, a greater involvement of professional organisations in the process of giving consent to the use of natural resources or goods. On Article 85, 60% of the income is from local self - government, and 40% of the income is from the Republic’s budget. On Article 87 - compensation units of local self - government; all of this will be discussed in detail. The DSS parliamentary group will vote for this good bill because it needs our country. We invite all other MPs to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9813	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9814	Ladies and gentlemen, there are four laws in the field of environmental protection, environmental impact assessment law, environmental strategic impact assessment law, integrated prevention and pollution control laws and environmental protection laws. It is a very extensive material and once new approach to this environmental problem. I will try in short lines to make some of my remarks here, if there is an opportunity to clarify and to correct this law through the amendments that have been submitted to make it as good as possible, rather than given in this proposal. I will start with the first proposal, the environmental impact assessment law, and what's new in this set of laws, it's a newspaper that refers to local self-government, that is, the obligation of local self-government to the environment and to the current state of affairs that we had in local self-government. It is known that so far we have only had one, in smaller municipalities, environmental inspector, and that was all local self-government had to do with the environment. This law provides for education of local authorities in addition to authorities responsible for environmental protection problems at the republican and regional level. So, every municipality will have an obligation to form an appropriate environmental protection body, i.e. for jobs at its level, and I have to notice that it is an organ, a collective body, that will have to have more people involved. It'll be a new cost for local self-government, because so far we've only had one local communal inspector. In other laws in this set there are certain obligations of local self-government on this issue, so there is a new body, which is a technical commission. It is not a permanent body, but an occasional body that is engaged as necessary, but it is a body that will use the funds of local self-government, i.e. there is an obligation for local self-government to finance that body as well. Also, there is monitoring, as is the obligation of local self-government to monitor, i.e. monitoring the state of the environment in its territory. This will not be done by local self-government, will be done by authorised accredited organisations, but the work will be charged and under these laws the funding obligation is on local self-government. It's about another expense and a local self-government spending. There is another obligation of local self-government, which is to appoint one member to the Technical Control Commission or to review the facilities. There will be a certain obligation in a material sense. What I'm saying is that all of these obligations of local self-government are much greater based on environmental protection than they have ever been. There will be higher costs and difficult local self-government will be able to respond to all the requirements, since we all know the condition of most of our municipalities. Serbia has poor municipalities and they cannot allocate so much funds for these purposes. I would also like to say another objection to bring to Article 22 in the first law, which is the technical commission, where it says that for the assessment of the study, the competent authority educates the technical committee and that the president of that commission must be of the staff of the competent authority. And objectively, there's a big problem in small municipalities, because this organ has to be professional. We don't have enough people in small municipalities who are skilled and trained to do these jobs. It is very difficult to meet these criteria, given the situation on the ground. For the members of this committee may be appointed persons with high professional training, etc., and I am afraid that here it was necessary to explain a little more precisely who might be a member of this committee, and in the end I think that there should be at least one man with an expert examination of the appropriate profession, so that these commissions should not be so de facto defined by some other criteria, perhaps political or otherwise. It seems to me to be one of the possible sources of abuse at the local level. Article 30 speaks of an impact assessment on the environment. It is talked about objects already in operation and the need to assess their impact on the environment, but this obligation applies to functions that do not have the necessary permission. I think it should have left the bar as an opportunity for this assessment to be carried out and carried out for the facilities that are in use and have their permits, but those permits earlier in the date, when standards and criteria on environmental protection were at a much lower level. So, let's adapt a little bit to these facilities and current situations with modern regulations and standards in the field of the environment. Also, article 30 checks the fulfilment of the conditions and consent to the impact assessment. He says the competent authority has appointed a person, which I mentioned earlier, which will be part of the technical review committee of the facility. It is not specified here which conditions that the person should meet, which are the conditions regarding the profession that the person must meet. I believe that this person must have passed a professional exam in order to be able to participate in the body to verify the fulfilment of these conditions. It's about this first law. In the second law, the law on strategic impact assessment, I would just like to highlight the remarks on Article 10, where the choice of the holder is made of a report on the strategic assessment. Here it is allowed that a natural person may be the bearer of that report. I think it is inadmissible and that it should be a legal person or entrepreneur at the very least, and especially since the previous law already says that an entrepreneur, or a legal person, can conduct an environmental impact assessment. It's already limited there and it can't be a physical person, and here it's allowed to be a physical person. I think it should be coordinated, or that the physical person should not be in that situation. As regards the proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, Article 11 discusses the notification of bodies and organisations and the public. Here is the term – interested public. There are certain obligations of the entity to which these obligations apply on the basis of environmental protection. There is a term – an interested public, where it says anyone interested in protecting the environment in which the facility is located can ask the competent authority to issue a permit and make an insight into the documentation etc. It seems to me that this is a little imprecisely defined, and I'm afraid we're going to get into a situation where every citizen in a particular territory is going to ask for complete documentation to make an insight, because they're going to have a basis under this law and say, "I'm interested because it's near my house, my property, and so on." Perhaps we should regulate that term a little more precisely – the interested public, who might be interested. Whether it will be each individual, then thousands of people will come to the municipality to ask for documentation, the obligor will have an obligation to copy into a thousand copies that request for permission, all documents, etc. Article 12 – draft permit, first and second attitudes are in small conflict. The first point states that the competent authority has an obligation to draw up a permit within 45 days of the application, and already in the second position it is required to notify the authorities and organisations and the public of the draft authorisation within five days. How it will notify within five days, if it has 45 days to prepare that draft permit. Seems to me there's a little colitis here. In the end, the fourth law, the environmental law. Article 12 mentions strategic documents and I think it is a good approach, that it is necessary to draw up strategic documents in this area as well. However, there are certain deadlines here for making these documents. I'd like to point out that we have problems in other areas where there are obligations to make these strategic documents. The deadlines are broken, there's no time left, time's up, and nothing's done. For example, in our education, we have a case of the law providing for educational advice. The deadline was August 5th to be elected in the Assembly. It's been four months. That advice is still missing. The Energy Act has announced a strategy for energy development and is still missing. I'm just asking that this be respected, so it's not like in other cases. Finally, this law speaks of economic instruments. It is intended to introduce compensation for the use of natural values. I remind you that there are other laws – the Mining Act, where this fee is foreseen long ago. No government has ever determined the amounts of these fees and today there are no prescribed fees for the use of mineral raw materials and other natural resources. Article 87 speaks of the possibilities left to local self-government to introduce certain fees to finance all those needs that I initially cited. I think this is very bad, unpopular. You know how poor our people are and that the introduction of these goods taxis that are already taxed by the republican regulations will be a difficult blow for the population who is in a difficult material situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9815	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let the MP Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9816	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support this law. The G17 plus party and our parliamentary group are recognizable by wanting rapid economic and economic development. We are recognizable by the economic reforms we are conducting in Serbia. We want economic growth to be accelerated, we want to introduce new technology into Serbia and we want all of us to move quickly towards the future together. It's clear one thing -- to get to the future, we need to make sure that it survives first. So the future must exist. In order for the future to exist, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must first of all ensure a healthy environment. So, preserving the environment is one of the most important conditions that we, not only our children, but our grandchildren have a future. So it's very important that we support this law today, because it's the first step towards it. We believe that this law is good, that the promoter has shown a very good knowledge of the matter he's talking about, that he has worked very systematically on this and that the law in general represents a very good attempt to maintain our environment and preserve it. What is it that we especially want to emphasize and praise in this law? First of all, the law clearly defines the concepts, principles, management of natural values and, within it, the planning and use and protection of natural values. Then, the law clearly sets out the measures and conditions for protecting natural values and our environment, providing continuous monitoring of the state and characteristics of natural values, ensuring the continued information and participation of the public in the environmental conservation process, also provides for economic instruments for the enforceability of this law, and this is a law that clearly defines the system of responsibility in the conservation of the environment. These are all principles, principles that G17 plus fully supports and these are the reasons why G17 plus will support this law. What I particularly want to stress is that this law defines an area that I consider to be very important, that is, a kind of conservation of the environment, which is, above all, strengthening awareness of the conservation of the environment. Strengthening awareness is something that is very important to highlight in all those areas that we want to improve and develop in Serbia. It is clear that each citizen must personally bear responsibility for the preservation of his environment, for the development of his environment and for the development and preservation of national and national interests. Strengthening awareness, defined through the institutions of education, health, culture, various other associations dealing with this area, is something that we consider particularly significant, because we believe that from a small age we should believe in the importance of the environment, so that it can be preserved in the future at all. It's an important task for all of us. I would especially like to emphasise the importance of the principle – the polluter pays, because it must become clear that our environment cannot be polluted, that it must be kept and that everyone in this area behaves differently must pay for it. So they have to pay all those costs that involve protecting or solving the consequences of their behavior. What I particularly want to praise is to define the need to develop a national strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources, because I believe that the creation of national strategies in those areas of our common interest is extremely important. We have a few good examples. I will specify a strategy to reduce poverty or the strategy to develop agriculture. I think it is very important that people who have taken responsibility in certain areas should think strategically. This means that the importance of one problem should be brought to a higher level, given the fact that parliamentary councils, that governments are transient, but national strategies must be something that remains behind them, something that we will all agree on. The environment must be such an important question. Furthermore, I would like to stress that a very important part of this law is for me also contained in that area that defines economic incentives in the area of environmental conservation and in particular the establishment of a fund for the conservation and development of the environment, which will be financed in part from the budget, part of projects implemented to preserve the environment in collaboration with countries in the environment and the international community, part of donations and help within our country all those who want to support the sustainable development of our society and the environment through this fund. Also, ladies and gentlemen, in the end I want to stress, as usual, that it is important to define and criminal policy in this area, because unfortunately our practice shows that something like that is necessary. I think it's also one of the steps we need to take. I want to remind you of something else, ladies and gentlemen. The environment in our country, and I'm going to speak for my generation and a few older ones, just 30 years ago it looked pretty different. At that time, during our childhood, we could bathe in rivers, we could play and hang freely during the summer days, there were many more birds in the immediate surroundings of our cities, we could sunbathe without any special restrictions. We saw the sun as joy, not danger and warning. Thirty years is a very short period for planet Earth. I just want to tell you that it's hard to imagine what's going to happen in 30, 60 or 300 years with our environment if we keep doing this. It's impossible for our children to imagine what we've enjoyed. One more thing - in 200, 300 or 500 years, the state's borders will look quite different, the political environment will certainly be different. I regret to say that surely some of our parties will not exist then, but it is quite certain that some tree we plant today will live and then, and even moreover, our rivers and mountains will still be here. It is therefore very important that we overcome each other's differences in this area and it is very important that we take the first step on this long road that awaits us all together. Even if it seems to us, and the opposition certainly seems so, that this step may not be good enough or that this step has some drawback, I want to tell you that it leads to the future. I want to invite you all together, on behalf of the G17 plus, to support this law, because the G17 plus wants, along with you, that today, by supporting this law, to leave a mark in eternity, by making our citizens' lives better today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9817	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, and let the peoples of the MP Boris Karaic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9818	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, in the last period of time in Serbia are living shorter, getting sicker and quality of life is worse, with a tendency to worsen. Based on research, the main causes of death are cardiovascular disease - 57%, malignancies - 17% and injuries are in third place. It is precisely because malignancies are represented somewhere in 17%, the question is whether genetic predisposition or radiation syndrome is due to the impoverished uranium of ionizing radiation. If we know that NATO bombings have caused damage to Serbia worth $4 billion, 200 million, then the answer is for sure that the poor uranium has major effects as well. That is why this law needs to be studied complexly and studioically, because in medicine it is most important to act preventively. That's why I brought this data out. In line with the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment, where some international experiences are defined, the UN Declaration on the Environment, then, in most countries, the Ministry of Environment includes nature, air, soil, water, flora and fauna, noise, waste, dangerous chemicals. That is why, on behalf of the SRS, I keep insisting that these three elements (air, water and land) need to be united. Obviously, this is a competent ministry related only to air, while the Ministry of Forestry, Agriculture and Water Management deals with water and land. Obviously, it takes all of this to be united, because the environment is viewed as a united interaction of many factors, influences. A problem that just arises, when some problems arise in the environment, precisely because we don't know who's in charge and who's responsible, who's professional and who's competent, there are problems that we're having a hard time solving. The control of measures against environmental pollution is carried out administratively. It is therefore necessary in the activities related to environmental pollution in order to install a system of market mechanisms, in principle, a pay polluter. This implies that the contaminant shall bear the costs of pollution and damage compensation, and in the case of pollution, the norm must be correctly established on the basis of this standard to be assessed. As the level of pollution tax will vary, above all, from the amount of environmental pollution, in this way we can create a stimulant for contaminants, in the sense that the less polluting the environment, the less the tax will be. We need to lead to the ultimate goal, which is to reduce the degree of environmental pollution, because its continued use will make economical use more rational, not polluting the environment. This requires a double system, i.e. the introduction of a system of penalties, where there is great damage and, secondly, subsidies, or preventive action, to stimulate contaminants for a better quality new relationship with environmental pollution. So, through penalties and fees and taxes, we can introduce stimulating measures, subsidies for companies that have taken measures to reduce environmental threats, as well as financial assistance in terms of reconciliation of obligations at a longer time interval, i.e. Tax relief. The minister will likely put the second law on the agenda, when it comes to managing national parks, but it is not appropriate to comment on a few sentences, since the 1993 National Parks Act defined five national parks: Kopalnik, Tara, Fruska Gora, Shar Mountains and Đerdap. These national parks are managed by public undertakings whose rights and obligations are, I will not be taxing everything, just a few of them: the protection and development of national parks, the care of various types of space use, the way and conditions of use of natural goods, the use of the natural goods they manage, the consent to carry out scientific research; and, among other things, public enterprises, i.e. managers, can perform and manage forests, the protection of cultivation, improvement and use of hunting and fishing fauna, implementation and introduction of protection regimes etc. Just from what I've taxed, the entire national park is owned by only one company that manages the plans and programmes of protection, development and promotion of the national park, based on the National Parks Act, so it carries out all economic activities in the national park. There are two actions that are incompatible. Such an organization involves incompleteness in work, intricacies, and therefore it is necessary to fully separate these two actions. As a result, the SRS concept of a public undertaking that manages a national park would exclusively deal with the activities involved in protecting and improving the protection of national parks. What is the problem in Serbia, it is certainly dangerous and industrial waste. The problem of hazardous waste and its expansion in the environment, the National Assembly tried to resolve the 1992 Law on the Protection of the Environment by obliging factories to store it all in one of their production circles. Obviously, that didn't work out very well for some of the results. This requires that this variant be adapted and, above all, formed so-called. A cemetery for hazardous waste and that one part of that industrial waste should certainly be destroyed by neutralising or burning, and that part of the waste, that's a small part of the waste, which can be recycled, re-entered into the process of production. That is why it is recommended that the SRS make a deal with the Serbia-Montenegro Army to find the best locations to deposit such waste and make priorities for depositing such waste at the found location. Communal waste is today the biggest problem in protecting the environment, especially when it comes to the construction of the dump, and the problem in Leskovac was when the president of the municipality was Mr. Zivkovic, now the DS MP, when they found the location, took care of all possible building permits and eventually that Željkovac did not live. Obviously, the problem was inside the DS because their carrier of all functions then blocked it, and now there is this problem in Leskovac about dump and municipal waste. Therefore, above all, it is necessary to remove these wastes, to recycle glass, paper, metal and plastics, to perform separation, such application exists in Hungary, Slovakia and other medium-developed countries. Another option, through the resolution of municipal waste, we see it through concessions for municipal waste, although these prices would be higher, would raise the prices of municipal services, which may not be acceptable for most of the population in this situation. Animal waste, which is important, because the uncontrollable disposal of dead animals and waste from industries, as well as a large amount of quality organic matter that can be processed by technological processes as livestock feed, is not used enough. It is necessary to make regional callilries in order to solve this problem. Biomass, which former Ecology Minister Branislav Blazic drew attention to, which is insufficient use of biomass potential, requires more quality organic matter to be destroyed, primarily because there is uncontrollable burning in fields, settlements, especially during the fall. That's why there are two ways to do it. It's briquettes and mass implementation. There is a project which won eight hundred patents in Brussels at the fair in 1992, and the patent needs to be further developed, and the exploitation of biomass is done through the production of hummus. Since I am already being warned on time, it is necessary for air pollution and clean fuels, there is a basic strategy, above all, because of the increased concentration of heavy metals. It is necessary to support an initiative to produce an industrial alcohol of 98%, which can be added 15% to gasoline, primarily from corn, because it is provided at 2.6 kilograms of corn one liter and that is 98% of ethanol, so one kilogram of livestock food. When we know 5% of the corn is destroyed by rodents, this can be used. There's also a concession on certain protection of life, and we'll do it later, because I see that the Secretary of Parliament's group is impatient to finish my presentation, and I have a lot to say, it's not my fault that they put me in the end, but I have to say a few sentences about environmental education. In any case, the SRS advocates the concept of permanent education to protect the environment from pre-school age to the third age, and this should in particular refer to policy decision makers, although I must commend both the former and the current government, because it is really working on human education. At the time of Minister Branislav Blazic, Mayor of Kickinda, there were only 60 employees at the Ministry, and now you have 300, these are obviously young personnel, educate them at the Ministry, immediately put them to work here and transfer your knowledge to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9819	The word has the People's MP Boris Karaicic, and let MP Zoran Antic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9820	I, like my colleague, got my word at the end of my day. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9821	Excuse me, end of business hours is at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9822	First of all, my compliments to this bill set of laws, which is really a step forward in this area, which is just like the others very much abandoned in our country. Two things are important to me when it comes to this set of laws, that is, respecting the right of individuals to a healthy environment, i.e. the environment, and that right is guaranteed by a large number of conventions that exist both in our country and in the world. Another thing that is very important and that is respected by these laws, is that economic development must go in parallel with protecting the environment. In fact, when it comes to world standards and everything that's going on in the world, not just when it comes to agenda 21, we're really serious about this area. We're coughing politically, economically, and we're also coughing in terms of awareness of this problem. In Western Europe, in 1980, it was marked by ecological movements, and even parties were created because the environmental problem became so important and significant that it affected the mood in society and politics. I say, we're coughing about this, because we've had an accident that in the past 15 years it's always been a question or -- or. So either we're going to commit ourselves to preserving the environment at the heart of economic development, or we're going to neglect the economy to preserve the environment. It's a question that's being raised in all underdeveloped countries, when you're simply unable to have enough production levels to provide enough oil or something else, while at the same time protecting the environment. There is a question of money, and this law puts it a little bit better than before. So we have to see that the citizens in that direction are being directed, that the environment isn't just what the waste or some communal activity is, but really everything that affects my, your life on a daily basis, and we're not even aware of it. So when you have the production of certain goods, let's say in some cities in Serbia, such as copper in Bor or oil in Panchev, we are not able as a state to solve this problem adequately, to reduce the emissions of harmful gases that occur while maintaining a sufficient level of production. This law, where monitoring is being resolved, this question is being asked differently. In fact, it is a major shift in this area, when special institutions will be tasked with monitoring the movement, that is, the state of the environment, and in time to warn of possible environmental consequences. Furthermore, I have already mentioned some cities such as Bor or Panchevo, we have a problem with Užica and Valjevo, and during the winter period, especially when heats work with great intensity, have a problem with increased levels of soot in the air, and this problem is often solved in our circumstances so that, if the wind is favourable then there is less, and if it is not a favourable wind state, if it does not blow the wind, then it has an increased volume. One solution that is imposed when it comes to the town of Uzice is the pipeline and would solve the issue of pollution in the city, but the municipality cannot solve it itself from its own resources. That's why I urge the Republic to help solve this problem as soon as possible. The primary part is already finished, the secondary part of the pipeline is important. So when that part is solved, it's not just an improved state of heat and heating, but it solves an important issue of the environment. So, our citizens still don't have enough awareness of how much it means when we save the land, air, water, it's just being noticed, as a rule, when there's been a disturbance, some problem, and we run out of what was until yesterday to reach our hands. So, my appeal is for citizens to get better education on the subject, to leave thinking that waste disposal is a question of environmental protection. It's a question of education and culture, and a minor issue of environmental protection, and to pay attention that, therefore, where they can help to live in a cleaner environment, and it's not us, because we often think that only we have clean air, clean land, food, healthy food, we are not the only ones who have it, but we have the advantages and others have no such advantages, so, given the various circumstances of the last 15 years, we've lost industry, but it's reflected favourably because we've polluted the environment less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9823	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Boris Karaicic. Shall we take a break? We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15.55]] Okay. To determine the quorum. We have a quorum. We're continuing our work. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to take part in the afternoon, and to God on Friday afternoon, we hear a lot of complaints from the MPs about the work of local self-government and a lot of problems in their environments when it comes to the environment. It is obvious that local self-government is not ready to fully implement this previous Environmental Protection Act, and it seems to me that too much authority has been given to local self-government and too much is expected of them. Maybe that's what's going to be the biggest problem in implementing this law in practice. The fact is that local self-government, according to the bill, really has a great obligation to do a lot of work within the next year so that this law could really live. Local self-governments have an obligation, I would say, that the offices, the spatial-urbanist plan, to carry out a strategic impact assessment, to introduce specific measures in situations of immediate danger, to declare the state of danger, to bring plans, local, action and recovery plans, to provide environmental control and monitoring, to provide financial resources. A large number of obligations fall on the burden of local self-government and I don't think they'll be able to respond to that obligation. In any case, I would like to welcome the fact that the Ministry, along with this Law on the Protection of the Environment, has prepared three accompanying laws, which will contribute greatly to prevention and point to the path the ministry intends to go in the future, but it seems to me that the law lacks what is important: the supervision of the Ministry of Local Self-Government will make it very difficult to work on the ground. We'll be able to check the effects of this law in a year. It seems to me he's going to be much smaller than he seems at this point. What I still wanted to say in this five-minute exposure, I think there's been a serious mistake in environmental pollution compensation. I think Mr. Blazic had a very good solution, which involved a sliding scale that would be much more stimulating for private entrepreneurs. What you have amended in article 85, I have heard that you have accepted one of the amendments to make up for 60% of the compensation to local self-government, which is fine, given the obligations that local self-government has in implementing this law. But what's very bad is in the members of 86th and 87th, discretionary rights of both governments and local self-government to voluntarily determine how to pay and any relief, the criteria of payment obligations are prescribed by the units of local self-government. As far as the government is concerned, I'm more or less counting on it to be correct, but when it comes to local self-government, we really come into a situation where these provisions encourage corruption and that private entrepreneurs or businesses are not in the same situation, and I don't think these provisions should be in the law, because they are contrary to the definition of fighting corruption in all institutions. I think the law itself is full of institutions. I was able to count eight. So, recycling agency, environmental protection agency, environmental protection agency, environmental protection fund, ministry, government, local self-government, there are too many institutions, their responsibilities and obligations are not clearly defined by this law. It was the Environment Protection Agency and the Environmental Protection Fund, and the Bogos and the Recycling Agency could fall under one institution. This gives me the impression that when it comes to environmental protection, the Ministry is poorly organized and does not contribute to a clear concept of environmental protection. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I'd say only a few words, that it's almost incredible that in Articles 119, 120 and 121, in a fine of between five and 20,000 or 30 days in prison, you've punished a physical person for destroying flora and fauna, destroying the habitat. In addition, in Article 120 of the accredited assessor who does not provide data on the implementation and verification of EMAS, as well as the punishment for the offence of the responsible person in the competent authority. I think the sentences are too small and they kind of put offenders in a situation that they're not even punished. Penalty policy was supposed to be much more severe and that through criminal policy, we would get into a situation where no one knowingly engages in a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9826	The word is by MP Vladan Jovicic, and for discussion to prepare Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9827	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, we have before us this set of laws that we are considering in a united debate and, in some sense, it is not a very difficult word, there is one of the fundamental laws precisely because after its adoption, there remains room for almost every ministry that is in the composition of not only this one but also the future governments of Serbia not to be able to pass any legal solutions without implementing the provisions of this law in its solutions. The practical proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, as well as the environmental impact assessment, is based on the European Community Directives 96/61 since 24 October 1996. Then, by EU directives, the IPPC Directive, BAT, i.e. to apply the best technologies, as well as the Regulation on the construction and analysis of the impact of objects and works on the environment of SEGRS 62/92. In addition, we also have in the provisions of the law that so far proposed laws in the previous two anemic attempts to adopt some legal solutions, unlike those we have since 1991. They have one aspect of economic activity, i.e. investment in addressing the problem of environmental protection, and can be greater than the basic and current values, plants or facilities, and have in mind the conditions for the conservation and rational use of natural resources, and in particular the reserves of water and energy raw materials. I said before, it must be implemented in future legal mining and defined through that area. We also have in mind the prevention of the transfer of dirty economies and environmentally inefficient plants, the reduction of emissions from the atmosphere, the reduction of waste and the increase of re-use rates by processing and recycling. Preventing uncontrollable emissions of polluting matter continues to degrade the environment, which determines the monitoring that here is one huge shift. Recovering polluted parts of the environment and degraded space, preserving natural ecosystems and biodiversity, integrated water, air and land protection, complex matter. To ensure these conditions and to establish an integrated environmental management system, or not to play here with rhetorical dictionaries, is it just about protecting the environment, it's about environmental management. The law also provides for the application of ISO 1401. All major business entities and organisations, as well as the work of municipal authorities, and for which members of the laws provide for education and training by the Ministries, have been provided with funds for the same. In this respect, it is necessary to strengthen the professional services responsible for the protection of the environment in municipalities and other major economic operators, i.e. to establish them where they do not exist. It is necessary to form inter-municipal information systems so that the rapid depletion of non-renewable resources, raw materials, as well as continuous degradation of the environment will result in a lack of protection to substitute and allow for the reprocessing of deficit raw materials. This is the application of technology, i.e. it is the obligation of all entities, and especially of larger entities in society, that, in addition to environmental protection, we are also engaged in valorisation, i.e. by applying such technological solutions when we can, as a poor society, compensate for all costs incurred on inadequate technologies. Therefore, the ecological criteria and criteria of sustainable development need to be more significant than so far that they are represented in the planning of the overall development of the organisation and association of space and will have a decisive impact on the choice of objectives and solutions and priorities. With clearly established monitoring, overall integration and use of telecommunications systems and at all information systems interconnecting and connecting them, we will reduce this time distance between environments that have not been sufficiently considered so far. These black holes in Serbia are well known where we have a problem with already largely subsidized environmental conditions that conclude and seek certain increased attention that we have not had to use so far. My predecessors talked about the environments they came from. In the middle I come from, you have that the children of the inhabited town of Hots are unable to maintain their physical activity in the given norms. In any case, this implies that the proposal of this law, which implements in itself quite sufficient and concrete measures, and as stated above, the polluter pays and will have to bear all responsibility for what is happening. By doing so, we will overcome problems that we ourselves are unable to resolve without certain criteria, I apologize to everyone, dear colleagues, I believe that we are all tired, not only are we before us the provisions of laws concerning the sole competent ministry that proposed these laws. We will meet through all the following solutions if, and I'm sure, with great consensus, we adopt such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9828	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it was absolutely unacceptable for us to ask for a novice, Mr. Albianic, to unite this agenda point, because it is a very important topic. It is also closely linked to the living standard of people, to the economy and to sustainable development, which many citizens do not know what it means in the right sense, and very often that term is mentioned. Citizens are sent messages that economies and economic flows should be in one accord with the environment and our environment. Fortunately, in addition to what our people have experienced through the accident that hit us in 1999, we are still a healthy nation with a healthy climate, with healthy earth, air, very rich water resources. If you're already talking about sustainable development, then I'd be a priority, which is the biggest pain of many local self-government, just to point out water as a necessary resource for sustainable development, which is not a problem for us in the country, but in this area a lot of things should be improved and this should be dealt with by local self-government units. This really is a very broad topic. The law is written in some book sense, so to speak, the terms are defined, and our underlying objections are to Articles 86 and 87 when it comes to fees that local self-government units can provide. What units of local self-government, all of which should be encouraged to do, is the authority that needs to care, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the ministry, do not work, because it all comes down to empty pre-election promises. Rest assured, in municipalities and cities where Serbian radicals won the final elections, it will not remain just promises. Here, on the case in Kikinda and the mayor of Kikinda, Mr Blazic, who was the Minister for Environmental Protection and other cities, you will see that we will pay great attention to this segment. Why do I tell you that, Mr. Minister? I am telling you this because you, just like those who support this law, forgot to say one very important thing, and to refer local self-government to their purpose, in addition to the development of municipal infrastructure, in addition to the jobs that the law has given to jurisdiction, that they should follow the path that was defined in 1992 at the World Summit in Rio de Janeiro, when Agenda 21 was adopted and when all countries in the world who want to take care of their population's health, about the development of their municipalities, gave a clear indication that they have to do local agendas. If you are now a minister for nine months, I assume you have no clear insight at all, and especially since you have a broad ministry, it is not strictly related to environmental protection only, how many units of local self-government that have defined local agendas and how do you define the concepts and ways of solving environmental issues, environmental improvements and others? These basic, key environmental problems, for human health and life, primarily children's health, which is why we need to preserve our eco-systems, improve them, and, by following all flows, from a position of economic development that is not present in our country, protect the environment. The key jobs are the unscheduledness of local authorities, the greatest pain towards our population. You know, Mr. Minister, that a mild-spoken incident occurred in Omoljica and that by the day today, as far as I know, no company has been identified that in the canal of the mollusc dump poured out a huge waste that is very dangerous to people's health. Not to mention that your government, as well as your ministry, above all, the diametrically from the Serbian radicals, were presented by representatives of those parties who disagree with us, did nothing to help municipalities and cities. And there are three key problems, these are Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, and as far as our southern provinces are concerned, although those of the DS are not affected at all, because their president has called on Serbs to go to the occupation elections, not to worry about what conditions they live in, that I am not talking about the occupied area where the biggest problem is Kosovo Pomoravlje, and it is not about air bombs, the consequences of unsuspecting NATO aggression, that even today these municipalities and these cities have only some kind of help from some NGOs, and not the help of the state in the right sense of words. It occurred to someone else, no less than the foreign minister, to ask us to drop the charges against the NATO pact. It is indeed a scandal, and if on that occasion we do not show how much we care about the health of people, if we do not remember that unfortunate woman who remained to live on her hearth in the village of Klokot in Kosovo Pomoravlje, who came out of her field a year and a half ago and was killed by one such mine, then we cannot talk about world flows, trends, harmonisation of the law and what are the key problems for our country and our people. We can, i.e. you can do this, declare that you are in favour of improving conditions and living and work, when it comes to ecology and when it comes to what the government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of, but we are free of all that if there is no money. You know that the sustainable development that must be, and nature and economic flows, requires that citizens have, above all, a standard of living, so that they can protect themselves from various environmental impacts and everything they experience daily in the environments they live in. People in cities and municipalities, in municipalities where radicals have taken over, will change it very quickly, have no way, have no rain sewers, have no sewers in the 21st century. The gentleman who's your deputy or assistant is that funny, but that's really sad. In Kragujevac, in the city where I come from, there are 22 settlements in the 21st century that have no plumbing, no rain canals, which is what to talk about. You are still looking for a member of the 87th law to provide opportunities for local taxes to improve the environment and protect the population in addition to all these incomes collected by local self-government units. What is the biggest problem for this government and for your ministry, for the field of environmental science, for any area, for the economy, for social policy, is the lack of existence, because the government was built up like that, collected from the stakes and ropes, the absence of a national strategy, what should be done and when it comes to ecology. That's why there's a lot of problems in this area, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9830	I thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The People's MP Branka Bosnjak has the word, and for discussion, let the MP Milos Disic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9831	Dear President, Mr Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People, we have before us a set of laws in the field of protection and promotion of the environment and, unfortunately, our country is one of the last to regulate the legal area in Europe. This area has so far been governed by the 1991 law, a large set of regulations and regulations that have been in the jurisdiction of various state institutions, businesses and services, and because of such a large number of regulations, it has been difficult to implement and control this area effectively. Such unregulated legislation has resulted in unsanitary pollution of water and air, uncontrolled exploitation of forests and other economic resources, endangering human health by the absence of a waste disposal and recycling system, excessive air pollution by motor vehicles, free operation of noise operations, construction of highways without adequate protection towards settlement, working with hazardous materials and transporting them, risk of harmful radiation sources, etc. A set of laws ahead of us foresee preventive measures in the field of environmental protection implemented through spatial plans, through the evaluation of the adverse impacts of new technologies, new development projects and reconstruction of existing systems, through control and prevention of pollution and through a timely assessment of the dangers of accidents. In order for protection to be effectively implemented, it is necessary to prescribe standards of quality of the environment. The limit values of all sources of pollution must be established. These values must be measured regularly and the public must be informed in due time for effective protection. The law provides for preventive measures to protect against hazardous substances and other pollutions, which are – rules are defined in the areas of production and transport of dangerous substances in the territory of the Republic, prohibiting production that threatens the environment, such as substances that threaten the ozone layer, prescribe rules in the areas of imports, exports and transport of harmful and dangerous wastes, and define control over their application, at all levels, republican, provinceal and local self-government. The special quality of these laws is that they foresee a unique information system in the field of environmental protection, as well as the availability of all information. They guarantee public participation in the decision-making process, where all strategic and spatial plans are placed on public insight, analysis and objections. But the most important contribution of all these laws, which together define the responsibility of environmental pollutants, environmental surveillance through the powers and obligations of inspection services, and, most importantly, provide sanctions for offenders. The law clearly determines who possible violations of the law and also determines fines and prison sentences, depending on the severity of the violations. The G17 Plus Party will support these laws, as they bring us closer to the European Union, but more importantly, these laws prove that this government has a strategy for planning measures to protect the environment, has the concept of implementing these measures, but also the courage to sanction all offenders and ultimately, without pathetics, I think it's high time for the Obrenovac children to know that the snow is white and not gray. So I ask you to support these laws and vote for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9832	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, MP Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9833	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am reporting for the third or fourth time to the same occasion, which is the use of non-Serb words in the National Assembly. The previous speaker used it, it's not the only one, I just used it as a reason, I used the term – set of laws. That's what others noticed. That's why I'm reacting now. What set, first set, second set? Please, I appeal to speak our Serbian language, which the citizens of Serbia understand. The word "set" means something. If we're talking about a set of laws, we should talk about a group of laws or use an adequate term. I think it is clear that a certain body should be formed in the Assembly to take care of what can be entered into the act and to take care of the protection of the Serbian language. The greatest defense and protection of one nation is its culture, or language.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9834	Replica, Mrs. Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9835	Right on the line, I feel like a previous pay phone or a pay phone. I'd like to ask an esteemed colleague whose word is "appella"?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9836	The People's Messenger Milos Disic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9837	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, these laws regulate the system of environmental protection, which provides for human rights to life and development in a healthy environment, and if so, we know that this is also the first set of laws in this area in the Republic of Serbia, then, gentlemen, these laws had to favour local self-government, because it is the local self-government that should be the main holder of these laws. It's tried somewhat to implement it in this law, but I don't think that's enough. I don't know why the government is ashamed or afraid of giving more responsibility to local self-government and the government being the head controller in implementing this law. Is it because of the financial resources that would belong in this case to local self-government or perhaps because of the concern that local self-government won't be able to do it all the way? Since local self-government, as well as the provinces and republics, must have their own environmental protection programme, in that case there must be more trust in them. There can be no greater environmental guards than the citizens themselves and those who implement the Law on the Protection of the Environment in the field, and that is exactly what local self-government, together with the Republic, means to monitor the quality of environmental protection, the first information comes from both the field and the local environment. As far as this law is concerned, I think this is an attempt to make the first good law in this area, that it's a start, but there's a lot of shortages. One of the first shortcomings is in the environmental protection system subject, which in one part is given responsibility to the provinces, which can obviously be an obstacle to local self-government and to the Republic from the part of the distribution of funds from funds and interventions on the ground in the event of accidents and disasters caused by natural causes or if man challenges them. Since all the burden falls on local self-government and in the resolution of these consequences, we think that the advantage over the province must be given to local units. I believe that this law should have put the province out as a subject of environmental protection. Since we know that this is impossible because of the omnibus law that provides for the provinces, and this law was passed at the time of the worst touch power until today, a law that would live long, with perhaps little corrections if necessary, so that the core of the law is unchanged. You could have done this and had the support of the Serbian Radical Party and co-operation with them. The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party in the Committee on the Protection of the Environment were constructive and worked in the interest of both this law and the Republic of Serbia, and all in order to reach as high-quality law as possible, and we will be ready to co-operate at any moment regarding this law. The law not enough to pay attention to youth education and I don't think the ministry has a clear concept in that part, and this is extremely important because citizens' awareness must be greater and stronger than the law, and only so will this law be successfully implemented. We must no longer be allowed to be operated locally by some associations of citizens, as far as this law is concerned and the preservation of the environment. I'm not saying that there shouldn't be an association of citizens, just to monitor control, but not that the main projects and the main laws in that area are brought by people who have no quality or are not experts in these areas. We have an example of the Indji municipality, where there are different people in these places, but certainly no experts in these areas, so different negatives appear and happen on this issue. As environmental protection is being given more and more attention in the world, it is also necessary to submit a report on the realization and protection of the environment each year. We have here that an amendment has been adopted, earlier in the text of the law has been envisaged for two years, and now it's been changed by amendment, so I wouldn't comment on that part here, but I did this before the amendment came. This law gives insufficient attention and protects water. We know that our waters are polluted and impoverished by the living world. Uncontrollable catches have been allowed in an illegal manner (electricity, bombs and natural gas to gas bottles), and those caught in poaching treasure are treated, fines are small or even bribed water keepers and all such treasure ends. So in this area we should have more rigorous control of the water pollutants themselves, whatever they are. You may not be able to protect the waters and forests with this law, because they're being bossed by others, so responsibility doesn't exactly belong to this ministry, but yet the government has to find some consensus and agree who would have to be the one to control all this. You, as Government, had to agree on that part of responsibility, and all in order to be effective in preserving the wealth of water and forests that exist. Let's take an example of the Vojvodina, when it comes to the Vojvodina and the water situation is very criminal. Let me just point out, not to forget, the bird hunt and their export to Italy, and a former minister has been caught in such dirty shops, but we have no record of what kind of punishment this gentleman has earned, although it must have happened, that the public knows. We're getting unplanned cuts and no one's answering, and this law hardly paid any attention to it. It's gonna happen that we're gonna have catastrophic erosions. Therefore, we would have to pay greater attention to this. I was born in Kopalnik, where I saw a series of such examples, that the woods really intersect without being reported, means "unplanned." We'll pay an expensive price for it all someday. If that didn't happen, we'd have to pay attention. This is where funds and agencies are set up. The SRS is against the establishment of every agency. We believe that this extra dinar, belonging to the agencies, could be used to be a purely ecological dinar, to transfer, and that what the agency would do is done by inspectors and the ministry. I'd just like to say to the inspector's office that we really should be here, not as it is happening now in local self-government, to see real experts from these areas. We know that there are few in the state, but at least where there are, the ministry would have to take control of people like that to work. I want to tell you an example from India. We have a graduate environmentalist who can't get a job and has been rejected multiple times in competitions, and I don't know if you have that information that was received, I think even some teachers, teachers from any area. You should make sure in that direction that no different people in different areas do to us what they can never do in private life or think.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9838	The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin has the word, and if there is no time left, then the MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've received a law on environmental protection, which comes in time. It should have arrived before, but given what the president of Serbia said, we will be in Europe in 2017. We've got time, we'll probably be supplementing this law more than once and more. Article 4 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment says that the system of environmental protection, within its powers, provides for the Republic, an autonomous province, municipalities, or city, enterprises, other domestic and foreign legal persons, citizens, groups of citizens and their associations. I understand all of this, but going through Serbia, we're coming across wild garbage dumps and we're coming across something that we shouldn't come across, considering this Serbia as an ecological state, which we were until 1999, until NATO did to us what it did to us and sent us a little more of the poor uranium. However, as it stands here, in its powers, the AP is also required by one of the factors that should prevent environmental disaster. And with DOS coming to power, already in 2001 and 2002, a cutting forest and destruction began in Vojvodina and that protective belt that provided inhabited areas and water streams to avoid some erosion. As Chanka arrives, I can tell you, I live in a beautiful place and in one year they managed to cut down the forest, in fact, the oxygen factory. We know of Vojvodina that one part of Serbia, which is not too shambled, is in fact not as percentage or minimally forested as it should be, probably according to some European standards. In fact, I couldn't talk about the environmental law without mentioning the Middle Banatian district, the Zrenjanin municipality and the place of Elemir, where the famous synthetic rubber factory, where I, as a national MP, together with a certain group of people, managed to prevent Mr. Tresac, director of Petrochemy from building a factory known in the people, a people's language called "Chardar" or a carbon charge factory. I had a chance to see pictures of a populated place in Romania. It's really a disaster. The sheep are black, the roofs are black, the people are black and, believe me, they don't know what white, gray and green mean. Therefore, the ministry would have to make sure that this ecological state, specifically indicated by the EU, and would probably still be if NATO aggression hadn't been committed in 1999, but you must also force local self-government to take care of this, because this says that around ten municipalities do not have an environmental inspector. Gentlemen, we can't go to Europe, we can't meet Europe's demand if we simply don't meet that 10% and send inspectors there, because it's very important to protect the environment. There is much talk about this law, however, it is important that we all understand that this law must be implemented, that you must implement it, and with you to be carried out by all those factors that make up this state, which is the AP and there are municipalities, businesses and human factors. Therefore, this set of laws should be supported, simply, if it were implemented as it is and how you write here, then it would have some purpose, and without it we wouldn't be able to carry it out until the end. I hope you will have an impact on the gentleman from the Provincial Government, Mr. Chanka, who is the chairman of the Management Board of the "Vojvodina Forests" and who has begun to cut his heart out, the forests in Vojvodina are cut abnormally, and you would have to prevent it together as the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9840	Before Mr. Jojic, just a five-minute word to Dobric Jankovic, who wasn't there. We agreed five minutes the most, please, mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9841	Mr. President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, should not be missed when the topic of the environment is, even if we repeat, that it is the obligation of this home to look, and in deciding how to define ourselves according to the laws that are ahead of us, that in detail and in terms of making a better relationship with the public, shows understanding for a moment, of the situation and of the situation in our country and, accordingly, in the area of legislation when it comes to the same topic. On the other hand, where the EU is, therefore, the environment, on the first point, in real life when it comes to legislation. If we take a good look at it, if we understand the differences on one side and on the other, then we will be able to properly determine whether we are going to vote for these proposed laws as offered or not. In that sense, I would say that the area of the environment in these laws is a prerequisite for our harmonisation and EU accession. When we ask it that way and when we look at these questions that way, we should say that three legislative proposals, which are previously set out as rules, fully take their place in the areas they deal with. The fourth law that remains almost fully, therefore, represents the same thing. Because I say almost fully, because 80% represents what was already the subject of the debate here, the part that we insist on is left out, which is a balanced use of the environment. Almost all of the DS amendments that have been submitted relate to the coverage of the piece which makes a difference in our assessment. So, that the laws that regulate this area do not bring the environment to exploitation when it comes to resources, but to their balanced use or what Europe is already doing, which is the development of these resources. If we balance our relationship with these resources, we'll come into a situation where we don't spend too much and too much time, not to get caught up in a situation where in some places we've exhausted our reserves, whatever it is, it's going to develop into something that will eventually get the frameworks of what this home needs to worry about, and that's a strategy in that area. Therefore, I will repeat, the DS will vote in favour of this law, i.e. I mean all four proposed, but with a serious indication and an emphasis on this part of what I was talking about, that it is necessary to make a good assessment of the amendments as they are directed, and they are as a group of amendments conceived in that direction, therefore, that they go from exploitation to balanced use of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9842	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, and this is the last registered speaker in the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9843	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by proposing these laws by the government, I've seen one fact, and you all see it. So, from the bombing of the SRJ to today by the NATO pact countries, which in the state of Serbia, i.e. SRJ, threw 22.5 thousand tons of destructive explosives with poisons, no one could believe that idiots from the West would be free to say idiots from the West, who have fallen to the SRJ, against our country to wage a chemical war. No one could believe from citizens in Panchev that between April 14 and 15, 1999, the enemy would throw about 80 tons of devastating explosives, even with tape bombs enriched with poor uranium. Ladies and gentlemen, when I talk about this, I want to speak with full indignation because in Panchev, what happens annually in no city, and that is to die annually, according to all the statistics and research by many medical institutions in our country, 1,500 citizens, including children, women and men. In Panchev, environmental tax has been seduced, and the citizens of Pancheva do not know where half a billion of the money is collected from citizens, i.e. companies and companies paying the environmental tax. I'm asking if it's possible, and I'm also informing the Ministry of Ecology to check the environmental protection and improvement bill in Subotica No 840714562843-56, whether by chance the funds were intended for one part of the ecology went to this gyro-account. When SRS lawmakers asked the question two months ago why the citizens were moving out of Pančevo, because there was a huge amount of air concentrate in the refinery and Petrochemia, the ministry and the government intervened and it has been determined so far by the inspection and the government that four places have experienced leaks of certain harmful substances, which have caused a number of consequences for the citizens of Pancheva, especially the settlements of Vojlovica, Topola, the Rural Centre and beyond, where some 150,000 inhabitants live. I don't know, but I'd like someone to convince me and give me the information, although there is a crime in our criminal law in the field of environmental science, whether any punishment has been imposed on any responsible person. I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to call public prosecutors, courts and police what they're doing. Did the police file criminal charges, did the public prosecutor get a criminal report, did he file a request for an investigation against the responsible person and the director or not? If not, there's no place for that DA to go. Therefore, without criminal responsibility, it is for free to prescribe any norms. I hope that the Ministry of Ecology, headed by Minister Popovic, will be more energetic, and must be more energetic and take certain measures to counter these irresponsible business executives, especially when it comes to the refinery and the chemical industry. The chemical industry in Panchev has seven factories that produce extremely severe life - threatening toxins. Panchevo is a black spot in Europe. Here's a postcard of Pancheva, what Pancheva looks like sometimes and what it looked like right after the bombing. From these powers of the West, our government must claim damages. It must not be bypassed, nor must it be forgiven to the idiots of the West for which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of our citizens have suffered the consequences, and only after the consequences of decades and centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9844	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Proposal for a Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the Proposal for a Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment. We continue to work towards the agenda and move on to considering the bill on environmental impact assessment in particular. You have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by MP Pai Momchilov. You have received reports from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the table of amendments. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on environmental impact assessment has also been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Aleksandar Popovic, the minister of science and environmental protection, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – The draft law on strategic environmental impact assessment (specificities) has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on strategic environmental impact assessment has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution (separation) you have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Just one notice, at 1700 hours, is the Finance Committee on the first six points of these financial laws. We are moving to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Life Centres (Statistics) You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gordana Čomić, Milan Stanimirović, Miloje Savić, Radiša Ilic, Milorad Mirčić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Igor Mirović, Milos Dišić, Srdjo Komazec, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Vjerica Radeta. You have received an amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia pursuant to Article 144. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Committee on Environmental Protection, with an amendment submitted by the Committee pursuant to Article 135(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on amendments submitted to the draft law with a correction of 3 December 2004. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the protection of the environment has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is wanted by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9845	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, before I move on to the amendment, I would like to thank the citizens of Serbia who have understood the concern of the resources of DS-Boris Tadic MPs, such as this story of a quarry in Frusk Mountain that has also been heard of this speaker. The environment is not a party matter, and that is why DS through these amendments wants to fix what was left out in the environmental law and to continue continuity, as the minister pointed out in his statement during the principle debate. So, MP Gordana Comic, on behalf of DS-Boris Tadic, submitted an amendment to the bill. Instead of "the environmental law" should stand for "the environmental protection system law". The term "environmental protection" corresponds to a level of environmental management that does not take into account the recovery and improvement of the environment, as well as a system of the environment within the framework of the concept of sustainable development. Moreover, from the basic provisions of the bill's proposal, it is the subject of the regulation of the environmental protection system, and this is another argument more to accept this amendment. The bill's promoter says it regulates the environmental protection system, and gives the title of the environmental law, so that the change in the title of Serbian citizens would make them think that this government had drafted the law, and we were aware during the principle debate that about 80% of the text in the previous law was actually copied. In addition to a hundred percent copy of the three legal texts, where the rules have been converted into legal proposals, 80% of the text has been prescribed the basic text it has prepared, and the current minister has confirmed this during Friday's debate. I propose that this amendment be adopted and that the name of the law be changed in the bill on the environmental protection system, on behalf of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9846	Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9847	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this amendment is concerned, the Government does not accept it, and here's a reason. The reasons are contained in Articles 2 and 11. Article 2 says – the environmental protection system consists of measures, conditions and instruments for sustainable management, conservation of natural balance, integrity, diversity and quality of natural values and conditions for the survival of all living things, prevention, control, reduction and resolution of all forms of environmental pollution. Sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection are achieved in accordance with this law and special law. Article 10 states that sustainable management of economic values and protection of the environment, so what is described in Article 2, is governed by this law, by specific laws and by other regulations which are regulated, and now goes, an assessment of the impact of plans, integrated pollution prevention, nature protection, air protection, water, land, forest, geological resources. This isn't the law on environmental protection. This and other laws will constitute a system of environmental protection. Accordingly, this cannot be the law that prescribes the protection system, because the protection system prescribes this and other laws. It would be too pretentious if this law were called. I tried not to use it in this debate. You heard, there were mentions and fights of vanity on Friday. Today, stubbornness was discussed, and copying is now mentioned. It's true, on Friday, I said I don't believe in the revolution, that I believe that every government and every government should continue the good things that the previous one has done, that it should not continue with the bad things that have been done and that according to this, the good part of this law is the law that has been prepared for the previous three years by the previous government. Today, it is also said, by a parliamentary group belonging to the esteemed Mr Stanimirovic, that at this point in Serbia, the concept of the 1970 law is in force. If during the last decade of the 20th century this country could not radically change and improve its legislation and bring it closer to the EU, I wonder why the government was elected on 3 March 2004, after three years, to wait for 1970 legislation. I don't have an answer to that question. I think those who talked about it need to know the answer. In the end, let's break the 2002 law story once. Most of the amendments tabled by the party and the parliamentary group of Mr Stanimirovic are precisely amendments that this law should make more or less into the 2002 law. I wouldn't mind that personally, but for a year and a half, that law was in this congregation, it was in this high house, and it didn't go through the congregation procedure. This government, this ministry, I as a minister, do not want to be a Trojan horse and by supporting a majority we are introducing a law that for a year and a half in this assembly could not even achieve minimal consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9848	I'm asking you to just know what we know for sure, if there's no authorship over anything, it's above the law. So, I've never heard of someone who's the author of the law. Here you go. MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9849	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, it is quite true that this law was in the procedure, twice removed from the agenda, that there was an 11 session of the Committee, the committee responsible for reviewing the first, second reading, amendments, projections, expert opinions, etc. It is quite true that almost all the MPs from the previous call have participated in this and it is quite true that someone, for the sake of higher interest, has withdrawn the law twice from the agenda from the procedure at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They owe our citizens an explanation of why it was done. It was necessary to privatise three cements in Serbia and the creamy "Jelen Do" to those who buy this treasure – I am talking about the findings of the laporac and limestone, and not about the rotational furnaces and other things that were purchased in these privatisations – it is guaranteed that at some level of exploitation of what they illegally acquired and bought they do not have to comply with those provisions provided for in the new law that was here in the procedure. It was usually a constant practice of the previous government. The same thing happened in the privatisation of the tobacco industry. First, the excise regulation provides for adequate treatment of action goods, as was the case with cigarettes, and then, in breach of several important principles, the market for the tobacco industry Nis and Vranje Philip Morris and others, prohibits the right to obtain new licences or form new tobacco factories, and it was simply a style, the way the government had functioned that went into history. And that's why it's important here to say that the law here today is not withdrawn from the procedure because there was no political will to be adopted, and the SPS would vote in that government for that law, that's what we spoke publicly at the Committee's sessions. Obviously, there was someone else's interest in doing so in the way it was done and not to accuse today's government and this parliamentary majority of what someone has done, what someone has done with premeditation, because it has agreed to conditions and because it has to be accounted for today and in the future, and it will put them in front of voters, in a way that happens in politics. For the sake of truth, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for all that was happening here, I needed to say it, although it did not exactly refer to the amendment. Mr. President, thank you for your tolerance and for what's been going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9850	Thank you, but I must also warn, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, that I will not allow any further discussion of the amendments in principle. I'm asking that we all take care of it. So, we'll stick to the amendment only. Does anyone else have anything on the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9851	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, I refuse to enter any controversy, and I would like to say that several times here, the DS MPs have stressed that by the laws of the environment we are located where developed countries were in the 1970s, although the laws, which are currently valid, are written in the 1990s. Not guilty, or not guilty, we did not pass the law, but I was the vice president of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment in the previous term and there was indeed a good will to cross these party cargoes, in a way, and it was agreed over 200 amendments to all parliamentary groups, but there was no good will when the agenda was adopted, when the law was to be found on the agenda, and it was not adopted. As far as the law's authorship is concerned, if there were any law-makers, they would turn to some copyright agency and probably get good compensation, Mr. President. Let's get down to business, that's to change. National MP Gordana Comic, on behalf of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to delete the word "economic" in article 1. The word "economic" in the article establishing the subject matter of the law is contrary to the regulations of the European Union COM (98) 333 final (Document from Cardiff), which establishes a strategy for the integration of the environment in the European Union, therefore, into all sectoral policies, not only with economic development, as defined by this member. This is a very essential nature, in contrast with the regulation COM (98) 333 final document, not taking into account a number of documents relating to the integration of the environment into different sectors, energy, fisheries, agriculture, etc. What is changed in this article shows a lack of understanding of modern settings, the need to integrate the environment into all sectoral policies, not just balanced economic development with the environment. What about economic development? What about social policy? It is equally important for Serbian citizens to have a good salary, scholarship, or pension, a healthy family and environment, to breathe clean air, just as important to them that the economy works well. This is the essence of sustainable and sustainable development. This was at a summit on sustainable development, which was held in 2002 in Johannesburg, and was accepted by our country. At that time, the current prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, was there as SRJ president. Then why is the legislator defined differently in this article. Otherwise, by amendment to Article 9 we helped correct the error of defining sustainable development. I appeal for amendment DS-Boris Tadic to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9852	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment proposed by Mrs. Comic? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9853	In Article 2(2), point 2 is replaced by a comma and the words "and other regulations governing the protection of nature, land, forest, game, fish, water, air, mineral raw materials, planning and editing of space, ionizing and non-ionising radiation, noise, chemical management, waste, agriculture, energy, tourism and others." This amendment provides for compliance with the regulation that I was just talking about, COM (98) 333 final document from Cardiff, and other documents relating to the integration of the environment into different sectors, energy, fisheries, agriculture and other. By amendment to Article 2, we have counted what falls within the area of the environment under EU legislation. There are already EU directives on how to integrate the environment into other sectoral policies: agriculture, energy, tourism and others. Under the environment, EU legislation involves sub-chapter: horizontal environmental inclusions in other sectoral policies, including sustainable use of natural resources, and I stress this, in particular, nuclear safety and radioactive waste, water protection and management, air pollution monitoring, noise pollution prevention, chemicals, industrial risk and biotechnology, space, management and efficient use of space, spatial planning, environmental and natural resources, wild fauna and flora protection, wild plants and animals, waste management and clean technology, international co-operation, etc. ecological diplomacy, the implementation of international agreements in the field of environment (SCG signed has over 100 and needs another 30 to sign in order to balance with the EU situation). That is why we propose this in this amendment and propose that this amendment be accepted in order for this harmonisation to proceed as necessary. That would be an improvement in this legal proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9854	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9855	The government does not accept this amendment for the reason it is in Article 10. The bill, and I have already quoted this article and I will not bother you to quote it again, found that "sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection is determined by this law, special laws and other regulations", and there are also practically all areas mentioned in the amendment of the Parliament of the People's Parliament Gordana Komic. That would be duplication and repetition compared to the text that already exists. By the way, this text was literally copied from the first member of the former law, the 2002 law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9856	National MP Rajko Baralic, on the occasion of the same amendment, Gordana Komic, and on the conclusion from Cardiff (98) 333.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9857	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, insistence, always and at every opportunity, on equating our legislation with the European one, can be in some segments and harmful. Recently, we had a situation that the Minister of Health of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, made a statement on the juices intended for Serbian citizens, imported from Slovenia and imported from Fructal juices. He says that the level of radioactivity of these juices is ten times higher than is permitted under our legislation. If we add that EU legislation has this degree of tolerance when it comes to food and when it comes to the problem, then the logical question for each of us is whether the pursuit of such a standard is good for our children and our citizens. It is more important to me to have a critical approach and more important to what contributes to the health of the nation, and above all to our children, so I am not ready to always accept those legal solutions coming from the European Union without any conditions, just because they are from the European Union. Especially if we had, as you said here today, laws that are from the '70s or the '90s. He would always advocate those 1850 solutions if they were to provide the health of food at that level that guarantees health above all our children. That is why I do not think Mr Stanimirovic's approach to this amendment is such that I could plead positive for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9858	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9859	In Article 3 after point 7), five new points are added: 7a - natural goods make up public natural and natural good special values; 7b – public natural well is an unregulated or regulated area or a preserved part of the area, equally accessible to everyone; 7v – natural well-being is a preserved part of the living and non-living nature of the specific values of the diversity, unique and representative, geological, physical-geographical, hydrological, biological, pedological, climate and other significant characteristics of the processing, which makes it a permanent ecological, scientific, cultural, cultural, health-recreative, tourist and other relevant, and therefore enjoys special protection as a good of general interest; 7g – detailed research of underground waters includes research that is carried out to obtain detailed data on the quality and reserves of groundwater, including conditions for their needs; 7data data on natural resources and natural resources; In Article 3(3), point 21 is deleted. Reason - this amendment defines the terms used, i.e. to be used in the law, and does not specify their closer meaning. Therefore, the DS proposes amendments to establish the rules and conditions of sustainable permanent use, rather than the exploitation of natural resources. The DS and Serbian citizens are talking because they say this is a very important issue. We are looking for amendments to establish conditions for sustainable use of resources. So far it's been from case to case, without systematic access. I'm also talking about an amendment to Article 3a, so I don't go out again. Article 3a adds the new title "Sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection", as well as Article 3a, which reads as follows: "Sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection is achieved by making and implementing decisions that ensure the balance between environmental protection and economic development through the integration of environmental protection in all sectoral policies, planning and sustainable use of natural resources, good and energy, the establishment of monitoring, control and improvement of environmental quality, prevention, mitigation and mitigation of adverse environmental impacts and human health, the introduction of energy-efficient technologies and the use of renewable natural resources, integration of economic analyses and environmental protection conditions on a proportionate basis, the establishment of a natural environment and human health system, the promotion of energy-efficient technologies and the use of renewable natural resources, the use of the principles in terms of the environment and the environment, the environment, the implementation of the environment and the environment of the environment, the environment and the environment, the environment, the need to promote and the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment, the environment and the environment and the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment and the environment, the environment, the need to address of the environment and the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and the environment, the need to address and the need to address and the environment, the environment, the need to address, the need to address and the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the need to take and the environment, the need to take and the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the need to take and the need to take into and the need to address of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the environment, the nature of the environment, the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the environment, the environment, the nature of the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the nature of the nature and the environment, the environment, the nature of the environment, the environment, the nature and the nature and the nature of the nature and the nature and the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the environment, the environment, the nature of the nature of the environment and the nature of the nature of the "This amendment is proposed in a set of amendments to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources for which the European Union now adopts and prepares a strategy. We also want to point out that it is unwarranted to abandon these provisions and that this area should be regulated in a way that provides frameworks for the establishment of conditions for sustainable use of natural resources, in order to leave it for future generations. These amendments require the establishment of conditions for sustainable use of resources. So far, it's been working from case to case, without systematic access, and resources are water, mineral raw materials, forests, game, fish etc. We meet the requirement of citizens who were clear, that the previous government, with the help of the OSCE, included Serbian citizens in writing the law and to separate the knife from the cake from the natural resources, that the one who determines the balances of resources alone gives permission to use them and controls them himself, which was also discussed in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9860	Thank you very much, Mr. Stanimirovic, for talking about the next amendments. It's extremely correct. Here you are, Minister Popovic, then authorised representative Ivan Zivadinovic, in front of G17 Plus. The Rules of Procedure say, a representative of the government gets a word when he asks for it, but since you are no longer looking for it, here you go, Mr. Zivadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9861	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, thank you for this. Mrs Gordana Komic has submitted an amendment to Article 3 which defines the meaning of the term – some of the terms used in this law have the following meanings, so there are some 26 definitions. Point 21) Dangerous substances are chemicals and other substances that have harmful and dangerous characteristics. Since the amendments to the environmental law were not written by Mrs Comic but by previous Environment Minister Angelka Mihajlov, she forgot some things here. The government will not accept these amendments and neither will the Serbian Assembly, as the term "hazard matter" has been used in the context of the management of dangerous substances in the event of accidents in accordance with the European Community Directive 96/82 on industrial accidents. Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov again showed her ignorance, and this happened two years ago, when the Shiplars polluted our Ibar, so we had an affair in the King, where local and republican authorities bickered. At that time, a great expert, otherwise a professor of the university, Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov, gave a type of statement – phenol is aromatic alcohol, which is unacceptable for me, as a chemist and specialist in the chemistry of the environment, and I can tell you that students in eighth grade of primary school, when they say something like that, get a unit. Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov then made statements and that phenol is heavily dissolved in water, and I recommend you ask anyone who works in the lab to read what it says on the bottle with phenol and they will see that phenol is excellently dissolved in water and in any other non-probable solvents. I propose to Mr Stanimirovic not to read again all the arguments that Mrs Angelka Mihajlov has given him, in order not to disabling the Serbian Parliament and the public, because this law will not address the subject they propose, this assembly will accept the law proposed by the Serbian government, not because it is a reparated bill proposed by the previous minister, which, by the way, in three years' time the authorities failed to push through any legal act in this assembly, and has charged a good part of the cost of promotion of these laws and promotions of these laws resembled the flying circus Monti Python in Serbia. I had the opportunity to attend such a promotion two years ago, when a team from the Ministry of Environment came to Užice, shared 50 copies of the copied law, we laughed for 15 minutes, because no one had any idea what it was about, and after that the team was satisfied to come to Belgrade. Of course, environmental problems remain the same. This assembly will not allow it, and the government of the Republic of Serbia will not allow it, but we will move towards a system that will bring this Serbia back on track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9862	Thank you. The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9863	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, neither amendment is disputed, but they are already contained in the text of the law. So, since Mr Stanimirovic was kind enough to talk about both amendments, as regards the first one to quote, it is Amendment 4 which was submitted to Article 3. The bill, Article 11, defines the concepts of natural values that make up natural resources, protected natural goods and public goods. As for the attempt to add points 7g and 7d, they will be defined by special laws. Deleting point 21 is not accepted because this point is not in line with EU Directive 96/82 on industrial accidents. Now I'm gonna do something I already said on Friday. The directives are binding material implemented in EU legislation. Papers like that from Cardiff, many times mentioned here, and it's interesting that in 2002, when it comes to the law, the 1998 Cardiffian document was never mentioned, while someone found out there was this document. So the documents talk about strategy, talk about principles, can't be implemented directly. The EU directive, which is actually a mechanism for implementing the Cardiffian document, will be applied in Serbian legislation when, hopefully, this assembly votes this package of laws and thus we have solved this problem. As regards the second amendment Mr. Stanimirovic spoke of, it is Amendment 5, which Mrs. Komic tabled on the proposal of three laws, practically, all the principles discussed here are mentioned in Article 9. It's a bill of law. Now let me say something about knife and cakes and sustainable development, and then let's keep discussing the amendments without always going back to the same story. This concept of law right now regulates sustainable development. No law will be allowed by the government of the Republic of Serbia to be adopted and sent to this assembly unless it complies with the principles, among other things, with the sustainable development mentioned in this law, when this law is passed. There are three mechanisms: through impact analysis, through strategic impact analysis and through an integrated permit, which enable, in any case, ingenuity, environmental programmes and projects to be integrated into sectoral policies. Finally, as for the knife and the cake, if we agree that the knife and the cake shouldn't be in the same hand, and I think we agree, then it's this law that makes it possible. So, the ministry in charge of environmental protection is granting approval, the competent resolution ministries are granting permits. Therefore, nothing can happen in Serbia if it does not comply with this law and if the competent environmental ministry does not grant approval. What's the difference? The difference compared to the previous concept was that in the previous concept, the knife and cakes were in the same hand, so the ministry responsible for the area of environmental protection gave permits, controlled and gave. That's the fundamental difference. Here the knife and the cake are not in the same hand, and in the 2002 concept they were. I'm glad we all agree on that, at least verbally, that they shouldn't be. It's an expression of support for the concept of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9864	Anyone else want to talk about Article 3? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 3a be added after article 3. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Stanimirovic. Thank you for the correctness in which you present Mrs. Komic's views.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9865	I thank Mr. Minister for accepting this previous amendment, but then there was no reason not to accept this one, which reads: in Article 6 paragraph 1, the word "protection" is replaced by the word "system", and in point 2 "protection" is replaced by the word "system". The term "environmental protection" corresponds to a level of environmental management that does not take into account the recovery and improvement of the environment, as well as a system of the environment within the framework of the concept of sustainable development. There have been some assessments here, I will take this opportunity, since I have explained this amendment very briefly, to say, if citizens want to participate as widely as possible in the formulation of the law that will benefit all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then it is an insult to all citizens of Serbia, when we want to hear their opinion on the proposed legal solutions, so it is called the "flight circus of Monty Python" and that in this way, in fact, all those citizens who wanted to take an active part in formulating the environmental protection system law are offended. As regards the definition of hazardous substances, it is not in line with Directives 67/548 and 92/32, where it is precisely defined what dangerous substances are and preparations. It is also mentioned that dangerous substances are chemicals, and nowhere is it explained what chemicals are, and chemicals are substances and preparations. Then the substances are elements or compounds with additives, etc., and the preparations are mixtures of substances. So much for that. As for the work of the previous ministry, I would like to say that it is indeed a shame that this law on the environmental protection system and these three regulations have not been adopted in the previous term. I have already said that it was going to the widest public debate and that it wanted to achieve a general consensus of all political parties here in parliament, so that this law, which should at least be political and the place where political points should be obtained, would be consistent to the point and that everyone would accept it. As far as the work itself is concerned, it has repeatedly been pointed out here that the Minister before the resolution of the previous government asked for a budget inspection, because there were also some doubts here, which ended with the report by the Ministry of Finance on 22 October 2004, which states, among other things, "that from the point of view of the use of funds and donations, no illegality has been established". I'm saying this because there have been several claims here and doubt that there have been any irregularities in the work of the previous ministry. For this area, there should be a special ministry, as well as a dedicated minister, as was Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9866	I've already thanked you for the correctness you're talking about amendments, and, please, it concerns you, the ministers and everything, and we'll talk about the amendments exclusively. Now we've solved that dilemma we discussed for half an hour. So it's not the previous government, the citizens were preparing the previous law. It's okay now. Please don't talk about it anymore. Let's talk about the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9867	Mr. President, I'm merely responding to remarks which, by breaking the Rules of Procedure, are being announced in the discussion of amendments. In the future, I will not respond to these remarks, nor to the fact that I am probably not considered a dedicated minister. I will answer only the amendment submitted by Mrs. Comic. Article 1 requires that there be a system of environmental protection, and yet again it is required not to be a system of protection, but probably by some error that the word "protect" should be isolated and replaced by the word "system", so that it should be "environmental system", and it was required to be called the law - the law on the environmental protection system. I think this best shows the degree of chaos in which the amendment was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9868	Of course we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure in the future, I hope. Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I inform everyone that the session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee will be held on Tuesday, 7 December 2004, starting at 09.45 p.m., on the ground floor. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does Mr. Stanimirovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9869	Mrs Gordana Comic, on behalf of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 9(3) of the environmental law. Therefore, in point 3) of point 2 behind the word "renovation" is put into place and they add the words "preservation of original autochtony" and point 4) is replaced and said: "Sustainable development is achieved by making and implementing decisions that ensure the integration of the environment into all sectoral policies". The following points 4) are added: "4a) The principle of balance of the system of environmental protection is achieved by making and implementing decisions that ensure the balance between the interests of the environment and the interest of economic development; 4b) the principle of reuse and recycling of Matters and objects that can be reused, recycled or biodegradable have an advantage in the use of; 4v) the principle of substitution of chemical use or the transport of chemicals which are less dangerous to human health and the environment, or which are broken down into harmless substances, must take precedence over the use of other chemicals". The proposed formulation in paragraph 1 of this amendment prevents the possibility of abuse. In interpreting that provision of the principle of sustainable development, the solution proposed in point 4 of Article 9. The draft law contrasts again with the mentioned COM 2002/82 final, which sets out a global partnership for sustainable development, based on the sustainable development strategy - the European Union, COM 2001/264 final. Our country also accepted this concept and implementation plan as a accompanying document at the 2002 Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. I therefore urge this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9870	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Minister, go ahead. May I ask both you and Mr. Stanimirovic to gather a few systemic questions, so that we can answer for both the Assembly and the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9871	I'd just quote Vujaklia, so it's required to define something called original autochtony. I now quote to you Vujaklia, a dictionary of foreign words and expressions, you have an aut Caesar, aut niil, an outsider, authtonia, autochthonia: native, native, native, self-indulgent. So the amendment asks us to translate into Serbian, to write -- to preserve original originality. You will accept that, with all the flexibility of this government, such an amendment cannot be accepted. That's the answer to the first part of the amendment. As for the second and I'll say now, this second part is more fundamental than the original autochtony, the proposed point 4a, the principle of balance, is contained within the principle of sustainable development in point 4) of point 2. It's a bill of law. Principles under points 4b and 4v shall be subject to the regulation of specific laws governing waste management and chemical management, and in accordance with Article 10 of this Act. The proposed formulation referred to in Article 2 shall be covered by the principle of integrity of Article 9(1). So all of this is either covered in other places in the law or the law says it should be governed by special laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9872	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 9 by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 9, paragraph 10, with a correction. In Article 9(10), it changes so that instead of saying "everyone has the right to be informed", the following words "every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, associations, institutions and organisations registered in the Republic of Serbia have the right to be informed". In Article 2 following the sentence, "the environmental data are public" should be added "except for persons and organisations from other countries. To provide information on the state of the environment in Serbia, foreign persons and organisations need permission from the competent ministry." According to the law, the point in point 10, which states the principle of information and public participation, reads: "In the exercise of the right to a healthy environment everyone has the right to be informed of the state of the environment and to participate in the decision-making process whose implementation could affect the environment". What does the word "everyone" mean? Under that word, it can be considered that these can also be various religious organisations from abroad, sects, NATO Pact, semi-legal smuggling organisations with dangerous waste from abroad, persons of suspected credibility from abroad, etc. It's all because point 10 says it applies to every person. What information can be sought? Information on natural resources, the exploitation of natural resources, water source sources, capacities, or reserves of natural resources may be sought, on the results of the measurement of the degree of pollution in certain enterprises, on the results of tests on water regularity or on the degree of land contamination. It may also be information that can be made available to other organisations, not only the Ministry, or organisations that are licensed for individual measurements. And what happens then? This very amendment, with that last attitude, prevents persons who possess such information from giving them to those persons. The government's explanation says that the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that information and public participation, which is in chapter five of the bill's proposals, and in Chapter Five, it talks about Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so it literally turns out that no one can get the information it is looking for. That's why I suggest to the government that in order to improve the text, I mean this point 10), accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9874	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9875	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, fellow MPs, in Article 10(2), the word "integrated" is replaced by "integrated". Point 4 of the word "resursa" adds the words "wilders, fish, water, groundwater, natural energy sources, mineral raw materials, planning and editing of space, unregulated and decorated public greens and other areas and areas, water goods, coasts, underground goods and others". The term "integrated" is not adequate, it's considered "integrated". Mathematical integral – aggregate, pollution and measures. This amendment provides agreement with the regulation COM (98) 333 final document from Cardiff and takes into account a number of documents relating to the integration of the environment into different sectors, energy, fisheries, agriculture and the like. Since Vujakli and the dictionary of foreign words and expressions have already been mentioned here, I don't know how it is in this new dictionary, prepared by Mr. Kline and Mr. Šipka, but in Vujaklia it says, an integral significant cell, which consists of a whole, complete, complete, integrated, and integrated is the same thing as to integrate, means to restore, supplement, add something to the cell as its essential part, so integrated would mean "complete", "contained in the whole", "united and united". As it is essentially a "integrated approach" to water pollution, air, land "intellectual", and not the principle of adding, it is more correct to say - integrated control and pollution prevention. So much for Vujaklia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9876	Thank you for this comprehensive presentation. Anyone else want to talk about article 10? Yeah. ) Just don't talk about the difference "cellaneous" and "integrated", it's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9877	I'll just say that the directives are documents that are being implemented. So, 9661 that talks about this uses not the word "integrated", but the word "intergraithid" to be extremely clear. I don't have to quote both Shipka and Kline, and as far as this supplement is concerned, game, fish, water, etc., I repeat again that there is a member of the 10th that speaks of laws that have to be passed and that will cover these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9878	Don't be mad. Why are we joking together? Anyone else on this amendment, language? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 11a be added after article 11. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Gordana Komic, on behalf of the DS - Boris Tadic, has tabled an amendment to add a new title after article 11. "Prevention and control of the use of natural values", as well as Article 11a. This Article 11a reads as follows: "Prevention and control of sustainable use of natural values shall be provided by the Ministry of Environmental Affairs (hereinafter referred to as "the Ministry") in cooperation with the ministries responsible for the relevant area, in accordance with this and the specific law, namely: 1) by developing and implementing programmes and projects of basic research on the potential and reserves of natural resources and goods; 2) by establishing the balance categories and forecasts of dynamic reserves; 3) by listing, assessing the state and trends and the management of natural resources and goods; 4) by establishing conditions and means of evaluating sustainable management of natural resources and good; 5) by adopting standards, normatives and regulations on the environmental use of natural resources and goods; 6) by giving consent to the strategic assessment of the impact on the environment of resources, the programme, the basis and other actions of natural resources and the environment; by means of sounding the environments of natural resources; The prevention and control of the sustainable use of natural values referred to in Article 1(1) for the territory of an autonomous province shall be ensured by the body of the autonomous province responsible for the environment (hereinafter referred to as the Autonomous Province Authority), with the exception of points 2) and (5), in accordance with this and the specific law. The professional tasks of prevention and control of sustainable use and protection of natural values shall be carried out by authorised, accredited and other organisations in accordance with this and specific law. "This amendment is proposed in a set of amendments, although there have been objections to the word set here, to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources for which the European Union is now bringing and preparing its strategy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9880	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9881	A good amendment, but unacceptable only for one single reason, because they are in article 12 and Article 14. The bill of law all these items already contained, as well as in many other cases. The largest number of things to be mentioned in the amendments of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic is more or less embedded in different places in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9882	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9883	On behalf of the parliamentary group Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, MP Gordana Komic, the amendment was made to change and read in Article 12(1): "The sustainable use and protection of natural resources and goods is provided in the context of the planned spatial development and arrangements of the Republic, the Strategy for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and Goods (hereinafter: Strategy) and other documents governing the development strategy in the relevant area. The 1st-member strategy, for a period of at least 10 years, is adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "Stage 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The strategy set out in Title 1 of this Article contains in particular: the principles of sustainable development in national management policy of natural resources and good, the analysis of the situation and the current degree of research of natural resources and goods by species, the spatial layout, diversity, scope and quality, the plan-development and socio-economic analysis of strategic priorities of research and use of natural resources, the identification of balance and weather functions, quantities, quality, threat, renewableness, strategic reserves and the like), the conditions for the gradual substitution of natural resources and materials, whose quantity is reduced, further research in the fields of individual natural resources and goods and guidelines for higher levels of planning, i.e. plans and programmes, as well as the ecological-space fundamentals of natural resources. "Strategism is implemented through plans and programmes for each individual natural resource or good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia brings for a period of at least five years. "The position of the 4th is changed and said: "The Minister responsible for environmental affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Minister) prescribes a closer content of the ecological and spatial fundamentals of natural resources. "This amendment is proposed in a set of amendments to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources for which the European Union adopts and prepares a strategy, as I said when interpreting the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9884	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The amendment reads: Article 13 paragraph 1 deletes the words "autonomous province", and the word "unit" is replaced by "units". The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. They will give an explanation, rather than be with other amendments, where MPs appear, so they only read the content. It doesn't apply to Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9885	It's a little weird, maybe you're making an exception. Perhaps you could have made this exception when Mrs. Comic had her amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9886	Please explain the amendment. You have no reason to argue and don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9887	Maybe he threw something interesting away, so I wouldn't miss it in my life. Namely, what's this about? It's about what's been passed in the last session that we now see, when it comes to the national environmental protection strategy, that this law that we've passed by the majority, called Omnibus Law, is causing such problems, causing such problems that we're not even aware of, let's say, in this law in something that should be of national importance, and in the world there's something that maybe the previous majority didn't have in mind, which is that there's some globalism when it comes to environmental protection. However, these pro-European globalists did not have in mind that this famous and historic Omnibus law would create such problems with unseen consequences. It's about the next one. The SRS proposal is that there is only a state or republic in the national protection strategy and there is a local self-government. However, because of the special laws, as the legislator here says, we must respect this special, devastating law called Omnibus Law and come into a situation that the state, or government, on behalf of the state cannot implement a national strategy. Why? Because it's complicated when it comes to autonomy and AP Vojvodina. Then we go into one absurd. Here's your best example. The majority is now formed in the Vojvodina Assembly; one of the first decisions made by the Resolute Ministry of Mining and Energy is the solution to restore the Ledinac Lake, the natural wealth on the slopes of Fruska up to its original state, to become a quarry. It is a little strange, but it's a new move by the new government, not to mention that recent attempt at a resolution, but this is concrete. The decision was made, tied hands to the rest of the ministry. Why? Because of the spatial plan of Fruska above, there is a province according to Omnibus law. What can the Republic do? The Republic can only interfere or intervene where the interests of the Republic are threatened, the province can cause obstruction, and we cannot intervene. Local self-government is a prisoner of the province's administration, hands tied to the republican administration. What does that lead to? It leads to disaster, which is why the SRS is in this and in every law that relies on the functioning of the province's administration, and it's based on Omnibus law, the amendments will try to change, but we hope we won't need amendments soon. We shall do so in the assembly of the Duke by the will of not only most MPs, but by the will of the majority in Vojvodina. That's why we suggest that autonomy, aware of the fact that it can't be removed until the provisions of the Omnibus Act that regulates this matter are passed, and that attitude 2 is changed and that the units of local self-government are already in attitude 1. That there is only republican authority, republican authority and local self-government, and there is no need for a local self-government intermediary between it and the republican government. These are just additional costs, and here are the specific problems that arise, and will especially arise in the coming period, given not only are the conflicts of thought, but they are within the ruling party at the head of the Regional Executive Council and interfraction conflicts, so we will have to wait for the result of the conflict of these factions to protect the human environment in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9888	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The proposal to add six new titles and members after Article 13. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that six new titles and members be added after article 13. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9889	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Article 13, a new set of titles and members is added. The first title is: "Programmes and projects of basic research on the sustainable use of natural resources". Article 13a follows: "The basic research into the potential of natural resources and goods (geological research, research on mineral raw materials, water, forest, spatial arrangements, natural goods, special values and other) and the conditions of their renewableity are carried out in accordance with long-term, medium-term and annual programmes and projects provided by the Ministry, in collaboration with other competent ministries and for the territory of the AP Authority". The basic expression programmes referred to in Article 1 shall be drawn up on the basis of the Strategy, ecological and spatial bases and action plans drawn up for each individual natural resource and shall be subject to the authorisation of detailed research in accordance with this and the specific law. The preparation of the programmes and projects of the basic research referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out by authorised professional organisations. (Next Title) The approval for detailed groundwater research Article 13b: Detailed groundwater research shall be carried out on the basis of the approval issued by the Ministry and for the territory of the AP authority. The approval referred to in Article 1 shall determine the spatial scope of research, species, scope and conditions of research in accordance with this and the specific law. The approval referred to in Article 1 shall be granted for a specified period of time and shall not be transmitted to another user. (Title) Request for detailed research of groundwater Article 13v: In addition to the application for the authorisation of detailed groundwater research, the programme, i.e. the project of detailed groundwater research carried out in accordance with the conditions laid down by the specific law; 2) evidence of the right to property or land use specified for the exploitation of groundwater for the area covered by the project; 3) evidence of the compensation paid for the change in the purpose of the use of agricultural land; 4) the project on land recycling done in accordance with the regulations. Where, for detailed research referred to in Article 1 of this Article, specific conditions are prescribed and other conditions, evidence of compliance with those conditions shall also be submitted with the request. (Title) The elaborate on groundwater reserves Article 13g: After the completion of the detailed research of groundwater, an elaborate on groundwater reserves shall be produced at a specified source or space containing, in particular: determined quantities, quality, static and dynamic reserves, conditions and regimes of use, renewable conditions and total protection of groundwater. The closer content and method of drawing up the elaborate referred to in Article 1 shall be governed by a special law. A copy of the elaborates referred to in Article 1 shall also be submitted to the Ministry of Water Affairs. (Title) Planning and editing of space Article 13d: Planning and editing of space, as a public natural good, is based on the integration of principles, criteria, instruments and measures to protect and improve natural values and the environment. (Title) The competence of the environmental protection authority of Article 13ð: In the process of drawing up planning documents in accordance with the regulations governing spatial planning, objectives, priorities and criteria for environmental protection of space covered by the plan document shall be determined by the Ministry, i.e. the AP. In the process of preparing urban plans in accordance with the regulations governing urban planning, conditions and measures for environmental protection for the purposes of drawing up regulation rules and building rules, the body of the local self-government unit, i.e. from the city, or the city of Belgrade, shall be responsible for environmental protection tasks. The amendment proposes a set of amendments to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources for which the EU brings and prepares a strategy. The regulation of the conditions of sustainable use of resources was, in the opinion of Serbian citizens in 2002, an important segment of the separation of "knife from pogace" (what was already said here when we talked about other amendments), i.e. the separation of the one who benefits or exploits the resource to determine how it does. With this amendment, we want to point out that the unwarranted absence of these provisions and that the area needs to be regulated in a way that provides frameworks for the establishment of conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, in order to leave them for future generations. This ensures compliance with the COM Regulation (98) 333 final (Cardif document) and takes into account a number of documents relating to the integration of the environment into different sectors: energy, mining, agriculture, etc."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9890	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9891	Except for the fact that one mistake is constantly being made and that in this amendment 13v everyone reads as 15v because the author of the amendment in the beginning was wrong, and then no one notices that error, to make a fundamental comment. Point 13a is contained in Article 12. It's a bill of law. Furthermore, 13b, 13v and 13g remarks are subject to regulation of a specific law on geological resources. Part 13d is more precisely arranged in Articles 18, 19, 20. Proposal for a law relating to the planning of the arrangement of space. And the competence of the environmental protection authority provided for in the amendment under point 13j is not acceptable because this issue is more detailed in the specific law, i.e. the proposal for a strategic environmental impact assessment law in accordance with the Directive. For the fourth time today, the directives are implemented in national legislation, not the EC documents 2001/42 on the assessment of the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-06-0.u9892	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and environmental protection committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Under this amendment, no one wants a word. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. by amendment to Article 15. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 112 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm giving a break of 10 minutes. Please sit down, we'll invite the people who are on board. [[after break, start at 11.25 p.m.]] I inform you that the MPs will be absent: Staniša Stevanović, Gordana Komic and Ksenija Milivojevic and Slavoljub Matic in the morning. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Living Crescents (resuming in particular) National MP Gordana Comić has tabled an amendment proposing that the titles be changed above Articles 15 and 15. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
