ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3134	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 112 MPs. I am taking the opportunity to inform you, today at 14.00 p.m. in the small hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there will be a promotion of the book of Bora Majdanca "The National Assembly of Serbia", on the anniversary of the Assembly, which is marked in Osrežnica the day after tomorrow. You've all received invitations to do so and I'm asking you to celebrate this ceremony together. All MPs are asked to attend and promote today at 1400 hours. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Ispanaović Istvan, Radojle Bukvić, Slobodan Mihajlović, Dejan Rajčić and (afterno) Leila Ruždić-Trifunović. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendment to the Amendment to Article 4? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, is there anyone else under Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration (Statistics) You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milko Stimac, Zoran Krasic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Igor Bečić, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica, Milan Stevović, Vojislav Milajić, Natasa Jovanovic, Tihomir Đuričić and Momir Markovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovanovic, come in. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'd like to advertise a violation of Article 143. Rules of Procedure. "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly session, amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. "Part of the amendment by the SRS was submitted on 11th of this month. The Finance Committee as a parent board, as you like to say, did not sit on these amendments, and therefore the Assembly cannot discuss them without a proposal from the legislator, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and without the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3136	Thank you. Just to clarify the MPs, of course because of a specific situation, there is an article 159. The Rules of Procedure, which says that if the Government fails to give an opinion on the proposal within the deadline, it will also be considered without an opinion. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm sorry, one more Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3137	Now you have violated the member you called (159). "When the competent committees consider the bill, whose review is proposed by emergency procedure, the National Assembly may decide to review the bill immediately, and without reports distributed... "So again you are violating the Rules of Procedure, provided that the MPs have not received reports, but that reports exist and during the debate will be shared with the MPs. I would like to draw attention to the president of the National Assembly and the parliamentary majority who is here to draw attention to the fact that these improvisations were used in the last session, so for the result, we had a vote from Thessaloniki, a vote from Bodrum, a member of the SRS on the door of this assembly sticking a sticker with the inscription "Closed for Stealing". Don't let that happen to you, too. Try to respect the Rules of Procedure in such an important part of the work of the National Assembly. In this way you will fulfill that promise to the citizens, that this assembly will work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in line with democratic definitions, as you allegedly have and which you have promised Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3138	Thank you. So it's my duty to inform the Assembly once again, I'll read both attitudes. Article 159 paragraph 2: "If the committees in charge do not submit reports within the specified time limit, the draft law may be reviewed in the National Assembly and without a report from the Committee. "I read at the beginning of the 7th point that you received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Unfortunately, technically, I can't control it. Reports are split, technical services inform me. Excuse me, please, are they gone? I'm sorry, I was just saying, just a moment to check. Reports have been distributed, I'm sorry. I'll give you my word, just to make it clear if I've received notice of whether they've been shared. Reports of all committees which discussed the amendments were submitted, whether they were given in the first division, not to explain, were first given 13 amendments, later remained and all views and reports of the committee were shared, wherever the committee had an opinion. It's a technical notice. Do you still want to follow the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3139	Mr. Chairman, I have been checking with the Secretary of the Finance Committee, reports on amendments to the SRS MPs, which were submitted on 11 May this year, do not exist. The Finance Committee held an appointment yesterday, it was not held due to the lack of quorum and, as far as I know, not one session of the Finance Committee was held anymore, only that you tried to maintain it without calling the other MPs from the SRS. This means that the report on this amendment by my colleague Zlatan Jovanovic and other SRS MPs who submitted the amendments on 11 May does not exist. This is the problem you face when you schedule sessions by emergency procedure, and then MPs must submit amendments immediately before the debate begins in principle. As the debate continues in principle, since there are colleagues from the committee who want to speak, when a session of the committee is scheduled cannot be collected quorum, partly because of the irresponsibility of the ruling majority MPs, so now we are in one of these situations, because of a technical problem, sloppyness and irresponsibility; or we are going to violate the Rules of Procedure, but then do not call upon him and invite the SRS MPs to respect him, because by example you show that he can be violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3140	Thank you. Once again, please, the Rules of Procedure are clear. Article 159(2) - if the competent committees fail to submit reports within a specified time limit, the draft law may be reviewed in the National Assembly without a committee report. As far as that goes, it's clear from the Rules of Procedure, but I think you're right about the moral point of view, from the point of view of responsibility. Once again, I warn all committees, when it comes to laws such as those proposed by emergency procedure, but more than 20 days are available to the congregation. There's no serious reason that committees don't provide quorum and ambush in due time. Thanks again. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3141	Mr. President, that member of the Rules of Procedure you quoted defines exceptions, not rules. The rule is that committees deliver their opinions, and of course the Government, on all amendments submitted by MPs. But this is nothing new. We had in the previous assembly very often a case that the Government did not deliver an opinion at all on the amendments, so it was also without that opinion of the Government. This is nothing new, it's not a new practice, but gentlemen from the majority in the Assembly, you should have learned lessons from that previous call and realized that they had very quickly completed their career, infamously, so so will you. As regards the amendments I have submitted, it concerns Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Procedure, which refers indirectly to Article 10. Tax code and tax administration. This 10th term defines the tax-law relationship between the tax administration, on the one hand, and the taxpayers, on the other hand. In the first position of this 10th member, the obligations of natural, i.e. legal persons who are taxpayers, where, among other things, the tax-legal relationship is governed by the obligations of a natural, or legal person, to determine, in accordance with the law, the tax, or after deduction, the tax, etc., and then stands - does not make payments any different than prescribed. This wording, according to us in the SRS, is not appropriate to one legal text, because it is a negation of something that should be a regulation and we suggest that this part of the text be changed and that part of the text stands - payments are done in a prescribed manner. In fact, it's quite logical that the law defines how something should be done, not how it should not be done. However, the legislator did not find it appropriate to settle it, but on this article 10th, he filed an amendment, i.e. the amendment of Article 10 in the second position, to define the obligation of the tax administration to return the money to the taxpayer who made the payment, wrongly, without obligation and the need to pay, where the time limit that existed earlier than 15 days for the refund or refaction of the wrong payment was extended to 25 days. It is inexplicable, which is why the government is now insisting and demanding that the tax administration has a longer deadline for making refaction decisions, i.e. to refund money. This is an obligation to make a solution. If it is taken into account that, normally, according to that solution, it remains a 15-day deadline for the execution of the solution, then the return of the money, which the taxpayer has mistakenly paid to the tax administration, will not be paid until after 40 days, which is beyond any sound logic and common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3142	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milko Stimac and Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3143	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is good that the previous two amendments were accepted to Articles 2 and 7 because they were essentially very important for the equality of taxpayers with the state. It would not have been good if an amendment to Article 17 had not been accepted. It's a bill of law. In order to better understand what the SPS, or its parliamentary group, has proposed, I will read the text of the reasoning. Article 17. The draft law should be deleted, according to our proposal, and the explanation is as follows: if the basis for the refund of the more paid tax and the parallel tax is annulled, the amended or abolished solution or other debt act, the interest should be charged from the date of payment of the tax. This would be a more adequate solution, not as it stands in the Bill's proposal - from the day of the delivery of an act that annuls, amends or abolishs the solution. This is what we propose because these actions can last for several months, which would damage those faces. What's this about? Here is the fact that a legal or natural person paid more taxes or was wrongly charged by the tax administration. Now he's going in the process of getting that more payment back. The first requires the tax administration to adopt a return solution, to annul a previous solution with a higher tax charge, and if the tax administration refuses to make such a solution, it has the right to conduct further proceedings. This further procedure can be conducted before the court and the proceedings may take several months. When at last one day a legal or natural person gets a solution that determines that a given day has paid more taxes or was wrongly charged taxes, then they gain the right to recover those funds, but only from the day that it has received that solution has the right to account for interest. That's the point. He paid in March, and all these actions were completed in August and for the five months he did not use his financial resources, and according to this proposed solution, he does not have the right to interest. So the bottom line is that when someone gets the right of the state, when it's found out that it's wrong or more taxed, it doesn't matter when they got the document about it than when they actually made the payment, and that would be real and fair, if you will. Otherwise, when the taxpayer owes the state, that is exactly how the State behaves, because the interest has been calculated since the next day since the outstanding tax-based obligation arrived. So I ask that this amendment be accepted and all MPs to remember the amendment to Article 17 because, as a rule, we vote on it a few days later and that simply most MPs do not know what the amendment really is about when the vote comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3144	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3145	According to the logic of the matter, if the proposing has accepted the amendment to Article 2. The bill and he gave up the intervention he was going to take in Article 10 of the basic text of the law, then this amendment, the Proposer, too, had to accept, and if he didn't accept it, then we practically have to vote for one such amendment. If this amendment is not adopted, then the tax administration enters the logic problem and is based on the next one. If Article 10 regulates that the tax paid more or less, that is to say, the amount of tax must be returned immediately and no later than 15 days, it means that the 16th day does not exist. In this article, the basic text, that is Article 76, is said to be - the amount of more paid tax and the subsequent tax payments of interest shall be calculated at the expiry of 30 days from the date of receipt of the refund request. It doesn't make any sense. So, the legislator warns us that, regardless of what is written in Article 10, there will be such a situation that it will not be returned upon request, and if that deadline is longer than 30 days, then only 30 days will the interest flow. The interest is always due from the day of maturity, so however the day of the claim is determined. Furthermore, in the first position of this article, it reads: "The amount of less or more paid tax and the parallel slowed tax duties shall be charged and the interest shall be paid at the rate of equal to the annual econtaneous rate of the central transmission of the bank". When you changed this, why didn't you tell the National Bank of Serbia, because there's no one else left, but here you are still keeping it. The last position, probably because of the bitter experience of refunding funds based on extraprofits, you are now asking for a change in interest, when the tax authority's solution is annulled, is not accounted for from the day of payment of taxes but from the date of delivery of the act which cancels, amends or abolishs the solution or other debt act. This would mean, in practice, that the tax authority is knowingly, deliberately, tendingly, with the aim of recalibrating the taxpayer to bring a solution, collect the claim, and even forcefully, the party conducts the procedure, and after a year succeeds in the dispute. Then the state will pay the interest, or the interest will be calculated only from the day it was given that solution. Then there's no restitution, there's no vomiting in the former state, and that's when an act of illegality is committed, when a tax authority's solution has been reached. That is why we support this amendment and are asking to delete what the Government is proposing, because personal relations with some taxpayers should be resolved in some other places, not through the law, not in a way that forces the National Assembly to bring and adopt something. Be assured that this cannot be in accordance with the Constitution, for one simple reason which applies to the principle of equivalence and the principle of restitution; it is impossible to recover into the former state unless you have recognised interest for all religions while man has suffered the illegal state that has been imposed upon him. Probably, if the promoter were here, he might be able to think about this and accept this amendment, because unless this amendment is accepted, be assured that the entire text of this law resembles a means of recalibrating taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3146	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3147	In Article 83(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration say: "The tax obligation is increased by a special one-off tax on the mandatory payment of the tax of 5% of the amount of taxes paid and the unpaid taxes, which are charged and attributed to the principal debt on the day of the initiation of the compulsory payment procedure." In Article 19 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act, the Proposer provided for the addition of positions 6 and 7 and says: "The costs of the tax infringement procedure determines the tax administration of 5% of the amount of fines imposed and at least 500 dinars. The costs of a tax offense fall on the burden of a punished person." This Government proposal is obviously completely pointless, illegal and in the opinion of the SRS parliamentary group it is necessary to delete this member and therefore I have submitted this amendment to be a member of 19. The bill is deleted. This whole law is otherwise so restrictive that I think it's terrible what's going to happen to natural and legal persons if they don't respect this law. Of course, laws must be respected, but the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica and Minister Dinkic cannot give everything they have imagined, wherever they need to fill the budget, to fill it with the hands of the citizens in their pocket. Of course, we know how to charge the budget, but you can't take a punishment twice on the same basis. You cannot charge by the basis already provided for in the first position of the members of the 83rd and this basis that you have foreseen. The forced payment is, by the way, the result, you said here, a tax offense, it's a coin, but it's the result of a misdemeanor procedure, and in a misdemeanor procedure, it's normal to charge as much as the law provides. This provision of Article 19 does not comply with the Law on Infringements, i.e. illegal, since the Law on Infringements provides for penalties only in a flat-rate amount, not as you have predicted here. Let's say, if the costs now, as you say, of a tax offense in some procedure are 1,500 dinars, you'll still charge that person 500 dinars, because you can't charge less than 500 dinars, and five percent would be 75 dinars, and then, in addition, you'll charge another 500 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, accept this amendment, do not object to the citizens who elected you. In Serbia, unfortunately, poor people live and do not have the opportunity to pay even what they are committed to so far, and do not every day some new "treasure on the villa" to hit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3148	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3149	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be accepted. It should be accepted, as in the following provisions of the bill, the proposer says fines for unpaid tax should be charged in the amount of two to ten times the tax not paid in any procedure. This punishment is also an inappropriate situation in which our economy is also in which our citizens are, because believe that the largest number of people who do not arrive or do not settle their tax obligations do not do so because they do not have money. In this way, the legislator predicted that the costs of forced collection are paid at 5 per cent and even in the position of the 3rd member: "If the taxpayer pays the tax liability after the start of the mandatory payment procedure, no one shall be exempt from paying a one-time fee". If one person's infringement authority, and later we're going to go back to that authority, imposes a fine to pay ten times the penalty on an unpaid tax than the amount of that tax, we get that only on the cost of forced payment should he pay half his debt. In the second part, which you're proposing now, you're asking for a misdemeanor procedure to be treated the same way, which means that if you charge someone a fine of ten times the tax liability, you're again charging him another half of the tax liability that he didn't settle, which means that the right penalty with all the costs will be eleven times the amount of tax. When I said - a judge for violations, it is another species from which Mr. Minister wants to fill his wasteful budget, because the tax administration does not go through a regular misdemeanor procedure, but has its judges for violations, according to that people's "cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3150	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3151	In order to understand what the government has proposed, I'm going to take an example of what it looks like in practice. The tax authority is authorized to conduct a misdemeanour procedure. The government is now saying that the level of the costs of the infringement procedure being conducted before the tax authorities determines the tax administration at a rate of 5 per cent of the amount of fines imposed. In one of the following members, just to warn you that a fine of a million dinars is scheduled unless a report is filed. Calculate how much five percent is based on a million dinar base. That's a big amount. Practically, the costs of a tax offense are, in fact, punishment. In order to understand what is going on in those costs of a tax offense, it is enough to say that it is one call made to the taxpayer that in so many and so many hours on that day, alone or with a lawyer, comes before the official to make a statement, and can even write it himself and bring it, and on that basis they later make a solution to the offence. Believe me, if it's a million dinars, figure out what five percent is. So the costs of that one call can't be that high. When it comes to the costs of any procedure, then it goes to actual costs, and where it is really unnecessary to determine actual costs or they are insignificant, then it is said – the cobwebs and the cobwebs exist also with the judge for violations, and even exists in criminal proceedings. It's never in this percentage, it's always in some nominal amount. Therefore, in one of the previous views of this member, however, in other matter, when it comes to the costs of forced tax collection, it is stated that the Government prescribes the amount of the costs charged by the taxpayer in the event of forced tax collection. In the light of the fact that some fines are set in the range of double to 20 times the tax amount and that this bill makes a large number of fines for violations from 20,000 to 50,000, and that for some violations, it is as a minimum penalty below which you cannot go, prescribed 100 thousand dinars, see what these five percent in the name of the tax offense costs. The costs of a tax offense, in fact, represent, in essence, an independent sanction, because in the form of costs, someone is being taken away. All of this bill, all of its provisions aim to scare taxpayers, to make taxpayers, when they come under the influence of these new provisions, fairly naked, to take away everything and everything, because for ordinary reporting, the fine is a million dinars. Believe me, I don't understand why you're working against your candidate in this election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3152	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3153	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the country of Serbia, there are good and bad businessmen, there are honest and unfair businessmen. Of course, many years ago, it was said that some people had become rich by not paying taxes and cutting off the state by not fulfilling their obligations to the state. It's the only thing that can be regulated by law. Anarchy, with a story, certainly can't. No good, no honorable, no honest businessman has any objection to such a law being passed in the country of Serbia. Of course, we all know that one of the strictest punishments, exactly the penalty in the pocket, is just a fine. Honest, honest people have no reason to be afraid of any punishment if they meet their obligations to society and to the state. Therefore, if we want to deal with the demagogue story, if we want to talk just for the sake of the story, just to say something here, then we need all the dishonest ones, who have acquired their wealth on the backs of the Serb people, here to protect. And if we want to establish law and order for this country, then of course, we must uphold the law that the government has given. No correct economic operator, no correct businessman, no taxpayer, has any reason to object to such high sentences, because he is at peace with the state. At the end of the line, this law protects honest taxpayers from unfair taxpayers, and that is Serbia's interest, that is the interest of this people. I believe that all the stories so far have been pure demagogue stories and that something like this does not bring good to Serbia or to the Serbian people, and if someone should criticise the government, of course, let them criticise it, but I think the citizens of Serbia know how and how they are poored, who robbed them from both who and how they should protect themselves. They're protected by good law. This law is good, it is repressive for those who rob the state, and it is stimulating for those who want to work honestly and honestly. I'm a taxpayer, and I'm not afraid of this law, because for my 18 years of work, I haven't paid as a taxpayer a single sentence, and I've had a lot of control. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3154	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS is in principle against the proposed amendments and the addition of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, because the proposed changes put the state as an economically stronger entity in an even more favourable position when fulfilling its obligations to the taxpayers, while taxpayers are placed in an even more unfavourable position than they have been before, which is certainly unacceptable. The basic idea of the leaders of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law is to find the easiest way to skin Serbian citizens off their backs. An amendment that, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted to Article 25. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I wanted to make it impossible for the taxpayer's self-will to list the tax debtors' movables. Namely, this member is given the possibility for the tax enforcement officer to decide, on the basis of his free belief, whether the movable matter established by the law in favour of the Republic of Serbia will be taken away at the moment of the census. The proposed amendment deletes the points 3, 4 and 5 in Article 101, as it raises the question of which criteria the tax enforcer will decide, so when there will be this reasonable doubt, because Article 3 says - if there is a reasonable doubt that the taxpayer will disable the sale of movable goods, the matter will be taken away at the moment of the census. There are no objective criteria. So, the remaining exclusively subjective and doubtful whether the taxpayer will make it impossible to sell mobile stuff. Such a possibility, it is true, always exists, but that is why there is a possibility for the tax administration to file criminal charges for a debtor who abuses his rights. I think that's enough. On the basis of which the taxpayer's suspicions will develop, it means that it will be based on the color of the debtor's eyes, based on his physical appearance, based on his wardrobe, whether someone who may be less trained at that time will cause suspicion, and we know that more and more citizens are in Serbia today, will suspect the tax enforcement officer if someone's child cries, while he signs the tormented property of his parents and questions what kind of legal solution ever leads to? I think it leads to the inequalities of citizens, I think it leads to legal uncertainty and leads citizens, as in the Middle Ages, to tremble at the very announcement of the arrival of a tax enforcer, that citizens should pray to God that the taxpayer is in a good mood that day and leave them with that property another day, at least that 15-day grace, until the deadline after which these things can be seized and sold. The SRS is against this solution. We believe that citizens should not tremble in front of anyone, and we are calling on all MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, if they share this opinion, to vote for the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3156	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3157	The Government has proposed an amendment in Article 101 for one intervention which follows in Article 104, which is as follows: that the listed movables are practically taken away from the taxpayer when a 15-day reroute referred to in Article 104(3) is passed. The SRS considers that the problem of Article 101 is not in position 2 but in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. So the first and the second puts are quite fine and should stand as norms, but these attitudes that follow allow arbitraryness and self-will with the tax enforcer, because the basic doubts in the tax legislation should not only exist as concepts, but also when they are put into tax law, they really mean nothing, except that they associate with some criminal procedure. The only restriction that a court enforcer has is that he has some suspicion that someone will deprive the sale of mobile items that are listed for tax settlement, that the taxpayer in the meantime can alienate the sale of moving goods. It is also too wide, a free formulation that allows every tax enforcer to, on the basis of personal emotions, impressions about the tour and the census, determine whether to take these things away immediately or to wait 15 days. Of course, by some logic of things, if he doesn't like the taxpayer, things will be taken away immediately. Such a thing must not stand in the law, because in order for the taxpayer to be able to take these preventive measures, which would prevent the impediment to the sale of moving things, then it is necessary to specify at least three conditions on which he can conclude, that someone will deprive the sale of moving things, that the moving thing will disappear, that it will alienate, that everything the taxpayer does under this and the Criminal Law is a punishable act. So everything the taxpayer does to curb the avoidance of the obligation, the blocking of the tax procedure, other regulations has also been sanctioned. A new authority is given here, or not now by this law, by this amendment that has been in law for two years, but it needs to be thrown out of the law, because it doesn't belong here. In order not to have these arbitrary attempts, since from this whole intensities change the provisions, you see rigorousity, unnecessary rigorousity, I would say, and you will see it especially in these members regarding the violations where everything and everything is defined as a trust of social discipline. So, from the overall intensity of this law and project, there is a requirement to threaten taxpayers, to recalibrate and charge as soon as possible and to collect as much as possible. That's not the problem with the budget. That's for sure. Tax bonds have some logic and by nature things respond in some other way. Then it's better to charge what you can, than to repress the situation so you don't charge anything or much less than what's planned. Tax bonds, both large and small, people who work for years, believe me, they have economic problems how to organize a job. Of course, tax law cannot address the issue of the monetary sphere of the financial market, etc. The lack of production, reduced production, market relations, lack of liquid assets, insolvencies of some, inevitably requires taxpayers to respond differently. This will turn into a simple racketeering and a simple chase between the tax police and the taxpayers, and probably not the goal of any government, in fact, should not be a wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3158	By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted, because what the MPs of the SRS are talking about is not demagogy, but the fact of the situation our people live in and the situation of our economy. Not everyone does business because they love it or because it's their life commitment, but because they're out of a job. Because they look at a certain way to provide their family with existence, and they often fail at first. Those big tax evasions when someone got rich, they got rich in illegal business, where they're extremely large fiscal taxes, and whether by customs, whether by excise, they're tax-based. These are criminal cases. This will come down to the pursuit of small independent trades and small businesses about how the rate the taxpayer applied, did he make a nice calculation, whether it's nice what he calculated, multiplied by the traffic he had. Then, by rounding up the decimals, it will slowly push up to 1,500 dinars so that some procedure can be initiated. For this procedure, and in practice it is so, believe me, so that this procedure that has been initiated should be completed by seizing the movable property, and first by the list, and then, if a suspected worker who exercises control, he has the right and the mobile thing to take away. Most of these independent merchants supply their shops with their small passenger cars. If you take away his car, you take away his labor and means of existence, and that is the tax enforcer who will be real, who will apply the same arches. Do you have enough in Serbia? I'm saying you don't, I'm saying that they behave differently, I'm saying that those who are rich in the secrets of fiscal giving can't leave, or they won't. It's a different story now, but if they're already gone, the record is, everything's fine, no objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3160	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3161	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have made an amendment to Article 42. In the new Article 176a of Article 2, I ask that paragraph be deleted, for the reason that this member is completely undefined, undefined, can be interpreted in two ways, can be caused by major problems, especially in the case of inspection and other bodies, because it says that the sentence of three months to three years and fines will punish one who in the registered room for the storage of goods stores of goods on which the tax is paid, and for which there is no prescribed documentation on the origin of goods and paid tax. So, what if someone were to serve as a storer of goods, and whoever puts the goods on storage had to deliver all the documentation that in some cases was even a business secret. We have a situation that earlier on, whether a storekeeper must only have confirmation of the reception of the material, he must have a dispatch, and now he's asked that there are bills in the warehouse, and invoices and tax certificates. What happens when the goods are just for sale, or when someone stores the goods, and already has to pay taxes, and we know that he makes a statement and that the tax only pays the final customer. We see here that even the owners of the storage space must be experts, that they must interpret that documentation and see if they have everything. Here we have an undefined attitude that can cause a lot of problems, where inspections can punish both the warehouse owner and the owner of this goods. And not to say that there will be a situation where someone who stores goods and small nominal values of 1,000-2,000 dinars can be punished by prison, or sea and fine. We're getting into a situation where one of our citizens who sells something at the market, so if he left some goods in his apartment that he didn't pay taxes on, he could also fall under this law. It turns out 60% of Serbian citizens can fall under this law member and go to jail if this member remains in force. I pray once again, although here a representative of the government and a pronoun of this law are not present to think about this and to realize that this member is completely undefined, and that it will cause a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3162	By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3163	The problem with this article is that criminal law matter must not be forced into tax regulations. When it's thrown out of the sky like that, it's just that there's doubt and uncertainty opening up. Here's what the name of that crime says, "unauthorized storage of goods." So there's a storage permit. The authorised storage of goods is probably based on a contract or in any space where there is a solution that the minimum technical conditions are met so that this activity can be carried out. However, when you look at the text of St. 1 and 2, and this 3, and in particular 4, then you can see that the proposer of this law does not even read the terms. Says who stores the goods, and in the next text, we don't have an answer to who might be the perpetrator of that crime, whether or not the owner of the goods, whether or not the owner of the storage space. Is it possible that an agency that runs a business book that was entrusted by the owner of the goods to do business in accounting? Who's the one who's responsible? You can't see it. You can't even see a possible perpetrator of this crime, and especially what he says in the end, the slave will be taken away. She's already been taken in inspection as soon as that warehouse comes into play. The blood work doesn't take away, because there's nothing to take away, since the inspection has already taken away. This is a big problem, and I have to tell you, and he is a real problem. However, I believe that this is an act or, to be more precise, the action of the execution of this act is already contained in the provisions of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, in that chapter where the criminal act of illicit trade and other acts concerning the trafficking of goods and services on our market is located. Especially the extraction of this and the definition of this failed way of doing this part can only create confusion. That's for sure. It can only be a threat, there's a problem, especially when you need to get into someone's apartment where the goods are hidden. Of course, we do have this problem that a lot of goods are spinning past legal flows, in different territories, in a different business space, and that problem needs to be solved, but I think the path you chose is wrong, will be confusing and will not bring results. Believe me, it won't bring results for one simple reason that within each bet there are at least three to four concepts for which no one can guess what they mean. It looks like he's stockpiling. You have a situation where the public warehouse takes the goods to storage, that it doesn't have to have the documentation, the original documentation for the goods, but it can have the documentation of the one who gave the goods to the warehouse, but the purpose of this norm was not to do so, but to trace the goods that have false or no documentation. You don't regulate this member. You don't regulate at all, especially this about the ban on action. Let me give you a good example. We're witnessing the work of a survey committee. That warehouse is now called a power deposit. You yourself heard how much power went in there supposedly deposited, there supposedly stored. Has the EPS Director committed a crime? Is that why the EPS is going to close? In an interpretation of what you've written, it might come out that way. Data's a stash store, maybe it's mob stuff, who knows how he bought it, let's close the EPS. Take care, I think one idea I've heard exists in the government, to settle criminal legislation, that's a good idea, that's what needs to be done. That's what we need to do, to have one criminal code, the criminal code, all in one place, to get all the crimes out of the indirect laws. But you do, you promise to do it, and on specific examples, you act completely different. We'll probably have another agenda in an hour or two. Yesterday we heard, we shut down nine agencies, but what's worth it, in the afternoon you form another agency. Be a little consistent, think of a system. Don't change anything like that, so let's change this one. No result unless the system is working, unless the changes go in width and in height. That's why we've tabled these amendments for you. We're not defending anyone. Who's a criminal should go to jail, for which there's evidence, go to jail, but don't use these kind of flat-rate formulas to confuse the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3164	Does anyone else want to talk about the vom amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3165	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this new Article 176a of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, proposes by this law, empowers its tax officials to do the job that the Ministry of the Interior and the investigative authorities of the courts are in charge of. First, Article 176a itself does not define who is responsible. Is the owner of the goods responsible, the one who's doing someone a favor, so store some goods or the one whose place is business, or are all three? In Section 1, let's forget about this part that's the subject of the work of some other organs, I can say I understand, but I can't justify it, but I can say that it can be accepted. In Article 2(2) of the already registered business space, the owner of the business space may also respond, because he does not possess documentation on the origin of the goods and evidence that the tax has been paid. This can only be written by economic diletaries, not experts, because the original documentation called invoices, i.e. the shipment contains data on the type of goods, quantity, prices and payment deadlines. This business secrets because there are quantitative rebates, because there are delayed payment deadlines for the quantities to be taken over, because there may be some mutual agreement between the two business partners. There's also a third in some relationship between the two of them, so tomorrow they're gonna ask questions why you gave me worse terms than my colleagues? This guy may have reasonable reasons and he doesn't want justice to be done to anyone else. That's how it works. You, all of these legal regulations, in order to prevent any illegal trade, will simply give authority to tax inspectors, without any specific warrants, and later we will see it during the field control process, can get people into houses, apartments, if they have any reasonable doubts. That kind of authority doesn't even have M.O.P. workers. In some cases, they have them, and they find it difficult to do so. How are you going to deal with tax officials now, who are not trained to do this job, who do not know the consequences that they can encounter, if they try to do such a thing, which will be the consequences for themselves and for the citizens who are going to damage them unwarrantedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3166	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yes, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that the motions of this amendment are right. The right to tell you, if I had noticed what it says now in that Article 176a, I would have also submitted the same amendment, because I think it's a simple provision, especially attitude 2, that's inconclusive. What kind of goods are tax-paying stuff that you know in advance when it's not in traffic? The goods in the warehouse de facto are not in traffic, especially if they are located in a registered warehouse. The tax authorities, it is absolutely certain, have a clear record of the warehouses that are registered for the storage of goods. There's no reason for anyone who owns the warehouse to commit to something that's not his business or his jurisdiction. Imagine how much you have to deal with, how much you have to pay for the amount of discount you have. These are simple things that are negotiated and can also have the treatment of business secrets. The second is the story if we're talking about unregistered warehouses, so the so-called secret warehouses in which someone stores goods that are subject to tax, but only when they put it in the market he was hiding from tax authorities, etc. Maybe you could even understand that someone here was talking about excises, because excises are something that's being predetermined and, as a rule, prepaid. If it is cigarettes or other goods subject to excise duties or excise duties, then it is somehow possible to determine whether the obligation to the State is settled. But when the goods are stored, which is intended for further sale, then on that goods, in fact, no one can pre-tax and say -- give me proof of that, did you pay or didn't you? When it comes out of that warehouse, if it's used for reproduction in companies, there's no tax. But if he goes, say, to retail facilities, then there's a tax, but there's no one who sells from a warehouse, for a wholesaler, but for someone who sells retail. So, for that merchant who does it on the ground itself, in his retail facilities. I'm afraid it's impossible to implement, even if this provision is wanted, without being brought into the position of a police officer to determine whether someone is using a warehouse that's registered, regular, whether he's settled some of his dealings or not. When you look at attitude 3, in which this action is defined like this, and in fact completely vague, declared a criminal act, that's the problem. The problem is who is going to file these criminal charges and who is going to conduct so many acts because it is not possible to carry out something that works completely differently in life. I understand the proposal's intention to prevent illegal flows of goods, gray economy, etc. Registered warehouses cannot in any way have advanced treatment of those rooms where irregular goods will be found. What, after all, concerns whoever owns the space, who charges only storage per square metre, per day or per month, the responsibility of the owner of the goods? He's only obliged to the tax authorities and control to show the goods and to tell who owns the goods, who put the goods in that warehouse. Furthermore, it is not his obligation, but he who owns the goods, and it is the obligation of the authority to establish the illegality of the arrival of the goods and of the warehouse. It is better that we do not have such a provision, which can be fully detached and subjectively applied by all, and by tax authorities, but also by competition, because in this narrow and poor market, there is this kind of competition, so competitors report that you have stored such goods here and there, which can lead to criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3168	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment in order to avoid what can be done to harm the poverty and poor citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at this time and these circumstances. Namely, the proposer in this article provides for dragon penalties, increased from two to 20 times. There are fines inappropriate to the circumstances and times in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia live. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing inflation of regulations in the Republic of Serbia, and in particular inflation and increasing the number of legislation relating to finance, prices, excise duties, taxes and the rest of which is in the pocket of our poor citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why the promoter did not have in mind the possibility of paying this number of dragon penalties, which are proposed in Article 43, or 177. Under the order of this member proposed by the government, if a citizen, or a taxpayer, is late one day, he will have to pay the fine, if he has not filed a tax application, an increased sentence of 20 times. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to compete over how many governments have passed laws or regulations. It is necessary to manage to pass good laws. The provision of this proposed member is contained in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in Article 154. I will quote this article, and you will compare it with the provisions of the proposed law – (tax evasion, Article 154) which, in order to (he or she) avoids the full or partial payment of taxes, contributions, social security or other taxes representing public income, gives false information on their legally obtained incomes, on cases or other facts which have an impact on the determination of such obligations, or who, in the same intention, in the event of an application, does not report legally obtained income, i.e. traffic or other facts affecting the determination of such obligations, and the amount of obligations to which payment is avoided, will be fined by a prison of up to three years and fine. Article 2 is amended as follows: if the amount of the evasive obligation under Article 1, whose payment is avoided, exceeds 600,000 dinars, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from one to 10 years and by fines. It is not clear, and it will not be possible to pay, if you adopt this bill and this member is not deleted, which is indicated by the MPs of the SRS, because such circumstances are that citizens will not be able to pay such taxes and penalties so high. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about 50 taxpayers were admitted to Panchev the other day, and last year 700 tax collectors, according to my information, in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know, I didn't hear if 700 workers in the Republic of Serbia got a job. What are you handling? The government of the Republic of Serbia is being managed only by robbing and taking away that little poverty with which more citizens survive. This isn't appropriate under these circumstances; these kind of punishments, they could be, if they... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Serbia today was Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, England, France. They could then, under these circumstances and according to this property condition, prescribe such measures and such penalties. I think this is actually going to be flat zero. This can't be applied in practice, because practice will deny this. This comes up against resistance and this none... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The power with thousands of tax officials will not be able to implement in practice. You're aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, about these laws being passed under a very urgent procedure, which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the laws... (Chairman: People's Parliament, you've been over the clock for a minute. )......................................................................................................... In any case, they must, first of all, be prepared by professional people, not by trainees, and in the previous government, trainees have prepared draft laws that have been adopted and adopted here. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Serbian Radical Party on these laws, due to the failure of the current government and the current government, will be forced to speak in Nis at a large pre-election rally of the Serbian Radical Party, where Serbian Radical Party's presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic will speak with the leaders of the Serbian Radical Party. Don't mind me, but I had to say that we had to explain to the citizens on the street and interpret the laws you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3170	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3171	With this amendment, we ask that Article 43 be deleted. The bill, because we believe that what is already in Article 177 of the basic text of the law in each respect is more acceptable than what the Government is proposing. To gain insight into what the government is proposing, he says: "A taxpayer who does not file tax returns prescribed by tax laws... "; in paragraph 3. "the taxpayer who submits tax returns at the end of the time limit prescribed by the tax law... "; in Section 5. "the taxpayer who, in his tax return, reported that the incorrect data that could result in..." That's all your offenses. That's a description for three violations. What are the sanctions? From a double to a 20-fold tax rate established in tax control. So here even the thought of something being late is sanctioned. This should certainly be added to the following article, which fully covers the third infringement that I mentioned earlier, because I do not know what is the difference between who in the application that incorrect data and if the tax amount is lower. I guess that's the same thing. I guess it's the same with what you said here from two to 20, and here you said a million dinars, with the next member. So in your case, it's possible that one of the same shops could be treated as three misdemeanors. Since I have a little more time, let me tell you that the previous text you intend to change is better. Here's what he says: "A taxpayer who does not file a tax return within the prescribed time limit will be fined for a fine of 5% of the amount he was obliged to pay." You can see where 5% appears, and 5% of the penalty for the costs of a misdemeanor procedure, that, in accordance with the law, it has established tax in the tax application, or based on solutions that would be made by the tax administration on the basis of that application and at least 2,000 dinars. What has happened to us since Bozidar Djelic proposed this law to date? Last year's inflation by some indicators was about 9%. Maybe I was wrong 1% up and down, so let's make it 8%. Why didn't you increase your fines by 8%? For this year, you planned inflation between 8.5% and 9.5% on an annual basis. If you'd included that, and since last year, we wouldn't have made millions of dollars again. So we tried to convince the promoter, but of course we also tell the citizens of Serbia what happens when the coalition and the assembly majority in this building adopt this law in a few days. What's next? Of course, I must warn you that another member has passed quite undetected. According to that member, the finance minister can issue a warrant for emergency field control. So, after this law comes to the scene, the minister, the emergency field control, who paid for it, who doesn't pay, will be shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3172	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3173	Ladies and gentlemen, in all this law, the desire of the finance minister to interfere with the work of the judicial and police authorities is constantly intertwined. Still this draft law amending and supplementing the Law, and in this article, which is the subject of this amendment, is not seen in that tax application, nor in that Member of the law itself, what is the case if the tax payer is to pay the tax, records it in his business books and does not report it until the day of control. Now that can be pure happiness. First, will he report after 10 days from the deadline provided for by the Tax Procedure Act and then he will pay some fine that is reportedly smaller, from two to ten times, or the next day, a tax inspection will run out on him and charge him 2 to 20 times. What if the taxpayer in his tax records doesn't charge tax at all, doesn't register it, so in some subsequent control, the tax inspector finds it? Is that a felony or a felony? My colleague, who explained his amendment, cited the provisions under which it was a crime. That alone cannot be the subject of this law. What if the taxpayer makes tax returns, pays taxes, and doesn't file a tax return in time? Once again, he will be punished from 2 to 10 times, just like that taxpayer who was late and did not pay taxes within the scheduled time limit. It seems to me that the promoter here doesn't understand the situation most taxpayers live in, that most shops, independent trades, companies that are classified as small and often have retail facilities, often most of the work on religion. So the taxpayer can choose whether to pay the tax on time, to carry out his obligations to the state in time and to damage his suppliers who will stop supplying him with goods and thus prevent him from carrying out his activity through the tax law and to preserve his existence. That's a problem this government doesn't seem to be able to deal with, because it doesn't know. Such drastic penalties as are foreseen and which, in the most frequent cases, will be at the expense of these very small ones, with some powers that the tax police will have, you will not fill the budget. You will only cause these small shops to be slowly and gradually, and these small businesses to be shut down. You're gonna drive people out into the street, you're gonna smuggle them into corners, you know, corners, because they're not gonna be able to follow such rigorous laws. By laws like this, you're actually killing a taxpayer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3174	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3175	Gentlemen of the Radicals, our people say, "He who steals is a thief." You're missing the demagogue story. The law, first of all, is aimed at making tax evasion pay and paying the fine. From this will live the sick, the living powerless, the poverty of heaven will have some money. Don't try to protect the thieves with your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3176	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3177	I'd like my colleague to come out here and say something that makes sense. All the time I've been here, I've been saying that these provisions of the law apply to the very little ones who, as a matter of fact, carry out their tax obligations, with a delay, but they do. The big ones, the ones who really break the law, who still don't report true invoices to customs, remain protected, will not be subject to this control. That's the problem. In earlier discussions, I mentioned it. It's not about protecting those who do tax evasion. I also asked that question for a pay phone – how does this law separate those who really do tax evasion and those who can't pay taxes on time? But these are the rights of the majority MPs who go out for this pay phone, speak for about 30 seconds and leave the room. Now I'm going to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and about the quorum for the work of the National Assembly and end this Rules of Procedure and that quorum once and for all. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the majority that was not created here was created to work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was created solely for the sake of the government itself and the fight against the SRS. Anyone who comes out for this pay phone and insists on hurting the Rules of Procedure – why SRS MPs do not participate in the quorum is wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, you have more than 126 MPs. Where are your MPs to support the government at all times, at least in the number of 126. Then you say the MPs of the SRS won't work. That's not true, you won't work, because you don't attend sessions, because you only come to this assembly when it takes the diaries to get up. The honor of exceptions, but at this point you lack at least 40 MPs, who will raise the journals as well as the MPs of the SRS, who are present and who are in the hall. So don't ask us to give you a quorum, but gather your 126 MPs and give the quorum and support to your government, if that government has any support for this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3178	According to the electronic system, there are 91 MPs, even without SRS cards, who are not currently participating in the quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3179	I express my doubts about the current correctness of the electronic system and request that the electronic system reset and re-establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3180	I can only say that the electronic system shows that there are 87 MPs, but with the naked eye you can see that there are more. So I'm asking the service to count, because obviously, the electronic system isn't working. I ask the service to count the MPs, because obviously I have to rely rather than the electronic system. Since the service has determined that 87 MPs are present in the O.R., we can continue our work. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given these dragon penalties, the consequences of the violations, the prison sentences, etc., which are in one inappropriate form and inappropriate height, I would like to say something, not to say that it is not said from this speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On February 28, 2003, in the Federal Assembly, we adopted the Charter of Declaration of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. In this charter, which we have received high international recognitions that such a charter in our midst has been adopted and that this is a sign of our approach to the world, it is a well-known thing, it says that the right to property is guaranteed and that no one under Article 23 can be deprived of property except in the public interest, and it is established by law, with a fee that cannot be less than marketable, except to ensure that taxes, other taxes or penalties are paid. But the Charter in its Article 5 provides for one significant restriction, so it is said that, when limiting these human and minority rights and interpreting these restrictions, all public authorities, and in particular courts, are obliged to take care of the essence of the right to be limited, the importance of the purpose of the restriction, nature and scope of the restrictions, the relationship between the restriction and its purpose and whether there is a way to achieve this purpose with a smaller limitation of rights. So, you can't legally predict this high-priced punishment, this inappropriate punishment, this 20% increase, it's not similar, and it's not in accordance with the Charter of Human Rights, which we agreed with, and that's why we should enjoy international treatment for respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3182	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3183	Dear MPs and the chairman, it is quite common that the opposition to a pay phone is against the government's proposal or the ruling majority, related to the increase of certain taxes, taxis and such types of burdens. Of course, this is usually how certain political points and a certain political position are obtained, and it is nothing unusual everywhere in the world, and even here in our parliament, but it is a little unexpected, especially since all political groups are primarily committed to the functioning of the rule of law and to the postulates where the rule of law should rest. So it is unexpected that political points are obtained by requirements for criminal policy to be milder and the penalties to be lower. Penalties are applied when laws are broken, and that's the basic principle, and we're all aware of him and we accept him. The thesis on this is presented and presented to citizens that penalties are a regular imposition and a regular burden on all taxpayers, which is a full curve of the picture. Of course, we're talking about an amendment to Article 43. We're talking about the amendment that you're criticizing, because you're looking for an increase in the penalty for untimely tax returns and tax returns, and I know exactly what this is about. You are asking to reduce burdens, or to reduce penalties, rather than tax burdens. By asking to reduce or apply fewer penalties, you want to create a climate in which taxpayers who break the law will be able to decide to break the law and this is simply a simple and logical conclusion derived from what you want through criticism of this member of the law. Of course, it can be acceptable that the current tax system does not function in the best possible way and that in certain cases it is not fair to tax bonds, and it can be a subject of criticism, but it is something that the Government will work on in the coming period and is already preparing for reforms of the tax system and tax administration, which will allow all taxpayers to meet their obligations in a timely manner in a fair manner. You'll see. Of course, any criticism of the tax system can be justified in this way, but criticising penalties against the amount prescribed in the bill, I think it is inappropriate and throws one completely different light on obligations and on the functioning of the entire tax system, because as I said at the beginning, penalties apply only to those who violate the law and their basic function is not to fill the budget. You have a chance to look at the budget we voted on, you must have it in your hands, so the fines aren't meant anywhere as revenue from the budget. Penalties are tasked to counter the intention of offenders, and that is the principle everywhere in the world, and the penalty applied in tax policy, which is less than the amount of the intended tax, does not give any effect and that is absolutely clear to all. I expect taxpayers to understand, in this very way, by amending the law, by introducing tax discipline, of course, it is welcome in every system and you who are in opposition, I think you will support the same intention. Justice, of course, must be present, but together with justice, with a tax policy that will release and be stimulating, we need to find a measure and a way to maintain tax discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3184	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3185	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed this amendment to delete Article 44. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration for the reason that an existing solution to the basic law is more appropriate and celery. So far, the basic law provides for a fine of 400,000 dinars for a taxpayer, in Article 178 of the basic law, and now your amendments and additions amount to a million dinars, which is not only inappropriate to the conditions and in the country in which we live, but it is a proposed solution far from common sense and mind. Gentlemen, you want to skin this nation naked, squeeze it to its bones, even the promoter dared to introduce a new position of member in 44, where it expands and predicts this violation of punishment and a responsible person with a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. With these dragon and enormous penalties you will not discipline taxpayers, because the penalties they will not be able to pay, so this law, like many before this law, will remain inapplicable to you. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3186	Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3187	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have tried this amendment to correct the existing law, including amendments and amendments to the law. The first and one of the basic corrections concerns the new proposed solution to punish the person responsible in the legal person for the infringement referred to in Articles 1 to 3 of this Article for filing an incorrect tax application. The promoter proves his ignorance because the taxpayers are also individuals, independent tradesmen. There's a certain illogicality here in the whole of the law, that some will have to pay the fine, and others won't have to pay the fine. That's why we asked this provision to be deleted. If they're going to pay a fine, and the other one won't, it shouldn't even exist in the law. An old legal proposal, that is, Article 178. The tax administration law and the tax procedure which is the subject of this amendment are not good. Not good, hence the fines now go to new millions of dinars; and there tax returns up to 10% wrongly filed tax returns, up to 25%, up to 50%. Does the bill promote that 10% could be 150 dinars, and it could be a million and a half dinars, it could be 50 dinars. You have taxpayers who really pay small taxes. Regardless of the size, the nominal amount of unreported tax will pay a fine of up to a million dinars. Why criminal provisions are not related to the nominal amounts of tax offences, not to the percentages, as the proposer provided for by this law. The problem with the whole law is that you have placed in the same basket small taxpayers and large ones, and you will punish them by the same archaic for small violations, small tax cuts and large tax cuts. That's the problem with this law. I'd love to see that tax system reform and the tax administration, so if it's a reform, then that reform must be failing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3188	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45, which is related to Article 179 of the previous law. We suggest that this article be deleted on the 45th. This article refers to an increase in the censorship of the criminal proceedings. I'd like to say a few things about the liability of business entities. When it comes to the responsibility of economic operators, we must start from the fact that there is a responsibility and a business entity, but also a responsible person, and in particular I am talking about the responsibility of entrepreneurs. Three types of procedures are prescribed. The first procedure is the one we're discussing, in front of the tax authorities. The second is before a trade court in the course of economic crimes. The third is being conducted in a regular court of law, which is a criminal case. When it comes to criminal proceedings, only natural persons respond. In these first two cases, physical faces, but also legal faces. From that point of view, I have to say that very often there can be cumulation of procedures. Therefore, to be conducted in front of the tax authorities, but also to bring proceedings before a trade court, or criminal court. The basic rule of our right is that if a sentence is imposed in one of the previous proceedings, it must be included in the penalty procedure that follows. Look at the fines that are scheduled. These penalties provided for under this bill are greater than those provided for in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. We have a whole group of crimes against the economy, out of unconscious business, abuse of power in the economy, tax evasion, etc. I'd like you to see how many fines regular criminal trials are being imposed, and here is the responsibility for the offenses, and this isn't about criminal acts. So, much lighter vision of responsibility. On the other hand, I need to point out a few very important things. What is done before a trade court in the case itself and what is done before criminal courts is prescribed by certain procedural law. Each judge and the trade and regular court must take into account all the expedient and all the difficult circumstances. Let us begin from the first, under which circumstances a criminal offence has occurred or a commercial offence, to those in which the person responsible, or person called for responsibility, is placed. None of this is seen in a misdemeanor procedure. In a misdemeanor procedure, which conducts such organs, it is generally possible to deliver a written defence, it may appear, but the punishment is imminent. If a complaint is filed, I don't know if any complaints have passed the second degree as a registered complaint. As a rule, everything returns to the first degree and is confirmed; the aim is to charge. If we look back on criminal liability and punishment from Article 179, I must say that the fines here have been increased by 250%. If they are increased, we have to give reasons why they are increased, whether these objective circumstances have led to an increase. If our economic growth is 250%, if our living conditions have increased 250%, we agree that this is also increasing. Therefore, there is no need to generalize things and say that radicals protect thieves. I think we have proved and shown the public of Serbia that we care and our main goal is to eliminate and eliminate thieves and bring their responsibility to legal norms. Therefore, there is no basis or reason to falsely accuse us of something that is not our intensity. On the other hand, we need to look at how many penalties are imposed and what are the revenues. The third thing we need to see, which is to look at the work of trade courts. If we look at the statistics of cases being resolved in trade courts, 85% of the cases are worth up to 500 thousand dinars. This is why judges are breaking up, for days on end, making first-degree, second-degree and audit decisions. We here, by one move of feathers, declare the fines of a million dinars. I don't think it makes sense. Please think again and vote for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3190	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3191	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is another member in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, where there is a lack of logic of the motion itself and separation, i.e. the classification of taxpayers who are to pay different penalties for the same committed tax offence. For example, a fine for a violation of Article 1, the responsible person in the legal face, with a fine of between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars, will be fined. The upper limit is moving again, but you can't see where the responsible person will be punished with the entrepreneur. In the next position, a violation of Article 1 will be fined by an entrepreneur with a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 dinars. In the next position, a legal person. So the legal person in this bill will have to pay twice the fine for the same tax offense. Entrepreneur one. The SRS MP, who submitted this amendment precisely because of the separation of taxpayers, asked for the provisions of this law to be deleted and a new member would be brought to justice to resolve this. Obviously, it is not clear to the legislator whether an entrepreneur or a natural person, or a legal person, determines the capital he has. In practice, it's quite different. You have entrepreneurs who have a whole chain of production to retail, with a capital of 10 or 15 times that of an average legal person. Their economic power cannot be measured by how it is registered, whether it is registered in the Court of Commerce or registered in the Department of Finance in the territory of a municipality. It's your division, it can be done in the way of registration, but by the criminal provisions, all persons must be equal, and by the Constitution it's so that all citizens are equal before the law. Follow the Constitution, and when it comes to infringements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and all taxpayers, apply the same penalties to all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3192	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Group, we have submitted this amendment. So, we did not suggest erasing these penalties, i.e. returning to the existing situation, although these penalties are very high in law, but we proposed a correction of the proposal that we think is more appropriate to the real economic power of taxpayers. What's the point? We have here suggested that the fines proposed in the range of 400,000 to millions of dinars are actually reduced to the range that the highest penalty on this basis can be 600,000 dinars, i.e. to be increased by 50%, not two and a half times, as proposed by this member of the law. Furthermore, we also suggested that fines related to individuals for certain offences be increased by just 50%, so what was scheduled to pay the fine of 20,000 dinars, to be 30,000 dinars, what was 200,000 to be 300,000, which was 10,000, to be 15,000, which was 5,000 to be 7,000, which was 50,000 to make it possible to be 75,000. So we didn't want to question the need to act on taxpayers' taxes to be financially disciplined and to settle their tax obligations, but we wanted to compare, if possible, the current real economic situation. It has not been two years since the previous law was passed and these penalties have been high. Inflation, meanwhile, has not crossed 20% in two years. We suggest that fines increase by 50%, because it really doesn't make sense to be increased by 150% and that someone is expected to be able to pay such a fine. Throughout Serbia, there are so many entrepreneurs, store owners, craftsmen's shops, who would rather agree to spend three years in prison than pay millions of dinars of fines, and if you look at us MPs, you will see that millions of dinars correspond to three years' worth of the MP. Perhaps some of us would even rather spend a few months on an arrest than pay a million dinars of fines, as suggested here. That's one thing. Secondly, that store, that company that is classified in the category of small businesses, comes into a situation that, for example, it has not filed an informative application within a certain deadline, pays a fine of millions of dinars, certainly has no future and can shut down its premises, to shut down its activity. I would like to remind you that there are 250,000 registered companies in Serbia, and look at the records of how many active businesses there are, only 90,000. If these fines were to remain, then at least one good half of those 90,000 could immediately close the gates and stop working. So, it's not about whether or not we're going to punish those who will, or want, or do tax evasion, but it's only about who can handle these penalties, and it's especially important to keep in mind that, by the rule of law, those small economic operators who are subject to these penalties are doing one, possibly two workers, and those who have lost their jobs in previous years, and those who are not even professional enough to do some of these jobs in good time and in accordance with the law. If they are forced to hire a professional person and pay for all that, that someone professionally advises them, then what they would otherwise earn as their own minimum income must give to someone else and put themselves in a position to work for someone else. So I think that these penalties should also be compared to at least the current economic moment, and perhaps in the future lead to them being both more drastic and proportionate to the work done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3194	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3195	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration provides for an increase in fines for natural persons from 20,000 to 50,000 dinars, and in point 10) is replaced by a margin, meaning the standard on the basis of which the punishment is carried out. The SRS believes that this member should be deleted and that the existing solution is better. Now you'll see for what reasons. With an existing solution, monetary punishment for natural persons, which are not entrepreneurs, means that entrepreneurs are exempt here, only refers to citizens, ranges between 5,000 and 20,000 dinars, and the government proposes an increase to 50,000 dinars. So two-and-a-half times or 250 percent increase in fines for no reason whatsoever. The 180th article envisions 21 points in which citizens are punished for various types of tax offences. I'm just going to give you some examples, to see what the fines from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars are paid for, as the Serbian government suggests -- if a citizen does not enter his PIB when filing a tax application. I don't think 80% of citizens know the exact meaning of the word "PIB" and instead of helping citizens, and that the explanations and instructions, and for those citizens who are not destined to file tax returns and tax terms, they are without a sickle punishing citizens, and that, no less, but in the range of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. Also, anyone who submits tax returns unsigned. It can happen to anyone with a slip, fill out a full tax application and not sign it. It means that now someone who accidentally forgot to sign a tax return should be punished between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars. Those who do not respond to the call for clarification or provision of information on participation in the tax procedure, etc. - instead of the tax authorities working with their taxpayers, providing them with legal assistance, giving them explanations for some of the basic tax operations, they punish them unconditionally. That is why the SRS has also invested this amendment and is asking to delete this member, and the ruling party's representative, MP Matic, has accused us here directly of speaking, as he said - of spreading demagogy and protecting criminals. Now I ask the question - are these citizens, who are being punished like this, criminals? Does the SRS protect these criminals or citizens? Who's being punished here, criminals or citizens? Nobody mentions criminals here, because a criminal doesn't have a P.I.B. number, and he doesn't care. The second part - Article 46 refers to point 10) of Article 180, which is – interferes with the implementation of the mandatory payment, or if it does not move away from the place where the mandatory payment is carried out and its obstruction continues, and if it refuses to make the things it owns available for the purpose of carrying out the forced payment - so mentions Article 90(3). Article 180 explicitly provides for fines to punish individuals, citizens. Entrepreneurs are not punished. What does Article 90(3) say? - in order to draw up the list, the taxpayers have the right to enter the land and into the room in which the taxpayer carries out his business activity. How is it possible to include an entrepreneur in this article of law, one who performs certain business activities and punishes the same person as a natural person? (President: Time.) This is what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3196	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3197	To this member, the government of the Republic of Serbia sends a greeting to the citizens of Serbia and says about this - if you have any knowledge that the tax inspector will stop by your house, you hurry to the MUP, sign in there, you will be much better off with criminal responsibility than with criminal liability, based on this amendment of the law. Here's what he says - a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars will be fined for a non-entrepreneur crime. A natural person who is not an entrepreneur is every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. He may also be in the tax procedure because of the property tax. He's got some property, whether it's agricultural land, whether it's an apartment, it doesn't matter, but he's a taxpayer, and that's the biggest coverage. So almost all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are covered by this norm. Since the maximum sentence was 20,000, the new government says the maximum penalty should be increased, to be 50,000. In a year and a half, it was probably 250% inflation in Serbia, so the need to keep it from losing its substance in fines. What's being punished? Citizens of Serbia, be careful when you file a tax return. Here's what it says - when you file a tax application or another prescribed act, you don't enter your PIB in the prescribed place; so when you fill out the tax application, you first look at where the PIB section is. If you do not enter that number, you will be punished and the penalty will be between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars. Those who are in years of age would do well to ask the children at home to look at where this section is, to especially paraphrase it, to have that ruby shaded, to type in the data precisely, because Mladjan Dinkic probably gave the order to people who work in the opposition administration to receive applications without the PIB. Sometimes, if it's a mess, the man in the office says, "Please fill this out here so it doesn't work out, so we don't run the procedure." No, now the tax authorities will deliberately receive incomplete tax returns, because everyone has to pay 50,000 fines each, because this is a serious offense. In the same article we have point 15) – violations, where the fine is from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars, unless the citizen makes the right place for tax inspectors to work in the field control process. The tax inspector can exercise field control, come to the citizens, and unless he provides him with working conditions, the citizen will be punished. The price is 5,000 to 50,000. So, get ready, in the living room, determine a corner where there'll be a chair for the tax inspector, so you don't fall under this serious offense, because you're immediately a criminal, as one of the predecessors said. We protect criminals. Serbian citizens are criminals unless they are domesticated by a tax inspector from nine mesetalus, a kilo per kilo, a syringe and wine, etc. I've got to read this, because he's complaining about someone making something up. I'm just reading what the experts wrote. Point 17), this is what he says, serious crime, punishment from 5,000 to 50,000 -- if a citizen is not present during field control or refuses to participate in the field control procedure in accordance with this law. Look at Article 25, point 9) what it says and what it has to do with what you wrote. So you have to be present on the plot when one comes to do field control, whether the plot is 12.77 acres or 12.87 acres. Serbian citizens become criminals thanks to those who write such laws. So, all those who informed us that inflation wasn't in progress last year and last year was a lie, because the new government came to the conclusion that it was 250%, and that the state wouldn't lose on the substance, to remind one of the predecessors, the fines were the budget's income, and that's what the minister wants to replace, because it didn't exactly end up with fuel, diesel and some other stuff, it failed. His intention was condemned. Now we're going wide. When you go the width of the procedure, then every citizen, as you say from G17 plus, is a criminal. All of them will be in action R48 en route E10 with approach E75. Encrypted, you understand. Citizens, when the tax inspector comes show you a G17 plus membership card, if it's uncompaned, then you'll get a discount, or you'll be released from responsibilities, but by law, which is the tenth item of the agenda. Under that law, you will be freed. Another addition to your interest, all proceedings are conducted in the IRS. So, just the tax inspector forward the file to the person authorized to conduct the infringement procedure in the tax authority, and if the meze wasn't good, prepare 50,000 dinars. If you don't have the money, choose the bank, you'll get the loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3198	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3199	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the promoter and such an imprecise member are demanding an increase in the fine for certain tax offences. It has been read several times, so let’s say at point 5) when submitting a tax application or another credited act at the prescribed place does not enter its PIB. The following shall be followed immediately after point 6) which shall not be submitted to the IRS within the legal period or additional period of the tax application or, if it is not signed, by the IRS. Now you can imagine that someone who doesn't have your information, except for your name and last name, your address, can find all that information in the most common phone book. He can, for you, make a joke or make a mistake, file a tax return with such incomplete data. Who's gonna have to pay the fine? A citizen who is neither guilty nor debtor may have already filed a proper tax application, but who will tax the application to be treated. The tax offense has been committed. The authority for carrying out the infringement procedure, which is located in the tax administration and works in the tax administration on the basis of the orders of a tax inspector, and most often they are friends, will always follow the record received from his colleague. Point 13) - at the request of the taxpayers, does not hand over the matter of the taxpayer who is with him, and does not pay the tax liability of the taxpayer instead of handing over things. Most often in the tax procedure and in each other emergency collection procedure, the first thing to do is to seek movable property. We're aware of the fact that today a large number of citizens buy a car from a neighbor or friend, no money to translate it on themselves, is formally owned by that car, comes the tax inspector, buys a gentleman, fiche, south, flag. Whoever has the money buys bmw, Mercedes, and these little cars are bought by ordinary citizens, a 14-year-old car. He doesn't carry a car on himself, and in the process, the tax collector sees that his neighbor has a registered car, owes a tax, his car is formally with another person, comes to the other person and steals his car. For these tax offences, a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 is prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3200	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3201	Ladies and gentlemen, you might have noticed that the G17 Plus MPs are mostly not responding to everything that some other MPs are talking about today, because they're talking about themselves against themselves. It is simply incomprehensible that someone in this country advocates tax discipline. It may be understandable only in our country, but no other country in the world understands. Our citizens are highly disciplined and they have no problem paying taxes. They always paid him regularly, and of course that's not a problem for them. It's only a problem in the last ten years when politics have been conducted -- we'll easily destroy the state and make money into private pockets. It's a policy that G17 plus wants to get in the way and therefore wants all the funds that are scheduled to be paid to the state and that's what this law insists on. Of course, punishments should be great for all those who are willing to tax evasion, and ladies and gentlemen know who's been taxing in the past few years. These were not ordinary citizens of Serbia, the law was not directed against them and they know very well that the law is not directed against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3202	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a tax policy that has been changed by a package of tax laws starting in April 2000, upon the arrival of DOS to power, and established, codified and harmonised with the countries of the European Union; it was mainly the basis for the adoption of such laws, amendments and additions to which this government is also resorting, now with new Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, with Mladjan Dinkic as finance minister, the exponent of the mafia and economic lobby, both from the country and abroad. It is not surprising for us from the SRS parliamentary group and me as the applicant of the amendments on behalf of Serbian radicals that you, gentlemen of the ruling structure, and the lax congregation majority, show a complete absence of reality and enormous ignorance when you come out to defend the government's views according to certain amendments. You don't even know which member is next, which amendment is being talked about, as was the case before, when a colleague came out and, I don't know if he's a member of 43 or 44, he's still talking about defending a policy that means total destruction and the little business activity that exists in our country. In order to apply the Tax Administration Act, the tax procedure, in order to apply such high tax rates, gentlemen of the ruling structures, it is necessary to completely change the structure of our economy, to have growth in business activities. In a country where, with the clear approval of Prime Minister Kostunica, the finance minister projects a budget with a deficit of 45 billion dinars, it is impossible to expect you to have some larger business activity, as the quarter of the quarter shows that the decline in industrial production is increasing. The minister still boasts about it and says the foreign trade deficit will be kept at 4.5 billion euros annually. The grey economy, i.e. the tax ejaculation, for those who do not know it, and even comes out of a coalition group that boasted that a zealous citizen, a businessman, pays taxes regularly, is not only a problem in a country like Serbia today, which, unfortunately, is in a three-year constant decline due to such DOS policy, and now you continue, but is a problem for the countries of the European Union, which you want to enter into. And no one has any objection to joining the European Union, but you should tell the citizens of Serbia that because of your behaviour, we are now the predecessor of power in 15 years from the entry into the European Union. So, not five as they said in 2000, but now it's an optimistic projection that it will be in 2015. This article 47 speaks of Article 181 of the Basic Tax Administration Act and the procedure to which the SRS responded when Djelic proposed it, and you only increase these penalties further, in fact, it is the Consumable Law, Djelic's Law. So you're the continuity of this Dossian government. He is now increasing 250 per cent of the fine for those who are enroling in the court register. Now, due to the change in the Law on Payments, banks appear as a legal entity and is added in point 2. – "and if it registers the establishment of a legal person and the activities in the relevant register without proof of the tax paid and of the subsequent taxation of the founders and of the previously established legal persons". It is about the fact that this law, and it has been said a lot by colleagues Krasic and Arsic, in many of their members and attitudes, is completely unnecessary, because of the fact that these provisions, and most of them also mentioned in Article 181, i.e. in the proposal for addition and amendment of the Law, are already contained in the Law on Courts, in the Law on Economic Registers. What's scariest of all is that you want to defend something that's indefensible – that we have such dragon penalties, when the entire economy stands, when Djelic's taxes are unbearable to citizens and for those who are trying to somehow survive on the market, in a non-market economy, in a country where nothing is done, where workers are fired. (President: Time. I'm done. On the other hand, none of you wanted to raise a key question for both citizens and the economy – why now Mladjan Dinkic, whom you are calling, and I said what his right qualifications is, is true and the citizens know very well... (President: Time. It's been 5.43 minutes. ) Mr. Markovic, you can't just suddenly show up behind my back, walk in from the door and fall in the middle of a story, and I'm talking about a serious law and a serious amendment. (President: Don't worry, there's nothing with the back; 5.57 minutes, and I warned you about 5.20. Here you go. Finish it. Why are you so nervous, you have no reason to be so nervous. I'll finish one sentence. So it's an anti-constitutional and illegal tight interest. The SRS submitted an amendment three years ago to a tight 0.2 per cent interest per day for unpaid taxes and the amendment was then accepted by the current minister and government. It continues to apply illegally and against the law, because it is contrary to the Bond Act, the National Bank Act, which prescribes exotic rates. You'd better look a little truth into your eyes and see that people can't pay basic taxes for housing and utility, but rather boast that by 250 percent you're going to increase dragons' sentences in a country where everything is concerned, where people don't receive salaries. You cut pensions to the pensioners by 4.7% the day before yesterday. Therefore, your destiny is quite certain. After all, starting on June 13th and beyond, you will see that things are going to happen in Serbia. It is not realistic what you are doing, and what Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS offer is certainly appropriate for our conditions and our economy, which, if God and people will, we will run, but on sound grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3204	Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3205	I am glad to hear that some have given up, that they will no longer support the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing they gave up, because when they hear an explanation of what the government wrote in this article, they'll understand that this law is not to be supported. This is Article 47. The draft law amends Article 181 of the basic text. When this changes, it will look like this in practice: "The fine between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a responsible person in (1) court" (the president of the court, in the court office, in charge of someone, the registries); further "in the authority of local self-government"; the authorities of local self-government are the assembly and executive board, and these are under the secretaries; this is something else; further, gentlemen lawyers, the responsible man in the "legal chamber, professional association", artists, singers, painters, painters. Which is why it will be punished by this penalty, it is said: "if it does not deliver or deliver to the Tax Administration within the prescribed period of time prescribed notice and if it registers the establishment of legal persons and actions in the relevant register without proof of the tax paid and of the subsequent tax duties of the founders and of the previously established legal entities whose they are founders". There we said that the tax authority couldn't define the conditions under which there would be a legal person, and here it is - punishment. I don't want to argue any further, but the next sentence is the next sentence. It says, a responsible person is also punished in the administrative, or judicial authority. That's what the ministry means. The authorities are the ministries. In the judicial authority, these are different courts. If any records are arranged there, do and even further say – in the tax administration. So, employees of the IRS. Your salary has grown 250 percent since this law was passed, because your maximum sentence was 20,000, and now you have 50,000. That means you can pay that fine. The central question arises: whether the tax authority, which is essentially in the organisational sense of the administration within the Ministry of Finance, can conduct a misdemeanour against representatives of the judiciary and other levels of government. If that's the case, then what do we need the courts for? If that's the case, then we don't need judges. If that's the case, then we don't need the law, but we need a constitution with one member, in which we're going to say that everything is in this country, what releases and closes water, the will of a man. So, the Ministry of Finance directly, indirectly, indirectly is a super organ, a capital organ, a genius organ that can do anything: it can also punish judges, it can punish all levels of government. For what? For something that is essentially not their obligation to do, because they are asked to do something illegal and something that is deeply contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you adopt this law, it will, in these amendments and additions and 50 percent of the basic text, be contrary to at least 30 regulations in this country, repeat, new rules adopted from 2001 to today. I'm really surprised that the parliamentary majority can agree to anything and anything. Take care, the executive authority must be bound to the law. We make the law. Let's limit the self-will of the executive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3206	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3207	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and these amendments and additions to Article 181. In fact, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration prohibits any natural or legal person from establishing another natural or legal person if they have not paid the tax. When it comes to legal faces, I can understand it, but when it comes to physical faces, I can say it's totally incomprehensible. But at the beginning of today's debate, I said that a large number of entrepreneurs, or individuals, are not doing this job because they love him, not because it's his life commitment, but because he's had to be on some leave for a long time, paid or unpaid, because he's been working on a minimal, because he's become a technological surplus thanks to privatisation and the Labour Act, and a man has to get along as well as he can. He managed his way around the place, he'll get it with a payment deadline of six months or a year, so he decided to open an independent store, with which he provides the existence of his family, but means, the tax administration says he can't, you haven't paid an apartment, you haven't paid a real estate tax in some amount that's often not big, but the taxpayer just doesn't have the money to pay him. In this way, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is also being violated, as man is being deprived of his right to work. How to pay that little tax when he has to pay taxes on electricity, when he has to pay taxes on various communals, when he has to pay the water tax he pours out of the tap. As far as I know, the whole living world depends on water, air, and sun. Now it's just a question of when someone's gonna think that, besides water, they're gonna start taxing both the air and the sun, so this whole story can be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3208	The word is Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3209	I almost cried from this tiara. I propose that this amendment, as well as all these previous pointless amendments, the Assembly does not adopt, and as a contribution to this, I would like to stress that the MPs here all morning and part of the afternoon are being deceived. Article 7 has adopted the amendment even earlier, so there is no obligation to verify and provide evidence of tax payments in the establishment of legal entities, so these penalties do not apply to them at all. In addition, it is not true that 250% of the penalties are increased, but 150%, and this is what it looks like from these speeches by the representatives of the SRS here, who are in favour of enabling a further easy tax ejaculation. It seems to me that they are still on the course of their great leader, who said in October 1999 that we have welcomed the war with a total money mass of 10 billion dinars, and now we have 14 billion dinars, he says, and that inflation has again taken hold, so we have to print some money, he says, because who would finance all these grandiose works probably. Inflation comes to you as some kind of tax, he says, you have 100 dinars in your pocket, inflation is worth it to you, so you have 80 dinars. These are the taxes the SRS advocates.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3210	Thank you. Here you go, replica, since it's your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3211	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very serious matter. So this isn't some school competition, asking for some optional stuff on the course of some political parties. We're talking about the fact that citizens are in a very difficult situation and I can't stand these existing tax laws either, anyone who's real and who normally watches things sees it that way. In a country where the average is 12,600 dinars, and the question is just how many people have that salary, so several hundred thousand; in a country where a million and a half people don't work, in a country where you cut pensions by 4.7% the day before yesterday, where life costs are increasing and higher, no one who has that data can defend this law from that point of view. Dinkic's warning as well as the Deputy Prime Minister, but from the same mile, Miroljub Labus, from the IMF, that he must reduce the budget deficit, it is not about Serbian citizens. They know that they did not elect this government, that the government was made in such a way that the majority in the right sense of words and counterfeit, because that you have the minority support of the SPS from today to tomorrow, and the question is until when, it is not interested in the citizens of Serbia, they want a better future. They want to work, they want to have production in Serbia, they want to receive salaries, that they can come to the tax administration, and not to deceive them and keep doing it, that service is now under the control of the Ministry of Finance of this current government, people of 65 years, who, under the Immobility Tax Act, have the right to free part of the tax, or one-third, from the IRS. You're making a still tight interest rate of 0.2%, and whoever pays in a country where there's no production, nothing is done, the people are hungry. Do not deceive citizens with any famous laws anymore, this is all prescribed, this is all already established by Djelic and the former DOS regime. You are the continuity of that authority, and you will go five times worse and much faster than they have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3212	Thank you. Here's to the amendment, MP Vukic, and MP Jaksic, also on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a magnificent rally in the King yesterday, and I am saying this because one took advantage of the opportunity that when the SRS MPs are absent, and also because of the small presence of the ruling majority MPs, they come out for a pay phone and they drop the trees and stones on the SRS MPs, because they are extremely brave when there is no one in the room to answer them; then they are so brave that they amaze it; usually they are not usually silent, so they wait in front of him to announce their answer, so that his opponents may not hear it, and the journalists themselves can pass. As far as this amendment is concerned, he's rational, he's reasonable, he's something that in one part at least around the upper limit of the penalties provided makes life easier for ordinary people, and the state doesn't take much of what it would otherwise get. I think it's a basic principle and the state would have to manage it. For those of you who were talking about some great leader here and about what whoever used to say, I'll remind you of all the kinds of global fraud and petty fraud they've been serving since then to this day. In fact, at that time when the country was really in terrible shape, from the simple fact that some bombed it, so the people died, so the bridges were destroyed, so the buildings were destroyed, the buildings were destroyed, then it was necessary to fix it, then it was necessary to find money for it, while providing all other state functions, pension payments and everything else, so ways were found with different taxes and taxes. (Vladimir Humane throws out of place. Listen as I speak, I have listened carefully. So, those taxes and taxes, not only did you keep them, but you doubled them, tripled them and tripled them. You invented the name Seselj's tax, and now I ask if it was Dinkic's or Kostunica's tax, or before him Zivkovic's or Djindjic's, when everyone kept it, and only increased it by geometric progression, and then invented new ones. You've made up a lot of things that you've come to think of, that the tax has to be paid, and even the root to be thrown into the river was the tax you have to pay. There's still no taxes on the air yet, but I expect experts to come up with that soon. There is water for drinking, it is important that you have introduced the tax, so let the people know that Kostunica and Dinkic are taxes and on drinking water, or taxes. I want to tell you one more thing, don't talk to this pay phone about the great leader. We have a party president in the SRS. We don't have a leader. We have the president of the party elected at the congress, and he's elected by party delegates...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3214	Just a moment, Mr. Wolfie, please all MPs without throwing away and interrupting the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. Continue on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3215	Thank you, Mr. President, the rudeness of certain MPs never worries me, even makes me happy, because I see that they are nervous about what I'm saying. I want to get this over with. We have a party president elected at a regular congress, and neither could he pay, nor could anyone else pay, since you've picked up all the financial and mafia business in Serbia, so that he could only get it through his own idea, political programme and ideology. When you talk about leaders, you don't have a great leader. You have a little leader. As for both of you, such leaders are small and small, so do not worry about who is and how he said, and I recommend you take them from us, we will give you at lower prices, the books of Vojislav Seselj, read carefully, underline everything nicely, learn that, then you will see how much discussion will be wiser and smarter and from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3216	Replica, Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3217	First, Shessel's mobile phone tax was abolished, so more like a tax or tax burden for every mobile phone owner in this country. Don't tell the truth. Secondly, to teach you, it is not said if the congregation majority passed the law, but when the congregation majority passed the law, because the congregation majority for the adoption of this law exists. There is a reason why this law, not accepting your amendments, regulates the tax procedure and the tax administration according to a clearly defined algorithm, under which future abuses will be prevented from imposing sanctions on sugar or other products again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3218	Just call the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3219	So, Mr. Markovic, you couldn't and you couldn't give it, because I didn't see any act coming to us that the representative of the assembly majority was Mr. Prophetovic, and that paper was still no one in this assembly or in this hall, in this country has not seen. You didn't see him either. He had no right to a replica. So much so you know. Whatever it is, his political party has not been mentioned, has not been mentioned at any time. That doesn't bother me. Mr. Karaicic, behave. So, let me answer you, Mr. Prophet. Do not teach anyone, for you have nothing to teach. Do not teach those who are more educated than you and those who know more about everything than you do. I want to tell you something, Mr. Prophetovich, how sad you came out of this pay phone, we, not you, have abolished the tax on the mobile phone, because you wanted to continue with that tax. The vote by the MPs of the SRS and your mistake has been lifted. So much so you know, Mr. Prophet. So much for those lies you were talking about. Don't, Mr. Prophetic, talk to the MPs of the SRS in such a way and give lectures, because you have nothing to hold them about. I'll tell you, you'll hear now. Since some gentlemen have expressed their desire to hear, and I had no intention, believe me, I thought I'd end up with this tax on a mobile phone; therefore, Serbia had all kinds of governments. She had those that were, I'd say openly, and anti-Serbian, those that were directly directed against political opponents, and that's all they did, as the previous one. It was those who did bad or less, but Serbia has never had a more incompetent and irresponsible government than today. She never had those who represented her without knowing how and in what way to represent her. So far, the government has shown and confirmed only one thing, and that's how much they're going to rest, how much they're going to sleep and what they're going to invent on the diary afterwards. That is the essence, it is the core of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing else and nothing more has worked in her time since they came to power, since they were elected to this congregation there is one more thing. There's a group that didn't sleep inside that government. The group has been thinking all along about how to get the money in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3220	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3221	... They managed to get their hands on money in Serbia because they literally took over all financial institutions, money, money and only money. It was never done by JUL as one part of the Serbian government does today. You are thinking about whether or not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see it. With these tricks, there's no more tax, so no more, but because you're wrong and because with your JUL, these financial frauds and manipulants, these white-world thieves, you haven't been able to agree on one or two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3222	Thank you. There's no reason. I don't like being rude as much as people stand up for it. It's the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, let me finish, Mr. Karaičić, I am obliged to inform MP Vukic because he asked for a pay phone. So I have been informed that he is deputy head of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, Mr. Prophetovic. I'll check with technical services if it's delivered to all MPs, I'll check it out. It is mentioned – Vojislav Kostunica and I remind you once again what the parties in this assembly are called, DSS – Vojislav Kostunica is called a parliamentary group whose representative is Mr. Prorokovic. That's why I had to give the replica, as you have now, since you've reported to the Rules of Procedure, I have to give the replica to Mr. Prophetic, and then Mr. Karaicic came forward as a personal reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3223	Very short. As far as Seselj's mobile phone tax is concerned, the amendment to the Law on Taxes to be abolished was submitted by Mr Milutin Svetovic, a DSS MP from Gornji Milanovac. I'm not as trained as you are, and maybe because I haven't read the book of Vojislav Seselj about the heroic son of Saddam Hussein, and I don't think those books in my political education would help me much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3224	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3225	I have the right to a replica, because I'm mentioned by my last name. This is what I'm going to say to Mr. Wolf, very personal and very directly. You see, I've never talked about anyone's decency, about how much he throws away and when he throws away. I even think I'm very courteous, unlike some of your colleagues, but when I talk about decency, I think what you've been doing for months, two months and before is very rude. There were no days when you didn't break the Rules of Procedure by not dropping cards, when you talked about everything and everything, and just not about the subject and when you're going after this pay phone campaign, when it's neither her place nor her time. Therefore, to tell anyone that she's rude, you have no right, and I ask you to take care of your decency and your conduct whenever you say that to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3226	On the basis of Article 94. I'm giving the Rules of Procedure a break by 15.00 hours, so the groups can consult. [[After break – 15:30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, before we check the quorum, since more MPs have asked me to say now and not at the end of today's session, it won't work tomorrow, but when we're done this afternoon, it'll be Monday. Please confirm the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to put in their MP cards. I find that 89 MPs are present in the O.R., which is a quorum for work. We're continuing our work. We've stopped at the replica of MP Wolfiche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3228	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I am expressing a protest, although it doesn't mean much to you, because of the way you broke up the morning part of the session and it's not the first time. It has become a practice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that every time you don't like someone, when you need one of the opposition, especially from the SRS champions, to go out for a pay phone, set a break and say - now there's no time. Then you tell the press, even though you did it without reason, how you did it to calm down your passions. You're a representative of the government, it's yours to calm down the passions, you generate them always, it can never be done by the opposition, and you had to do it on the members of the regime, not the members of the opposition. To take the opportunity to say what I was going to say. The incendiary speech is about what books Vojislav Seselj wrote. He wrote a lot of them, he worked a lot. Someone likes his ideas, someone doesn't like them. Unlike your president, who wrote two books, one of them is very recognizable to him - Social Self-Government, as co-author with Mr. Ratko Markovic, who is a great expert though; I guess he got tired of writing those two books and in 25 years he failed to do anything else. As for Mr. Seselj and what he did, he always published, because he didn't say a word of his own, and he never took it back. Since I see that you constantly and particularly like to talk about the real and false defence of national and state interests, so I see that you and Tomislav Nikolic are trying to impose something in the election campaign that he didn't say, but you're putting it in his mouth, so I'm going to remind you of something that you've been doing, why it's better to keep your mouth shut and don't say anything about it. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, what Vojislav Seselj wrote, he wrote many good books, I would recommend that you read "The Ideology of Serbian Nationalism". A very good and very serious book and it's good that you read it. I'm sure you've learned a lot from it, but I hope you'll read it next time, because for the first time, your president, Mr. Kostunica, didn't read it, when he was letting the Shyptarian terrorists go free for 2000. I hope that next time you will read well what crimes they have committed and what misdemeanors they have committed before you give them pardon, because in this way the difference is not concerned, not about the Serbian, but about the interests of this state, about the interests of the Serbian citizens, and in particular you should look at how many of the those released by Vojislav Kostunica are on the loose, not by looking at what they are responsible for, for which the heavy or most serious crimes are burdened, how many of them were involved... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in crimes against Serbs on March 17th and 18th or any other day. I would ask you not to speak with any respect to the leader of any opposition party, or the largest party in Serbia, if you will, especially if it is not in a position to respond here, it is in no way possible for him to answer you, because he cannot hear his children, let alone speak to the political public. To you who spoke of rudeness and decency, it is about Mr. Karaičić, since he spoke of how rude those who have been acting like this for two months are. How? By putting up with the amendments? By wanting to talk... (President: Four minutes, be kind enough to finish. )......................................................................................................... about every law? I will be, Mr. Markovic. By working on every law? By proposing acts as well or more than the Serbian government? Many are not even put on the agenda. There are four months since we put the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatization into the Assembly procedure and is not yet on the agenda. How many months are there that we put the law on legalization, popularly named, its formal name, in the procedure? It is not on the agenda yet, because what interests Serbian citizens is not interested, because you do not want it to be on the agenda. What's rudeness? We go out for a pay phone and we stand up to you? That we can express our opposition attitude? Is that rude? Did we do something that wasn't cultural, raised or I don't know what? That we won't let you call us contagious and snotty because we're from the SRS, it doesn't occur to us. That's what part of your government says, which is being naive and who doesn't know what it's about, how or what it's talking about. (President: Five minutes, Mr. Wolfie, please be kind, three minutes is a replica. Be kind and bring an end to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I will, Mr Markovic, as I hope this country will, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, and within the framework of the Constitution, have the strength, since there is no power now, to deal with all the godmothers of the mafia that govern Serbia today, which has not shown any interest so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3229	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3230	It's a good thing you're asking which one's a member. I could have come from the speaker of the chair, because that's in the description of the obligation, to give an interpretation if someone thinks that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, but since many have not learned the Rules of Procedure, we must, in order to clarify and calm unnecessary tensions, to say what happened. Some of them weren't very courteous yesterday. So, Article 81, I'll read you the end of the first bet -- the National Assembly is held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in 10 to 1800 hours, with a break of one hour. There's no time defined for that interruption. Also, Article 94, which I called today, when I obeyed not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the experience. Yesterday here, at the same time, something between 13:00 and 14:00 hours, while it was their turn to speak to the ruling coalition MPs, I really have no intention of making a difference between MPs, Mr Mircic asked the President of the Assembly to use the right of Article 94, because there was obviously a great tension in the hall. He said -- please, you're entitled to Article 94, so people calm down a little bit, take a break, and people will calm down, and then they'll keep going. I did the same thing today. It was tension. I really don't know who's up. I took your advice yesterday, Mr. Mircic. Please, I think it's good for everyone, first of all for the citizens of Serbia, not to listen to just fighting and to listen to different political opinions and positions and opposition in a good tone. But, of course, the prerequisite is to respect the rules of the game. This Rules of Procedure provides for rules. I didn't bring it, I wasn't in the Assembly. It's mine to follow these rules of play or to whoever's in that place, whether one of the vice presidents or presidents. It's my duty, and I respect them. I'll be doing business every time. I cannot force or more specifically do not want those who do not want to work in the Rules of Procedure to, therefore, do, aside from the reminders, when the time is three minutes for the replica, five minutes for the amendment, it is not difficult to learn, to respect each other and when the chairman of the reminders, which always does, at least while I was present, and whether Mrs. Pop-Lazic is leading, whether Mr. Mihailovic, Ms. Krstic or I are, always making that remark discreetly, and when the time has passed for the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to respect the time of each other and the time of the citizens of Serbia, and in the future, of course, whatever some do not want... (President: Time. Remind me, it's time. (President: I've already done it. I'm finishing up really... And I will still try to make the law apply to everything, regardless of what many want the law to do to them does not apply. Serbian citizens want the law to apply to everything, and the assembly is there to show that it respects it. Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not, Mr Markovic, resented your anti-business or non-business behavior. I resented what you did with a clear political intention and what all Serbian citizens have seen. So, at the moment I should have said what I thought about what my predecessors said, the representatives of the regime, you interrupted the session and said that we would continue later, although it was not divine what tensions but the usual political debates. Nothing more or less than we had an hour, two or three before that. It's not just yours, it was done four days ago, either six days ago, last Friday, when one of the vice presidents did it the same way when I asked for a word. Somehow, it seems to me that it happens most often when one of the Serbian radicals asks for the right to answer. I don't mind if you do, I don't mind if you give us some warning. That the law doesn't apply to everything confirms the number of warnings we've received. I got the most of them in this assembly of parliament, and I'm telling you that, except for one, you can't remember what I got them for, which I said that word or offensive term. The hardest thing was what I told Mr. Dinkic and that, I suppose, you can remember. I guarantee everything else that you can't, because I don't know why you told me these warnings either. I'm asking you, therefore, that you have the same arches for everyone, that you don't act like someone who needs to help someone in power, and then in the break room -- how we've managed to trick them now, have you seen what we've done to them now, we haven't given them any answers. It's a policy that won't yield any results for a short, let alone a long time. On the other hand, as far as the law goes, the laws for all are long gone. For some less, for some more, even in this National Assembly. I call on you to prosecute criminals, I hear that there are different kinds of insinuations, and instead of telling the press in the towers and making up, I'm asking the representatives of the regime, but also representatives of some opposition parties, to go out for a pay phone and tell them everything they have, not to invent somewhere where we don't have a chance to answer. Go after all criminals, go after all those who have done anything against Serbia, and don't interrupt it, but don't go after those who belonged to those before you, without chasing those with whom you are in cahoots. Don't only make Miodrag Kostic guilty. If he is guilty of going to prison, but let Vuk Hamovic go, and Vojin Lazarevic and their godmothers, all the way to the head of the office of Vojislav Kostunica, who is also the godfather of Vojin Lazarevic, so think about it. All the best men together, all the mobsters together, go to jail. It's law and justice for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3233	Anyone else want a word? By amendment. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3234	To accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, they should be heard in a reasonable and quiet atmosphere, and we may vote for them the next day. Here, however, when people such as the Serbian Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, are being told that they should vote in favour of the Serbian Radical Party's amendments. Obviously, such debauchery of people, such as Vojislav Kostunica, does not make this Serbia have a peaceful atmosphere, where laws will be passed and where people will be satisfied with the style among politicians. I will remind you that Vojislav Kostunica, among other things, has done that here we all vote unanimously or equally for our position on resolving the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3235	The theme, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3236	You are a young man, Mr. Vukic, you may not know it, but at the time you were born, at the time Vojislav Kostunica, precisely because of the Kosovo and Metohija issues, lost his job as a teacher at the Law Faculty and as a young assistant, he lost his ability to write these powerful books. I won't comment on what the president of your party wrote down. I think it's tasteless and you'll never hear from the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia... (President: Theme, please. )......................................................................................................... that in any way they criticize the work of Vojislav Seselj, as long as he is in prison in The Hague. Out of elemental decency, we will not muddle people like that, nor mention them in a negative context. We don't want their position to be difficult in any way, but I think you as a young man should have an elementary respect for the Prime Minister of the Republic and do not twist the facts, especially the facts of Mr Vojislav Kostunica's biography.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3237	Mr. Matić, I warned you twice. It's hard to say the warnings, I've only said one thing to Mr. Vukic, and I've said most of them to the ruling coalition, but please, once again, let's stick to the subject and to what we're here for, and these are amendments, and that's the law that's on the agenda. Now straight to the replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3238	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Matic, and it would be good for his colleagues to stick to what he said. I didn't tell you, and first of all, that story about the protection of the character and the actions of anyone doesn't tang much, because I've never suffered from idolatry, but never before, and everyone who knows me, and I don't think I'm young, I've had two children and I've been in politics for a long time, but those who know me well know that I didn't suffer from idolatry and they know that if I thought otherwise, I was allowed to express my opinion in front of Vojislav Seselj and anyone else. You won't hesitate me with that story about the protection of the character and the actions of the Serbian prime minister in what I was going to say. I didn't tell a single lie and I wasn't talking about the Prime Minister's biography. I was talking about the mafia connection regime with key mobsters in Serbia. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't say it was Kostunica, but Kostunica's chief of staff is best man. So, the best man is Kostunica's chief of staff and Vojin Lazarevic, which I said directly to the Committee of Auditors. I'm not worried that he's his best man, I'm worried about something else, and he's here as chief of staff, and he can't do a lot of things as chief of staff. I am concerned that you, the second best man, Željko Popovic, placed him in the middle of the Bureau's work as Director General of NIS. You put him directly, even though he's the best man, even though he was involved in setting up godfather-mafian businesses. Of course, you're going to say that by decision 3:2 or 3:3, and one wasn't there, you've made a decision that it's not exactly like that and it's not 100% as safe as I say it is. But let the citizens judge it, let the citizens judge it. So these are the facts. I didn't even talk about whether Vojislav Kostunica was for that confederal constitution in 1974 or not, or whether it was the subject of my debate, or whether I wanted to talk about it, or what we're discussing today has anything to do with it. So, what I was talking about, it's that the government must not protect those close to it, because they were sponsored once, because they were doing other services to them, because they were doing something else for their political parties, when they were in opposition and because they were getting close to them in time, because they were criticising whether the previous regime or not knew who they were. That's the point. The law must apply to everything. The law, as it stands for me, seems to us in the SRS a little more in this congregation than in the others. We don't mind, so be it, but you are and always take care of it, that's what we said to those of the previous government -- the regime is always responsible for the conflicts on the political scene. (President: Time. ) You of us have not received an answer that we will appear on the streets when you find it difficult and work against the state. Did you ever get any anti-state policy or response from the SRS? No, I don't. Are we forced to destroy power? No, I don't. What bothers you - that we stand up to you here in the congregation? We will continue to do it in a democratic way. It's the only way we want to change power in Serbia. Don't make us go any different. We're proud that way. (President: Time. We did so in the preceding period, and with 23, we reached 82 MPs. Of course, we don't know what's going to happen, we'll see what happens, but we hope and expect that with 82, then we have 132 MPs as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3239	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to article 47? National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3240	In this discussion, we were completely off topic. We seem to be very little interested in the proposed law and the proposed amendment, so it's not bad to go back to the topic itself. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, I think it is good to re-present one fact to this meeting and the citizens of Serbia, which is the fact that the adoption of amendments to Article 7 of the proposed law removes a kind of obstacle, i.e. taxpayers under the bill can, although they have not settled their tax obligations, register legal persons, i.e. companies and actions. I think that's exactly one part of what's in the SRS amendment and requested. What's in the draft of this amendment is said to be interesting for the discussion. It has been stated that the criminal policy, i.e. the level of penalties provided for by the proposal for infringements committed in the area of tax, is something that affects economic growth. By my estimate, I don't see any connection. I don't think the majority of those present see the existence of a link between criminal policy for something which is a tax offense and economic growth, except that the introduction of this kind of criminal policy will raise, apparently, the liability of taxpayers, and the increased liability of taxpayers will also affect the dynamics of budget filling, and the budget currently in force and which is voted in this assembly has, apart from those other aspects, that development aspect. It is the only way to link Serbia's economic development to the amount of penalties proposed in the bill. It has also been elaborated by some other speakers, as well as by the amendment's promoter himself, again the the thesis that what is the penalty is something that is an obligation relating to all taxpayers. I must again point out that punishment is not an obligation relating to taxpayers, but only applies to taxpayers who break the law. That's where we all get along. Finally, on the link between the Republic of Serbia's budget and the criminal policy provided for by this law and any other law, and related to criminal measures against criminal offences, I will personally be very pleased, and I believe that G17 plus as a party, that no single fine for the tax offence committed enters Serbia's budget, because this will mean that taxpayers behave responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3241	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Mr. Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3242	In addition to what I said last time about the Charter of Human Rights, which no one has looked back on, which is the essential thing in modern world relations, and especially European relations, I want to say one more thing that I think is very important, which nobody here has in mind. It is that such a range of penalties and such great penalties can increase corruption, which otherwise exists in our ranks, especially in the ranks of tax authorities. It's one big danger. That's why I'm warning the government that even from that point of view, it's going to take care to reduce these penalties, so as not to let the state policy be compromised as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3243	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jován Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Đuricic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Mr. Djuric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am going out for this pay phone for the first time, I will point out that I belong to the largest parliamentary group in this room, the group of SRS. I came to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia with the will of the municipality of Kula. I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. My amendment reads, "Article 48 is deleted." I believe that the existing solution is more appropriate, for the reason that Article 48 of this bill says that in Article 182 of this proposal, in recital 1, the number "20,000" is replaced by "50,000". In Article 182 of this proposal, the law states that a responsible person will be punished in the Organisational Unit of the Tax Administration, which is why those persons can be punished. However, my amendment refers to the height of that sentence. The current law threatens the fine from 5,000 to 20,000 dinars for the responsible person of the tax administration if it commits a violation under Article 182 of this law. I believe that this is a sufficient amount of punishment, since the same person in the event of a violation of Article 182 of this law sanctions and criminal liability, because a fine of 20,000 dinars is significant in relation to standards and receipts in Serbia. If Mr. Minister wants the responsible persons in the tax administration to do their job in order and law, they must seek more appropriate solutions, such as greater control of those persons, stimulation of personal incomes, and not to be stimulated by taxpayers to make mistakes. Why does Mr. Minister, if he claims there is no inflation in Serbia, raises penalties, for example 150%, and there is something wrong. Compared to the existing law, this bill differs in a few members, except for those relating to the level of punishment. The minister obviously doesn't want the law to regulate the tax administration as he's trying to convince us, but at any cost he wants to fill his budget with fines and impositions, not how he talks, by producing. The minister cannot begin to apply the famous programme of the expert team, known in Serbia as "new July". Let the minister remember the previous election campaign, while attacking that unfortunate "God's Decoricose," as the people say. According to everything that is happening to us now, as we live and do, Boza was a children's game compared to current Minister Dinkic, when it comes to fines and impositions. It seems to the minister that we Serbian radicals, as well as the people of Serbia, do not understand the minister and his good intentions. We seem to have to close our eyes and listen to the minister's story of progress and improvement. Fellow Members of the People, I invite you to vote in favour of my amendment for one simple reason – which is realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3245	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3246	Tax relations are a public-law relationship, where the state body is one side, and the other side is a taxpayer, so it was a natural or legal person. With this member of the bill, which is Article 48, the proposer is practically amnesting Bozidar Djelic and the previous government, because it does not touch the basic text of the law, but only increases the maximum amount of fines for violations, in the position of the 1st infringements committed by the responsible persons in the organisational unit of the tax administration and in the position of 2nd official persons of the tax administration. Since that is the case, then the official of the tax administration can commit an offence and receive a sentence from a colleague who is in the next office, and has been authorised to conduct a misdemeanour procedure, because the tax procedure does not treat the taxpayer with respect and respect, it writes. It may seem funny, it may seem pointless, but that's how it's written. Experts came up with it that way. I have to tell you that it's probably an injury, but it can't possibly be an injury to the level of the offense, it's something disciplinary, because it's happening inside the organs, inside the same house. If you think that such provisions can suit tax officials in relation to taxpayers, then give us a report to see how many people who work in the IRS are punished for this offence and what it looks like when a colleague from the next office punishes his colleague on the counter. But to make clarity even more meaningful, you have a person authorized to conduct an infringement procedure in a tax authority before which to conduct proceedings against the responsible person of an organisational unit, which means the director of a branch. Now, the branch director misrepresents the referent, it says, it's the only way to interpret it. If we accept this logic, then it can practically happen that the employees of a ministry misbehaved because they didn't say "good day" when the party came. Of course, I'm not arguing with the point of rudeness, it's rude, it's probably an injury, probably a violation of labour discipline and a violation of official duty, but there can be no offense, there are no violations in that store. At times, it is prescribed by law that they may be perpetrators of an offence, but it is unnatural, because that person comes forward in the name of the state and needs to be misrepresented. This newspaper on the criminal liability of civil servants dates back to three or four years, and earlier, in exceptional cases, it was only in several regulations. You see, or he says, he's denied free notice and instruction and a colleague from the next office will punish him. By all logical and other possible means of conclusion, it can only be a violation of the work discipline and violation of a order that exists in the organ, there can be no violation. But since there is something even more pointless in the previous article, that a tax officer, authorized to conduct a misdemeanour procedure, can conduct a criminal case against the court's responsible person, the barrister, and who knows which institutions and even local self-government bodies, then this is really a minor injury to the previous one that is a mental wreck.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3247	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished representatives of the ministry and respected journalists, when this speaker is spoken of by taxpayers, it is often in two extremes. A number of people treat them as thieves who, at any cost, need to be forced, in one way or another, to give up something that is not theirs in one's opinion, and some people like Bogoljub Karic speak of them as the largest possible host in Serbia. They're both making a mistake. The state has an obligation to pay taxes in a regulated manner, not to harm the dignity of taxpayers, to enter the budget and serve its purpose. And that state officials, i.e. tax authorities, collect the tax in a manner prescribed by law, strictly making sure that they do not violate the regulation without taking as much tax revenue as possible by dynamics and absolutes as possible. It would be a great happiness if such an economic and state environment were created that taxpayers, first of all, would get a chance to work normally and in accordance with the tax law, and it would also be very important to create conditions for tax collectors, or their obligations under the law, to carry out so that none of them has any harm and that all Serbian citizens benefit. This is the essence of state functioning and it is important when we talk about taxpayers, taxes as categories and citizens who can be taxpayers or budget users. Once after this pay phone, a long time ago, I quoted a brilliant peasant from the Takave-mining area, years ago, when a dog-holding tax was introduced. He wrote on a big board of dogs, who he had previously killed and nailed to the municipal door – I killed you for tax, now let him bark like a cut. I apologize for this quote. A few people wrote that down in a book. Citizens have a very precise attitude towards the state when tax is collected. The state must make sure that it does so to respect taxpayers, but it has a duty when taxpayers break the law to deal with them as only possible. I'm close to what Mr Krasic was talking about. No one should worry and no one should be afraid if they are adequately treated by tax officials who are unconsciously doing their job and who are doing damage to the taxpayers, and the state itself, and do not contribute to the reputation of the tax service, which does not mean that they are always right or that they are always wrong, as others would say. That precisely means that we need to bring in, and that is our business, such laws that are understandable to taxpayers, which will ensure that tax officials do their job so that it does no harm to anyone and that we all benefit from it. Since I do not have all the elements, I apologize to Mr Krasic, I will study what you have said and I will make it clear and consult if it is possible to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3249	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 54, where I ask that the word "order" be replaced by the word "eight"; therefore, not the next day, but the eighth day of the day of publication. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulated the way the law was brought into force. Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads: "The law, the second regulation or general act shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." Under particularly justified reasons, it is considered an elemental disaster, such as the one that happened some year ago in the Valley area, so we had to pass the law in the congregation and immediately come into force to help people whose earthquake had torn down their homes. In particular, the reasons are justified to prevent enormous material damages that can be caused by the failure of that law to apply. In particular, the reasons are also a case of immediate danger to the public and to the state. A case of unforeseen circumstances may also be considered a particularly justified reason. When we said the elemental disaster, I think that since that October 2000 all the laws that this assembly has passed were to come into force immediately, because the biggest elemental disaster that could have happened to Serbia is the coming of DOS to power and it continues to this day. There is no reason for the urgent application of the law immediately after the entry into force, except I saw yesterday that our minister Dinkic was already leaking water on his mouth how much money he would collect the moment the law passed, so there is no time for a man to wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3251	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – I would like to inform you that the following representatives of individual parliamentary groups are authorised to discuss the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators and the proposal for a law on the Agency for Business Registers: DSS, the authorised representative is Vojkan Tomic, DS – Boris Tadic, the authorised representative is the National MP Slobodan Pajović, G17 Plus, the authorised representative is Mr Zeljko Ivanji, the SPS, the authorised representative of Jovan Todorovic and the SRS, the authorised representative is Mr Zoran Krasic. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Branislav Ristivojevic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. SRS – hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS – hour three minutes and 36 seconds, DS – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPO-NS – 26 minutes and 24 seconds, SPS – 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three Social Democratic Party MPs, five minutes each, and Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities and the Proposal for a Law on an Agency for Business Registers. The word has a minister of economic relations with abroad, Dr Predrag Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Chairman, you have before you a package of laws that should allow the system of registration of new business entities in Serbia to be among the best in Europe in its speed, urgency and efficiency. The unique and fast registration of economic operators is of great importance. This is clearly indicated by the following facts. A small company in Serbia employs five people on average. If 200,000 new small businesses are established in Serbia, millions of new jobs will be created and the problem of the same number of unemployed will be solved. It is true that the adoption of these laws will not automatically open mentioning a million jobs. However, I remind you, registration of companies or shops is the first step to start business. Do not allow entrepreneurship in the economy to stumble at its first step. The existing registration system is the impediment of economic development. The system has been assessed in a number of analyses as detimulative for the development of businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises. His reform has been identified as one of the priorities of regulatory reform. I note that the analyses are conducted precisely within those institutions, whose assessment lowers or raises a ramp for foreign investment. Among other things, such an assessment was given by the World Bank, USAID, GTZ, the Economic Institute, the G17 Plus Institute. What are the problems of the current system and registration identified? The existing registration system is complicated. It wasn't possible to carry him out without professional help from a lawyer. Developed countries are constantly simplifying the already simple registration system. Electronic registration is possible in some countries. For example, in Ireland and the United States. The registration procedure is expensive, costs are too high compared to the per capita social product compared to the European environment. Registered data bases are out of line with market needs. They're not centralised or even connected. Data on registered entities are not reliable. Such databases are unusable for statistical and economic analysis, which should serve as a basis for identifying development policy in the economy and its segments. They are difficult to reach and untransparent to interested persons, making business in our country risky. The big problem also creates measurement in the decision-making process. The judge reads the registration application and the accompanying documentation, and then orders to edit the documentation as it interprets the law. One judge has one opinion, the other one, and this practice of registration makes it unequal. This creates legal uncertainty for economic operators. In the current registration system, the judge decides, which is very irrational. The time of the high-skilled frame has been spent. However, despite all the shortcomings, many will wonder, why we did not take as a starting point the existing system and make a certain improvement. The answer is simple. Because by transition compared to other countries in the environment, we've been late for 10 years, so cosmetic changes wouldn't solve anything. In order to overcome this delay and outreach the other countries in transition, we have handled the very thing that represents best European practice in creating this law. The government has the obligation and interests to influence the rapid registration of economic operators, and in the democratic system the executive influence on judicial authority is unacceptable. When creating a new system of registration, we managed the following objectives. We wanted to establish a single register of economic operators in Serbia, as an electronic, central database, which will include all economic operators now registered in 16 trade courts and all entrepreneurs registered in 161 municipalities. The unique registry will be run by one institution, the Agency for Business Registers. In addition to the register of economic operators, the Agency will also run the stock register and the lising register, allowing economic operators to verify and register data relevant to legal traffic in one place. Furthermore, the data registered for each of the forms of economic operators has been defined in accordance with EU directives in this area, which will facilitate the process of adapting our legal system to EU requirements in the EU accession process. We have foreseen clear criteria for registration, which will prevent different interpretations of the rules. This will ensure that all potential entrepreneurs and businessmen are treated equally, as there will be a uniformity of practice and registration, regardless of where the physical exercise is carried out. We speeded up and simplified the registration procedure for business entities. The registration procedure cannot last longer than five days. The registration process is so simple that businesses won't need to hire lawyers to register. The new registration system provides the public with all registered data and documents on the basis of which registration has been made without proof of legal interest, which is in line with European directives. Allowing the translation of economic operators into the status "inactive" creates conditions for updating the register. We limit the fees the Agency charges for its services at a level that provides for its self-financing. It guarantees a cheap registration, but it doesn't bother the Agency's work. What are the expected results of the change and adoption of this law? The reform of the company registration process should stimulate the local private sector; reduce the grey economy and corruption and accelerate investment and job creation by facilitating the creation of new and growth and development of existing businesses; improve Serbia's competitiveness and attract foreign investment by leading to the establishment of a company register, which would be in line with best European practice. It also needs to improve economic statistics in Serbia and provide ministries and other users with up-to-date and reliable information on economic operators. Finally, gentlemen, the adoption of the proposed rules will significantly improve the legal framework for the development of Serbia's economy. We will enter a line of countries where it is easy and cheap to do business. In other words, we will allow the establishment of a system of registration of economic operators, which will be among the most modern in the environment. Therefore, the registration process of economic operators will become a comparative advantage of our economic system from the foreign investment brake. We have entered an era where accurate and timely information in the business world has invaluable value, the proposed changes will allow the rapid and simple flow of information on economic operators. Anyone from anywhere in the world will be able to check data on a potential partner from a laptop, which will encourage businesses to expand their business and new investments. The proposed registration system will also be free of the tradition of state control of the economy and the concept of which the start of business is not the right, but is a privilege that is obtained only after a detailed investigation and approval. The adoption of the proposed law on the Agency for Business Registers also completes a set of laws already passed, including the Law on Financial Lising and the Law on Publishing Law on mobile matters entered in the register. This law is necessary for their implementation. This also creates conditions for the formation of "out of the shop", as users will be able to register in one place, submit a financial report, register or contract on financial leases, as well as check out data on already made enrolments and receive copies of the documentation from the register. It is necessary to pass this law urgently, given that without its adoption it is not possible to implement the Law on Capital Law on mobile matters entered in the register and the Financial Lising Act. Namely, the registers envisioned by these laws have not yet been formed, which has a significant impact on the slow development of the financial lease in Serbia, which provides an ideal way for the poor economy to improve, to obtain the resources needed to start production. It is also important that a donation was concluded on 8 January 2004 between the World Bank and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro at the amount of 13 million Swedish crowns to establish and start the register of economic operators. of an opportunity of 1.4m euros. The donation was awarded for the realisation of a specific legal project, the establishment of a register of economic operators and the launch of a registration in accordance with the existing proposal for a registration of economic operators. The donation must be realised by 31.8.2004 and it is specified exactly what the funds can be spent on. Given the duration of the procurement process for equipment and software, for which most of the donation funds are intended, the implementation of donations is at stake. In order to make donation funds operational, a law on the registration of economic operators and a law on the Agency for Economic Registers should be adopted. This is necessary to do as quickly as possible, so that the donation funds will not be lost. In that case, compliance with these rules with European Union rules would be burdened by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which should avoid the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, I would like to stress once again that by adopting the proposed rules, we will allow the implementation of the principles set by the European Union in this area to speed up the process of approximation to the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3253	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS, followed by MP Zeljko Ivanji, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, then MP Vojkan Tomic, the authorised DSS representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3254	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that we have two good draft laws ahead of us. To the truth of will,... (President: Please let us listen to the speaker.) )......................................................................................................... The previous assembly of this National Assembly had the same draft laws, but under the circumstances they did not enter into the procedure, and we did not decide on them. I see Mr. Bubalo, as an authorised minister, is optimistic about the application of these laws, and I'm not quite ready to share his optimism. Here's why. Today in Serbia, we have registered 250,000 businesses, of which only 90,000 have active status. About 160,000 economic operators are not active today. The general objective of these and previous governments, and I think the general majority, including minorities, is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and is the achievement of a figure of around 400,000 businesses, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, but in the status of active enterprises. Now there's an important, fundamental question here -- why these registered 160,000 companies aren't active, and how we and what economic policy and government and government in total are going to come to have 400,000 businesses, but active ones. I think Mr. Secretary can, even today, give a complete or at least partial answer to this question, but since I'm considering things from a practical point of view, I'd remind you of the following. For you today to establish a small or medium-sized enterprise or any commercial entity under the Company Act, minimum founding capital is $5,000. Whoever wants to start a company, that capital has to pay into two wars. That's the greatest convenience he's got. In time, while the Socialists ruled in Serbia, there were at least no such demands throughout the period, but companies could also be set up with founding capital, multiple lower, at that time for 100 marks or today 100 euros. The question that goes with it is - how to provide these 5,000 euros. For me, that's the point. For these 160,000, I believe that at least half of them have inactive status just because they failed to provide adequate initial, i.e. founding capital. If we now have 90,000 active companies to get to 400,000 active companies, then that's 310,000 new companies, times 5,000 euros is equal to $1,550,000. Where's the money? Is there any way, now I'm talking about the essence, that the state, by its economic policy, first of all, of the one relating to economic ties with abroad, provides favourable loans, not to say donations, and that through the Development Fund or some other funds, those who have decided to start a small or medium-sized enterprise, approves favourable loans for the establishment of such small and medium-sized enterprises. So far, the practice suggests that the government has not thought enough about it or thought that one who does not have $5,000 should not be involved in any business. Unfortunately, the situation in the Serbian economy is this: you have about 1,200,000 employees, you have about 1,000 workers – unemployed, and you have over 1,000 pensioners. So those 1,200,000 last at least these 2,200,000, plus some other citizens who are inactive. Who's got the money now? The state needs to find mechanisms to encourage the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, first of all, I would say, in two areas: one is the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will, predominantly, have export-related jobs. Because we have an incredible export situation, that is, imports and external trade deficits. Take only the first few months and you'll see that the foreign trade deficit has already been around $1 million.000,000. If it continues this way, in 2004, it will end with over 6,000,000 000 foreign trade deficits and it is a disaster for the state, the economic power that Serbia has. Therefore, the first incentives must be precisely in these companies that will deal with export operations, but not only in the commercial sense, but above all in the development of small production, those which are export-oriented, those which can be competitors in such a harsh European market. The second area must be agriculture, and one that is export-oriented, but also one that is not. The third area, I think we can quite agree on that, is the area of service, because in that area, I think, with the lowest initial capital, some work can begin. Let's see if exactly the corporate registration mechanisms are going to be so fast that it allows one who wants to start a company that only takes five days. It is not clear to me that, in the future, those who want to establish an enterprise will have to have a corresponding statistical number, which they receive in the Statistics Office, will they have to have the corresponding customs number, which they receive in the Republic Customs Administration, will they still have the tax identification number, which they will receive in the Tax Administration? Will they have to collect all of this before they file to the register responsible for registering new businesses and whether all of this can fit within that five-day period? Or we'll have a completely opposite situation, when you collect the relevant documents, when you want to register a limited liability company, then the agency authorized to register informs the tax administration, customs administration, the Statistics Service that the X-Employed Company, to which such and such a number should be assigned, and then the founder is relieved of the obligation to go from the counter to the counter, to wait for weeks or months for the corresponding identification numbers in those organisations. This is about European experiences. We, in part, have European experiences in our system today, but which countries? In Germany, Austria, France, we have approximately the present situation, because in these countries, companies and companies with limited liability are necessarily registered in courts, and entrepreneurs are registered in organisations, bodies or institutions such as those proposed by this law today. It is said in the explanation that this is not a very good example, that better examples are Scandinavian countries, Ireland or Italy. I'd agree with that if we didn't have a bunch of entrepreneurs registered in municipal business secretaries. It's true, here it says about 160 people or at least 160 workers are employed in municipal administrations on these jobs. We now need to move this job to the central register and I'm afraid the deadlines given in this law are very short.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3255	Excuse me, Mr. Todorovic, do you want to use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3256	I'll use it to finish the story, but I don't want 10 minutes. I even suggested an amendment to exempt entrepreneurs from this story. Then I realized that it would spoil the whole concept of this law and I would withdraw that amendment because I don't know how municipal economic secretaries would behave in case companies were registered in this register and entrepreneurs stayed in municipalities. It must be taken with caution that these entrepreneurs registered in municipal business secretariats pay adequate taxes to these municipalities, i.e. their budgets and fees mainly to the company's tax. If you move all of this to some central register, the question is how many municipal administrations will be able to have proper records, especially in this transitional period until all of this is followed. When I look at who needs to do this job, then I see that this job needs to be done again by one agency, and, if it wasn't for that regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the abolition of some nine agencies, I was prepared to propose to the amendment that this agency law is not called that, but rather by the law on registration rather than the agency. Because the right to tell you, I'm full of these agencies, and I trust you as MPs, because I don't think any of you in the O.R. knows how much we actually have an agency. We're about to have an agency for the agencies, and that basically means that we're the essential authority, which stems from the jurisdiction of certain ministries, passed on to bodies that are illegal under the law, under the Constitution, even unauthorized, and have become extraordinary centres of power and decision-making, so strong and powerful that I sometimes feel that our lives are ruled by agencies. I have seen the government think in a way that should reduce the unnecessary number of these agencies, and therefore I have not submitted an amendment relating to the name itself. I'd like to remind you that there is no law on financial leases or law enforcement unless this agency starts working as much as tomorrow. We've brought these laws in time, but in life we have a lot of problems because we have nowhere to register financial leases, we have nowhere to register lease jobs, especially those related to foreign affairs, when it comes to providing new technologies, when it comes to equipment security, and also when it comes to domestic producers of certain funds, which, based on the lease as the most favourable form of labour security, we can obtain. So I urge that the Ministry of Economy, as soon as possible, actually go into the realisation of this job. Finally, one more question. The existing entities, which are now registered in courts, also have an obligation to reregister. I think it's 15 June next year, if I haven't made a mistake. What happens, even if it's a free translation, if one of these companies isn't registered in this register? As far as I understand the law, they will be translated into inactive status, and will that suit real, real life? He won't. It might be a better provision if the courts were in charge that already registered legal entities were unilaterally registering in that central register and that thing was clean. Why now would someone do something that he did in his own time, fulfilling all the conditions required by law?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3257	The word is Zeljko Ivanji, then Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two legislative proposals before us that I can say that I support them almost 100%, for the simple reason that I know what kind of problem these two laws are dealing with and what problems in practice we have encountered in registering businesses and entrepreneurs. I also want to say that it is true that these two laws were in the procedure of the previous government's mandate, only it took the previous government three years to enter the procedure. I remember in 2000 and a few days after October 5th, a few of us recognized the problem, of course from G17 plus, and we simply started with a proposal for a project to register business entities in one place and to be removed from a trade court, or then a commercial court. At that point, we had a registration in a commercial court. That registration lasted as long as it lasted, from the moment you filed a request to obtain a solution, and you could never know when you'd get the registration solution. That was a big problem. Then we faced this problem, especially with the principle of public registration in the register, i.e. the principle of the public when entering the register of economic operators. When you go to the registration office you get, if you're lucky, one cabbage from that registration pad and you just can't get along in that registration pad, and the question is, is there even real data? If you're not lucky, you can't get the information at all, and that's why the principle of the public was completely compromised and annulled. Why? What was the explanation? The explanation was simple, the case was with the judge and then you couldn't possibly have it without talking about these elements of corruption and bribes that we faced in the fight against corruption and bribes when we went to a trade court to see founding capital, to see who the directors of these companies were, to see the structure of capital. It's just that these objects were gone or we were running into other problems. Let's say, if the object exists, then they tell you that the copier doesn't work and we can't copy this out of the cartridge. Then we wrote it down, but it wasn't real evidence. What's the problem? The main problem is that you didn't have an electronic database. It's what forms the basis of electronic business. In 2000, we saw that problem. We have noticed that a single registration process and a unique information system cannot survive without the recognition of data in electronic form. This is the foundation of future electronic business, or a single system that will enable one, so to speak, carefree business on our market. The most important is the registration of economic operators, for a simple reason, because it represents the birth of one company and the procedure must be made as easy as possible. This procedure will be facilitated by this five-day deadline, and that will bind the entire system. When I went to the trade court to point out the problem of registration, I also encountered complete misunderstanding. That's what I called fat finger syndrome, because they couldn't use the keyboard to get the keys and then they couldn't even keep the register in that electronic form. Total misunderstanding, and the bribe was extremely pronounced, because you had this kind of registration: if you do it through a lawyer, then it ends very quickly, because they had connections with the judge, so they could do it very easily. Otherwise it was waiting, about, for some companies that went through a legal and regular procedure, there were cases, and six months. So this is what we're gonna get the paper out of registering business entities. That paper will, if it is, be reduced to the minimum and we will not find the "cupus" in the registration department of the trade court. The most important principles in this law are: the principle of public, truthfulness and security, efficiency; as I said, I will repeat once again, the deadline for registration is five days; and economics. There's no stalling, and there's no over-costs. Also, what is necessary to point out is the link of the register to other registers and state bodies and organisations. It is precisely this connection that will enable the interaction of the entire system of the country's future single information system. Also, the solution that adopts the application from the registration application, for example, is five days. Now, after the adoption of these legal proposals, I can proudly say that we will succeed in making a good story, the right thing for this country. I can tell you that what was the problem and what was pointed out as a problem in consulting lawyers in the economy, which will be held these days at Vrnjak Banja, which is the absence of unique registers. These laws will bring it to the right level and the right level, and I'm sure we'll be able to make this work for many lawyers in the economy. This law provides for modern solutions to this problem and thus lays the foundations of a new information system. This definitely closes the last link that is missing in the formation of the information system mentioned, with regard to the participation of business entities in the system of exchange of business information, protection, which is technical and technological and legal protection, and relations with the authorities of the administration and foreign business partners, which will be able to have insight into these registers and to recognise that enterprise that is most favourable to investment. Furthermore, we are setting up one strategy, which is a strategy for the country's long-term development in the coming period, which will include a strategy for the implementation of information technologies and electronic business. With these solutions, we lay the foundations that are lacking in our country, which are the foundations of a knowledge society, and that is, with regard to new laws in the field of electronic business and the protection of databases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3259	National MP Vojkan Tomic, authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3260	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, today we have a fundamental reform law that will finally bring us closer to the same European Union for another small step at this moment, but very important for our path to the European Union. If we agree and advocate a market economy, for the liberalisation of economic relations within our Republic, if we want to create a favourable environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, if we want to increase the number of small and medium-sized enterprises, this law is necessary to shorten this path, speed up. This law creates a more favourable legal framework and an economic environment for economic activity in our country. So far, we've had a trom and inefficient system that's been tied to the courts, it's had some basic features about the command economy, which I hope is behind us. The European Commission's basic recommendations, the World Bank's basic recommendations and other European and world institutions went in this direction, that the current system was considered ineffective, that it was slow, that the trom and that the judges who enrolled in the economic registers in making their decisions led one judge to make enrolment in one way, to interpret the application in one way, and to another judge, even the judge in the same court, in a completely tenth way. These basic remarks, which we have received, are hereby removed by this law. What, in my opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary group, is the greatest advantage of this proposed law, is the centralization of the register itself. Now there's all the data in one place, there's all the data, there's all the data, and all the work is done. At first glance, the law itself requires more details from businesses, asking for more documents to be submitted, but on the other hand, it provides and allows for much faster and easier registration, precisely by allowing businesses to do so easily and quickly through the help that the registering agency itself provides. This law balances the practice of registration. So far, we've had the practice of judges, even in the same court, acting differently on a particular case and that the judges, when the economic operator goes to a judge, he returns it because he didn't do a good job. And this one tells him, well, this other judge didn't accept that application. Of course, that has had no effect so far. And one of the strongest arguments for this law is the electronic data management. In the time of the post-electronic revolution, this system for our economy is necessary, because it is also a step towards the European Union. Electronic records are kept centrally, via the Internet, on the web and on the website can be made aware of all business entities that are registered, can be submitted to the register, i.e. for registration or a specific change for registration, information can be obtained that has not been made available so far in the way the register has been managed so far. How has the register been conducted so far, and what is making this much easier? You could've gone to a trade court and asked for insight into the company's map. When you go there, you get that insight, but you don't get an insight into all the documents you might need at the moment to make an insight into the very economic operator. You didn't get the founding act, you didn't get the statutes of a certain economic operator, but you had to apply for these acts, although it might have been very important for you to see how the company's statute has determined some of its internal relations, which, we assume, are important to you for business alone. Not to mention, when you ask for those documents, that you had to wait 10-15, maybe 20 days, while the clerk delivers it to you or sends it to you by mail, and for a long time you lose to the pure red tape led by people in trade courts. What this law also underlines as an essential function of keeping a register in this way is that the register is now being placed in administrative function. It is no longer placed in control, as the trade court has done so far. A clean administrative function, where only a record is kept, where it is not left as so far to the trade court to decide on certain cases, and in this regard is also the fact that I am the registrator, who keeps an entry in the register, does not verify the accuracy of the data listed in the application. If anyone suspects the accuracy of the data in the application, a certain lawsuit is filed and the case is handled. We're talking about simplifying and speeding up the process itself. That is what the deadlines set out in the law themselves tell us. You will see that the deadlines are very short; when it comes to five days, about two days, it is precisely those deadlines that, because of the way the register itself is conducted, are sufficient. When you don't have prescriptions, when you don't have a paper exchange, when everything is done electronically, these deadlines are really enough. What's also a big advantage of keeping a register is modernity. Using the Internet in the economy, which so far has been in a very small, negligible percentage and the question is how many people are now using in Internet companies for their business, may be using for something else, but for business at a very small percentage. This way, since I'm hearing throws from the SRS parliamentary group, I'm not sure if you know how to use computers, but you'll be forced to use computers if you want to do business, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3261	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3262	So you're going to have to learn, and you have very cheap courses that last seven days, so you're going to have to learn that too. What is also very important is that in this way, and in order to clean up the register, because so far we have a very large number of inactive enterprises, this law introduces an inactive economic operator institute and a two-year deadline left for inactive entities is a deadline in which the entity is placed in the rank of an inactive entity, because it has not submitted a financial report for that year. We think it's an appropriate deadline, because whoever hasn't worked for two years doesn't even have to be registered in the register itself in that active part; of course, he won't be deleted from the register, but he'll be marked inactive. One of the newspapers, which we had the opportunity to see in some countries in our environment, is the Institute of Company Name Reservations. Why is it important to make a reservation for the company's name? When you want to enter into the establishment of a particular company, a particular business entity, specify a name, contact the register, give part of the elements necessary for a particular registration, but do not supply all documents, do not deliver what you must later supply to the register, the founding act, the statute or other necessary documents. You get a deadline to fill out all the documentation over a certain period of time and thus meet all those requirements necessary for the registration of the company itself. All I want to say is the fees prescribed in the law itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3263	Excuse me, are you using the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3264	I'll use it. So, as far as the amount of compensation is concerned, they are made up of the Law on Court Taxes, they are appropriate at the moment and do not constitute a great burden, especially if we bear in mind that translation from the current way of keeping the register will not be charged, and will not constitute a certain financial expense for the economic operators themselves. When we said this register was centralized, the question is who runs this register. A law on an agency for economic registers is proposed. The agency, someone said she could have called herself differently, she could have, but this government said, when it comes to agencies that are against agencies formed by a regulation, and those agencies that are formed by law, they remain in traffic and the Privatisation Agency, as we can see, is doing quite normal, so will the Agency for Business Registers. The agency is intended to have as an administrative body a management board, to do management tasks, to have as a supervisory authority - a supervisory board, to have a director, the head office of this agency is in Belgrade, but what is very important is that the agency will have organisational units that will actually carry out tasks in the territory of the entire Republic. What is particularly important in this law is that the most important condition in the observations made by the European Commission is to put into account, above all, all interested persons of the following document: the founding act, the statute, the annexes of these documents, the annual financial report, as well as the level of the subscribed capital. And why does it matter? Simply, if you want to enter into a certain business relationship, it is natural to examine the situation of this business operator, this company, the bank or something else, and that is very important, because you are reducing the risk of investment and the risk of operating with a particular company. That's why the principle of the public is very important. If you want one of the European countries, if you have time, you can check on their websites these days, on their websites, of course, again for those who know how to use the Internet, you can see that you can find all the necessary information on these business register sites, whether they're called registers or they're called some other name. What is also important for the public question that is dominant and mainly in this law? The fact that this network will be linked to networks of other entities in our legal traffic that also keep certain records, whether it is the Republic Bureau of Statistics, whether it is the Republic Authority of Public Revenue, whether it is the National Bank, and so on. Absolutely, all data must be available because this allows one transparency and the public of the work of all economic operators. Finally, I would like to invite all MPs, no matter what parliamentary groups they belong to, to vote for this law, because this law is essential, reformal, because it brings us closer to Europe. It brings us closer to modern economic systems, not to command systems as seen under the proposed amendments of one of the parliamentary groups that advocates that such a system now exists in trade courts. Gentlemen, allow the judges of the trade courts to do their job, to judge them, to free them from the affairs that remind them of the management of the parent books, because they are not the parent, they are the judges. Let's let them do what they've learned about schools and what they're judges for. Therefore, once again, I call upon you to support this reform law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3265	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3266	Practically, we're talking about the same laws next time. These laws failed to come to the agenda last year. The election's been disrupted. I hope that the promoters of this same text, the first promoters, have learned some lessons. The difference between last year's proposal and this one is now only in one member. So two laws, and the difference is only one term. And now we don't remember who was all last year against these laws, but well, it doesn't matter that much anymore. The important thing is that we heard from the government's representative that unless this law is passed, there's no donation. That's the main thing. So, by August 31st 2004, this should be adopted, because then there comes 13 million Swedish crowns, which is about a million and a few euros, that's the main reason why this law is put in an emergency procedure, and this one. Of course, according to the donation, and thanks to the Internet's existence and there were currents, we saw who received the donations from abroad when he organized the coup, so how much is the Resistance, how much is this association, and how much are those three curtains from the Federal Assembly? I'm glad there's finally someone to defend the government's proposals, but I'd have to point out that it's a kind of devaluation for this bill if it's all due to whether or not someone entered the trade court and tampered with the registration card. If that's all that comes down to it, then each of us can do it far more, and better and better quality to criticise the existing situation. The current situation is not satisfactory, something needs to be done, to change, but the path that the government has chosen is completely wrong. Here's where the mistakes are made. First of all, the government was driven to this job by some institutes. We just heard one institute; of course, we took the money. As soon as they took the money, everything's the best they do. It's a very simple reason. I don't know what the proposer was going to say on the first page of this argument, this first law on enrolment proceedings. It says, the failures of an existing registration system are, so one five reasons are listed and then a new sentence is moving, so it is said, except for the sudden, other than these extreme deficiencies, there are a large number of parallel databases on the economic operators that are being led. So this is also a lack of what others lead, the Republic Statistics Institute, the Republic Public Revenue Administration, Customs, the National Bank of Serbia, pension and disability and health and other bodies. Of course, we don't have a population register, we don't have any other registers we need, but the promoter found a reason for this to justify the speed of need to take donations. As far as donation is concerned, I have to point out, we've heard a lot of things here, and among other things it says, different practices within the same court. There's a registrar in a trade court, and there's not five of them. Where the larger courts are, maybe a few of them work, cover bigger space, but one judge. Who cares about uniform court practice? Second-degree body, and he's the Supreme Court of Commerce. A case-law is being built, as is the case, in the case-law and in other courts where there are a number of courts participating in some proceedings. So it's not that reason. That's what needs to be understood. When it's said that this record will be anything and everything, just to remind you of the naked facts that exist today. Since 2000, in October, when the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was passed, there has been an obligation to introduce a single voter list for the Republic of Serbia. He's not here today either. There's no unique computer database. Last year there were 16 computers missing for local self-government units, and now I guess seven-eight, maybe now they've provided some donations, but the problem is that there are 70-80 different software, so it can't fit. Those who defend this law should ask Zoran Loncar whether he has a unique voter list. He's gone. How do you think you can network this with a brand-new institution? That's technically impossible. For a million and a half euros to multiply it and you to take care of it, don't, please, it's an unserious claim. I'm not just going to criticise this former government, and the former one was making some regulations about a single information base that would connect the districts, and he ran Dragoljub Jankovic, it seems to me, the minister of justice at the time, so nothing happened. Nothing happened. It won't be any of this either. Let's see how it stands with these big reasons we've heard. He says, if the register and this agency are established, then the control function of the trade court is lost. Please, even now when entering the court register of economic operators, the court had no control function. What control function? Make sure all the papers were delivered, and if so, if there were no problems, the judge was making a solution. If a problem arises, something is solved in the outsider procedure. There's no control function, there's just plain recording. Why is it pulled out? It's done in court. So for 40 years, that's what we've been doing in court. Let's go for a reason, as they say, that it's not good if it's done in court and examples that it's not good for us are Austria, Germany and France. They are primitively free countries, because the records of economic operators are made by courts, not special agencies. They're more developed than Ireland, and I don't want to go any further. Which justifies a million and a half euros to come and, of course, justify the funds received by that agency, the institution that wrote that this is the only time, the right path without an alternative. You touch the button, so if you don't get electrocuted, you'll see everything, publicly on the site who's on board. Of course, since he focused all his attention on 13, or a million and a half euros, he forgot about one thing, there is the Company Act, and it is beautifully written in that law that one authority keeping records and where business entities are registered is a court. They don't care, a million and a half are more important than any regulation in our country. If it comes from the institute, it's the law and it has to end. But there's a headache. Headache is the same as it was last year when the Financial Lising Act was passed, a failed law in terms and the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things, when it was also said that the records would be run by the competent authority. Which one? We don't know. When will it be made? We'll see. He showed up, it's gonna be an agency. Unlike these nine agencies, which, by amending the Government General Secretariat Regulation, were abolished because government agencies were not founded by law but by a regulation, with very loud and beautiful names that meant nothing, names that meant nothing, here the material coverage for the existence of the agency is in the law. That's the main reason the agency here can, and they couldn't. Speaking of why the record was conducted by a trade court for years, I have to tell you that the economic operator practically acquires legal and business capacity at the time of enrolment. The enrolment should be with the competent national authority, and if its existence concerns the touching points of human rights and the legal interests of the legal persons, because they have these interests, then it was by our existing constitutional system only a possible court, and not another body. That's why it's like that. Because for 30 years our legal system has been adaptable, done the way it was done in Germany, so we have quite the same solutions when it comes to status issues. You had to read the books a little bit, to realize that it wasn't – now we don't want the court, now we're going to the agency, turkey dots don't apply, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3267	Excuse me, are you using for the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3268	I'd like some more. A million and a half euros is big money. This country needs money, but we don't care what they spend it on, what they spend it on, who will spend it on and who will take that fee, consulting services, experts, experts, a very important thing. Nothing's going to get here. It is said that one reason, so it is said, is that institutions that register business entities, so the number of courts and the number of people in courts who work in these affairs are listed. What you didn't say, this agency of yours, is going to have an organisational structure. Is this job going to work one, five, maybe 200, or maybe 180, or in every municipality? If you think, I see in Article 2, you say he can have his own organizational parts, which will be regulated by the statute, then if you want to move this out, why didn't you give it to the Republic Statistics Office? He's got an information network, he's got top-notch mathematicians for computer programs, who know how to get on the Internet and not make mistakes, so the power doesn't kill them. They have almost all their business spaces, they're connected, they're already working on some numbers, they're giving statistical numbers on the classification of business entities, they're familiar with business, they've got a nice service here, they've got an accurate service at the central, which is running it all together and doing it. What you had to spend that money, you could have spent 10% of your resources, transferred all the data to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and that it was a little reluctant to pass a population register law and unite all those registers, all the data at our Republic Statistics Office, which is a good institution. We can all object, disagree with some data, but it's an organisationally good institution. People work, professionals. After all, you chose one of their deputies and directors as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council as a good mathematician, who looks like an economist, Kovacevic. You could, but you won't. A million and a half euros should be covered, shown as a cost. Who takes, I don't know, but you're all complicit. What does this government of yours look like, what your relationships are, I don't care at all. If those encrypted have primate, you have made it possible for them. It was the same last time. The Democrats were victims of those little ones, they had to squeeze everything, Batic pushed his, Covic pushed his, fell to the Democratic Party. It's that risk that's being taken. You can't avoid that risk. No one can avoid the risk of entering the coalition. Let's be clear. Furthermore, it says – unequal practice of existing registers. It is not clear to me that any chamber, verdict, or judicial practice, or someone who has the power to touch the Internet, enters the special file "judicial practice", will be seen in addition to any law and the views of the case-law on open issues that arise in practice. I have no intention of defending my lawyers, but some of them here have presented that they are myths of discretion. They're the only ones capable of completing the registration. That's not true. Let's get the register, but make sure it's at the courthouse, and let's get him. Let's get the norms, change the law on enrolment procedures, put the norm in so it has to be on the Internet, install some standards around the public. In the end, let us do everything possible to apply the provisions of the Company Act, which states in the memorandum, must be those, these data, and even entered and paid founding capital, etc. Let's do something that way. But no, it's going to be brand-new here. Here, from the Ministry of Traffic and Connections are to take out the frequency distribution jobs, they're assigned to the Broadcasting Council. There's been two years, nothing's wrong, just the cost. Do we want to sort things out? Newly created and newly invented organs, which have neither jurisdiction nor work nor are able to do any work. That's how it's gonna be with this. You will, respected businessmen, regardless of whether you are active or inactive. By the time that register is established, you'll see how it goes. These are some innovations, we have finally learned that Germany and France are undeveloped free states, they slave to some of their norms, some of their own rules. Obviously Germany does not respect the directives, France does not respect the directives, so tell the citizens of Serbia what the directives and recommendations mean. What is their binding force? They don't have the binding power that you give them here. You're more Catholic than the Pope. What Djelic said, they just think we're being squeezed, and I say, "We're done." They're making up something new. It was all done because of these and these millions and a half, two and a half, three and a half, etc. Last time, I was talking about who made the federal arrangements, so I ran off to the opposition when they kicked him out. All 35% is consulting, institutes, reports, moms, dads, aunts, kids, it's all there. It's a good thing you called to celebrate this novelty that's written, which should tell us that there's nothing wrong with us, because it's not good in Germany either, it's not good in France. Now, we have tried with some amendments to ask you to look at this law again, try to determine what is a fundamental problem with our registration of economic operators and, if possible, find some cheaper, more acceptable solutions to update, establish and improve the records of economic operators. There's room. I've given you a few ideas and if you'd like to stay in a trade court or if you want to move it out for public, transparency, etc., one of these ideas is the Republic Bureau of Statistics, where almost everything exists. All it takes is new forms, applications, even on official duty to reregister all economic operators, because there are data in the database for each economic operator. Think about whether there's a possibility, no matter what it's about a donation. When cheese is put on the market to be free, it's just a mouse hunter, there's no free cheese at the market. Only a mousefish has free cheese. If the donation is free cheese, take care because the key works. The key works, when it's pounding, then it's painful, then it goes into the back lines overnight. In an hour of rotation going like this, and when it comes to the back row, then it all comes out, then it's all clear. Consider this proposal, to regulate this law on the procedure and way of enrolling economic operators, to keep it in commercial courts or possibly to sort of arrange to come to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, because it is about the nearest body to keep records. Avoid this, no matter how acceptable you are to those 1.500,000 euros. I know your deadlines are cluttering. Many deadlines are tight, but the deadlines do not sit well with the parliamentary majority that was made here. These deadlines are only by those institutes that took the money, and the job isn't over. Remember one thing. Those before you were a little bigger masters. They figured out the game and didn't want to be the scapegoat of some institutes. Keep an eye out, you who keep a little bit of the law, I hope you keep to the law, so you don't become victims, that it doesn't happen that you criticized the predecessors who turned out to be much more resourceful and smarter than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3269	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives on this point want a word? No, I don't. ) The first speaker is MP Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Slobodan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3270	Mr. President, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today discussed two important laws, a law on the registration of economic operators and the Agency for Business Registers. On the occasion of this agenda, there is reason to say a lot, because this is an important segment, what is called the state of Serbia's economy and the happening future development of Serbia. I say this "eventual future development" because registration of economic operators, the way of registration has connections, makes sense and makes one link of the economic system. I think that, when he spoke about the bill, he put out a completely wrong thesis that the existing system of registering economic operators is an obstacle to economic development, which is why it should be replaced, as it would probably be a completely wrong thesis, that the new system itself will lead to economic development. In the light of this law, 31% of countries in the world use an existing system of registration of economic operators. Among them are some that are economically strongest in the world, Germany and France, so this does not pose an obstacle to economic development. The other day, we had another government official who explained a model that uses only 10% of the countries in the world, and it was again affirmed as something that in itself should be an advantage, useful for Serbia in the future. We did not or did not have economic development because in the years when the Socialists were in power, we had sanctions from the United Nations, we also had hyperinflation, but also the economic recovery programme in 1994, 400-700,000 refugees via Drina, we also had NATO aggression at the end. They were all constraint moments of economic development. In the years when DOS exercised the power of economic development, there was no, because the economy was not taken into account, unfortunately, one robbery of the economy through the privatisation of businesses, but this is another topic. It's important to say about this law that he has his own good and bad side. I think the good parts of this bill are the centralisation of data in one place, the possibility that, at any time, when the law is fully applied, you can access the data relevant to each economic operator. I also think the good side of this bill is the speed to get a license. I think the good side of this law is that everyone will be able to determine in a very simple way the credit rating of an economic operator, given that economic operators will have to submit a report every year. I think the period of application of this law will be, to some extent, a limiting factor in the quality of this law, but a little later on. When I say -- centralization of data, it will be very difficult to place 250,000 businesses in one place and within a short time frame. If you tell me that these provisions will have to be met by June 15th next year, I'll tell you that 250,000 businesses compared to, say, 400 days by June next year, that's 625 subjects that have to register daily. The time for registration is five days and it's very short. That's one limiting factor. If the registrar, and it is one man, does not sign that solution, it is believed that the economic operator can register, but there is one trap. It will be important to get permission to enter all data prescribed by the law as a condition for obtaining a permit. You don't get into the grade - if your data is relevant. One man will certainly not be able to achieve this job, and it will be an objective obstacle, and we will have a practical situation that only interested persons, or those in some economic relationship, will have an interest in verifying that data. Will it be possible to get the right information? If the data isn't correct, there's a lawsuit, and that's where we get the doorknob 22, if I may say so - court. The court has been a limiting factor so far, unfortunately, a very limiting factor related to the registration of economic operators. The court has done what it wanted, how it wanted and who it wanted. If something is not done in the judiciary, if the situation is not improved in the judiciary, this law will also be limited to that extent. Don't doubt that there will be court proceedings related to the application of this law, to the registration of the data, and how the court will work, we'll see about that. Unfortunately, the experience of the court's work has been very bad, as has so far been the experience of trade courts related to the registration of economic operators very bad. We've had, it stands here in the light of the law, 108 people doing data registration, registration, 17 economic courts, 25 judges. So 1.5 judges per court. We had a practice that was so diametrically opposite that everything could be swept under it. The example works, of course, with regard to the law, I will mention the case of Hempro, the company for foreign and domestic trade. I shall mention, because as a national MP, I also received a complaint from a man who was the Director General, so his name was deleted from the list of persons representing the firm in the court register and entered another person. I'm talking about this for one simple reason. You will see, in the end, the essence has proved completely different from the story - the entry of data into the court register, which is the person representing the firm in the court register. When there was a need to bring economic operators into line with the Company Act, Hempro submitted all the data to the Court of Commerce, it is now the Commercial Court in Belgrade, and then additional information was sought, so that, without the request of Hempra, a request for another person's registration as someone representing it was made. The trade court issued a solution to delete the existing director from the company's register, a new person wrote. The existing, previous director filed a lawsuit. He filed a complaint in December 2001, using the provisions of the Law on Registration in the Court Register and the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. According to the suit, the court made a decision only in March 2003. Meanwhile, there were seven hearings that were scheduled and cancelled for purely formal reasons. When I speak all this information, I express it on the basis of what a man has delivered to the National Assembly, that is, our MP group SPS and me as a national MP. So, in March 2003, he made a decision and declared the lawsuit untimely, and in the meantime he was able to assess the permit and timeliness of the lawsuit in preparation for the main hearing, or at the latest at the preparatory hearing, or if the preparatory hearing was not held, at the first hearing for the main hearing, I read the provisions of the Law on the litigation procedure, not only after a year and a few days and after seven scheduled hearings. That face filed a lawsuit with a senior court. Two months later, according to a lawsuit, the Senior Trade Court annulled the decision and returned to its decision. So, May 2003. It's May 2004. The court hasn't decided yet. Why am I telling you all this? For the simple reason that it is formally my story regarding the provisions of the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, facial data is very important. This story is instructive for another reason, while privatising the company, the initial value of the company's state-owned data was 10m euros, so that the company would be sold for 2.6m euros in the meantime, with the payment of six years, that a business space in the city centre was also sold for two and a fewm euros, but contrary to the provisions of the regulation that prohibited the facility from being sold without the written consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The man is now running a dispute and is likely to win a dispute, but in the meantime, the companies will not be. Those who worked got fired or fired. The state didn't get the fees the employees had to pay. The company changed ownership, new owners came, and the damage will only be general, and we'll figure it out. I've taken this as an eclectic example of what can happen if the judiciary is not an area that follows the application of this law, because in the last three years a lot of dirty things have happened in the economy. Crisis headquarters brought with them people who thought that only on the basis of revolutionary merits could and should get the right to run companies. Unfortunately, the courts have legalized many things badly and many actions are under way. Here's this, started in December 2001, not finished until May 2004. I refer to this as one limiting segment. You'll say it has nothing to do with the law, but it does if the law is actually applied and then that segment will have to be quality. I think there's a reason for this law to be passed. I think this may be the only agency that really has seats in the system of agencies that have been formed in previous years, because agencies have been formed to hire party friends or relatives, friends, family members, of course, and godfathers, but that the application of this law will bring a number of open issues that will likely have to be changed by amending and supplementing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3271	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3272	I thank you for the opportunity to make some brief comments about the past discussions for a very rational reason, so that we don't have to remember until the next one. It'll probably be quite a long discussion and successful, once we get on with this law. I must point out that most of the evaluations in the previous discussions have given some support and a positive assessment of the proposed laws. The minimum founding capital is foreseen by another legal act and it is indeed a question that will probably be on the agenda when we have the company law. We now have a law here that regulates the procedure and we believe that what is easiest and fastest to do is to simplify this procedure to that extent that it does not make life worse for those who want to start a new company or an independent shop. The five-day deadline is completely sustainable and it is binding. We will have the opportunity to see for ourselves very soon, and the agency will be forced as a state body to be very effective. The Agency is intended by electronic means to be linked to all other state bodies related to registration, see Article 13. You will see that this particular article 13 confirms that this deadline will be sustainable. Of course, it's not the ultimate goal, it's a transitional solution. The ultimate objective should be to cover all necessary agencies and all needs of all state authorities that are based on the records and control of company records with one parent number. A year is enough to reregister all existing companies. It won't have any financial obligations, but in the end it's an opportunity to make a purification and arrangement in that part, not to live in the illusions of how many businesses we have and how successful they are. We have a large number of people who really don't work, they don't work from the time they were founded with 100 marks. Donations, you know how, in every law, in every opening statement, you can take some cream. Here donations are really mentioned as one rational solution, and if someone has provided something to modernize, reform a certain coast, it's a shame to miss it and transfer it to budget cost. By the way, that wasn't the point at all. That's by the way. The main point is that we need to have a rational, quality, reform-defined solution, which will mean that everything happens in one place, that it is a matter of shortness, simplicity, rationality of the process, availability of information, and that this is the basis for a positive position in business for all those who are successful and correct, because the fact that everyone will be able to check the credit rating in this place for the company they want to work with will only boost the performance of the business of those companies that are working successfully. There were plenty of people here who tried very hard to discuss it very well without ever registering any company. I've had this happy circumstance, since I've been out of business, that I've at least 50 times registered in a previous company and I don't want to say anything ugly or bad to registering courts, commercial courts. I think the grades on some things that didn't work were very measured and correct. Nothing was simplified, there were no ugly words about how it was so far. There have been some examples mentioned, and I would like to say that in this case, examples of some countries and some examples that are much more appropriate at this time are being used in our case. Ireland and the United States are mentioned, but I'd say it a little more clearly here. Ireland, Portugal, Greece, Italy has defined the countries that have now been identified as the model for which we have now been identified in the course of their accession to the European Union. France and Germany are very successful systems, legal systems, and let's not forget that France was celebrating this year, at the highest level, 200 years since the adoption of the civil code, as well as that registration of economic operators in France continues from a period between two world wars. We're still not in that position, and I think it's a good time to take a reform step in this area. In the end, there were a lot of examples here that I have to say that we are different, we are members of continental law, where we are regulated by the regulation of certain matter, not the Anglo-Saxon law, where we would be given the appropriate examples of water. After all, all the examples that have been presented, they have more applied to some deviating phenomena related to the Company Act, the Privatisation Act, and at least to the proposed law on the register of economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3273	Mr. Vlahovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 99(1). The previous speaker, not Mr. Minister, but before Mr. Minister, spoke of a completely different topic, not the topic for today's National Assembly session. What I'm trying to say is that this is a fundamental and reform law and this is the law that the National Assembly had on the agenda last June, but on this law, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, last year most of the MPs from the political co-operation that was in power today had an entirely opposite opinion. If you want to accept market postulates that the Law on the Registration of Business Entrepreneurs requires, then you must also accept the market value that it defines and which is the basis of the current and previous privatisation process and that, when you comment on some sales for non-sales, you find the difference between market value and administrative value. In reverse, you will do your own kind of incest, accepting the market economy by half, and from half wanting to enter part of the so-called. administrative industries. Therefore, I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker, without pointing out a concrete example, talked about some sort of sale, some kind of problem and some connection to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, where it actually doesn't. Once again, essential economic reforms do not depend on the current political position the individual political party has on the political scene in Serbia. In other words, if you are truly for essential economic reforms, then do not change your views on the legal text, which is in exactly the same form last year, depending on the current political needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3275	Mr. Vlahovicu, the correct position is whether the MP was sticking to the topic and, unfortunately, I did not notice, I will check later, to see if he was sticking to it. I realized that he cited examples individually, otherwise, of course, I would interrupt the speaker. Mr. Beard, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3276	I went out, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since apparently Mr Vlahovic misunderstood me and misread me. I have cited, I think, a very clear example of the registration of the economic operator, the registration of the person in the court register, who are authorized to represent, an example that was essentially used to privatise in the meantime. I didn't say "wrong" or "like," I said it was a robbery, Mr. Vlahovic, over the past three years, that it was essentially a robbery through privatisation. The example I set is one small example. The Ministry of Business and Privatisation is probably watching and will have its own judgment on that. I said that in the meantime, while a legal battle was being fought over which the person was authorised to represent the firm, the first-value firm -- 10m euros, sold for 2.4m or 2.6m euros to a natural person every six years. I didn't name names, and once you get out again, I'll mention the names, and then only Serbia will be clear who bought it. A business space has been sold in the city centre, contrary to the provisions of a regulation that prohibits it without the written consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is it that makes Mr. Vlahovic itch, why he needs to go out and explain the whole privatisation here, is the problem of the previous government, but the fact that all this is what I said is standing. I was very clear, we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, have received written allegations of a man seeking justice in court. All that information I've provided is in those documents. I'm modestly saying that my assessment is that through privatisation, the robbery was done, and I'm staying on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3277	Mr. Paunovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3278	On the basis of Article 82, I have reasonable doubt that there are not enough MPs in the room and I ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-13-0.u3279	I ask the MPs to insert the cards and determine the quorum. The Rules of Procedure must be respected, please insert. The electronic voting system shows that 30 MPs are present in the hall, which is not enough for quorum. We're finishing today's session. The session continues on Monday, 17 May 2004, at 10.00 hours. The next speaker is National MP Slobodan Vukovic, followed by Takac Istvan. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 103 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Rakovic, Stanisa Stevanović, Slobodan Zivkucin, Radoslav Jovic, Dejan Rajčić, Esad Djudževic, Milan Marković, Milutin Svejkovic and Branimir Trajkovic; (later) Sava Urosevic, (before noon) Jovan Todorovic. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON REGISTRATION OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND AGENCY FOR THE PUBLIC REGISTRE (the continuation of the joint principled search) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vučković, and let the National MP Takač Istvan be prepared.
