ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the inconclusion in proposing this set of laws has been shown today. Although the MPs of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, whose minister is an exponent of the government of the Republic of Serbia who proposed these laws, have come as soon as possible before the appointed time, the fact is that this assembly majority is more than lax, that there is difficulty in working on the follow-up session, when voting the law. We have warned all of this in the construction, creation of the unprincipled assembly majority, and it will indeed have far-reaching consequences for the citizens of Serbia. You will, with a tense parliamentary majority, vote laws that do not support citizens, and the economic crisis is being produced more and more from day to day; one systematic chaos is being created on the capital market and now we have a case to see through the draft of these laws. When it comes to the law on the national housing insurance corporation, this initial capital, the whole pomp about it, the news headlines, Mladjan Dinkic's footing, reminds everything of the case of the National Savings Bank. The truth is completely different. First, this initial capital of 10m euros not only is not enough but it is funny, given the fact that it is calculated by some data that several hundred thousand people in Serbia, because you can never end up finding it, there are no apartments today. They come from all social structures, and among them are those who have two and more children, intellectuals, workers, those with high school, crafts and many who are unemployed and who, with the help of their parents, who are pensioners and who have more than poor pensions, pay rent and support their children and try to find a catch. That is how it is in Kragujevac where I live, and it is probably not a better situation in many other cities south and north of Belgrade, and you know in particular that the problem is the lack of apartments in Belgrade and how it is expressed. There's been speculation here over the past few days with one piece of data that took place a few days ago in all the printed media. Minister Dinkic says, and this is mostly reported by the newspaper, that there are over 50,000 people in Serbia who are creditworthy to enter into an apartment purchase arrangement for 20 years with interest that must certainly be greater for each business bank that engages in the project of 8% and 8.5%, respectively, how falsely inflation is shown. They say the credit war for the average housing unit in Belgrade is for the four-member family of 389 euros. There may be over 50,000 people in Serbia who can pay such a war, but those 50,000 certainly do not need to buy an apartment. I assure you that because those who need to buy an apartment do not have it. I'm talking about the average, and whenever we talk about helping citizens, about laws that will improve living standards and allow people to live better, we need to take the average of Serbia. If you look at that average salary of 200 euros, you come up with an incredible situation to offer someone to buy an apartment for 20 years with interest of over 9%; he's going to look at you and tell you - what you're telling me, I don't have enough for basic life supplies, I don't know how to survive, the question is what will happen to me tomorrow, let alone get in, whether I'm going to lose my job... It has become the manner and previous DOS governments and regimes, and now these, because otherwise you come from the same mile, to take such steps as to leave most people out of work. That whole story is funny. It's like we're in a time machine, so we're going back to that video; and someone said G17 plus, so Mr. Markovic came out on the line; he didn't, he was a People's Bank video, but a video where the main actor was Mladjan Dinkic who appeared as one of the actors and a five-octobaric revolution after two or three months and promised in a video, where everything was nice and colorful, there's a bird cricket, how we're going to drive expensive cars, kids are going to school abroad, they're going to be building houses, they're going to go to winter, for a vacation. Not that it wasn't, but in Serbia and during its term of office as governor of the National Bank, the same policy continues through it as the economic-mafian lobby, the exhibit of those who, with their economic policy, want to make such experiments that will destroy economic operators, and certainly produce an even bigger economic and social crisis. It is impossible that within eight minutes, how much an internal agreement for us MPs of the SRS to expose ourselves to this set of laws, I say something about all five proposals. I have to say something that's crucial, and it's about the insurance law. The unacceptablely high census must be halved. It is impossible to establish for insurance companies a census that does not exist anywhere in Europe, and you have the least premiums. What's gonna happen? According to Dinkic's already old recipe for destroying not the rehabilitation of national banks, lobbyists from several insurance houses will also remain. Two or three insurance companies from abroad will be brought in. The basic vehicle insurance policy, be sure, will be like the UK for 2,000 euros. That I'm not talking about life insurance, which is not going to come to anyone's mind, anyway people under this power and this kind of power, which is hardly different from the previous one, have lost all will and are waiting for real and root changes. How is it possible for the minister to say that there is chaos in the insurance market, when he wants through this bill not to be market-based. Because if you have a monopoly in one country, if it's a banking lobby, and we've seen how it works, now the lobby of the insurance houses, how will those who will stay at the will of the minister, because it's been transferred to the National Bank of Serbia, and we've heard that, except for now, Serbia, Kazakhstan and two other countries, there's no such thing in the world; that it's possible that new insurance companies, or houses, are doing business. It's impossible, because that kind of censorship they can't pay. It must, at the very least, be halved, if we want to market business and if we want to enable citizens to use insurance policies and cars, as is normal everywhere in the world, in both developed countries, which is essential to everyone, but with all the possibilities and policies of life insurance and non-life insurance. This law is not good and is almost prescribed by Bozidar Djelic, once a great friend and also "expert", who worked in tandem with Mladjan Dinkic; during his departure, in the last days of his ministry Djelic provided us with a book, a sort of textbook in which he is located and almost the same kind of insurance bill. What's the difference? Of course it's nothing, so citizens really expect the root and radical changes that must inevitably happen; such changes that they have a different government, which will be at the will of the people, which this one certainly isn't. To get to that, we have to take it one step at a time. Let's pick the president first. You must know, although you probably don't realize it, at least not everyone, that the people have already decided. Tomislav Nikolic for president, for real.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2675	The word has the People's MP Predrag Mijailovic Lune, and let the MP Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support a package of financial laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law establishing a national housing insurance corporation aims to bring long-term housing loans to life in our country for 20 to 30 years with lower interest rates below 9%. This will be achieved by providing long-term housing loans from business banks and by giving special incentives to banks to decide to provide long-term housing loans with lower interest rates. I note that banks, as well as loan seekers, do not have to use national housing insurance services if they do not want to. The DSS supports this bill proposed by the government under the leadership of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, because it knows that a young man, and every man, after birth and education, needs work and an apartment. We all know that without an apartment there is no family formation, and at the same time if there is no family formation, there is no fight against the white plague. This law affects all three objectives, because this law increases housing and increases investment, drives industry, construction operations and other needs that are accompanied by housing, new jobs are being opened. This law promises for the first time that investments will be possible throughout Serbia, i.e. that we will see cranes in both Užica and other cities across Serbia, not only in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other major cities. With this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia, under the leadership of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, promises to do everything to launch investments in Serbia to create new jobs. The law on the national housing insurance corporation is precisely affecting the centre of investment, and it represents a motor power in new investments in the country of Serbia, noting that new laws will be found soon, which will speed up this law (i.e. mortgage law and other accompanying laws). The DSS will support the government's proposal for insurance laws. Why? Because here the censorship for the establishment of insurance institutions, or institutions, is increasing. We all know well how insurance went, that very often they were not compensated for the damage. Take, for example, farmers. Whatever farmer has secured, he's never gotten anything from any insurance company. We all know that if a city storm breaks down one orchard doesn't even give for that year which will be a generation, but they say – let them give until a little fruit or plant, if it's corn or wheat, let the commission come out and say – well, you'll be 20-30 percent of the stork; and we all know that fruit trees, especially in the pleasure area, can't recover in a year, two, three, and that usually after a city storm, there's no fruit for two or three years, or income. There's a full surveillance of the insurance facilities here, right through the inspection, so there could be no lies and fraud. That's why farmers will now be able to secure their sky-based factories. This also provides for the introduction of special voluntary health insurance, which is an additional motive for tomorrow's start-up and investment in health care and the creation of new jobs. When it comes to the proposal for a law on public procurement, the reason for the DSS to support this law is because for the first time they are brought into a more favourable status of domestic producers and domestic service providers by 20% compared to foreign producers and service providers. This means specifically that domestic producers and service providers have the advantage in tenders if they are more expensive by 20 per cent than foreign producers and service providers. The bill also fulfils the pre-election promises made by the DSS and the Government that through legislation it will lead to a more favourable position for domestic producers and service providers, to be competitive on our market, thereby protecting Serbian businesses and jobs and giving the opportunity to create trade capital in domestic businesses so that they can invest in new investments and create new jobs. Is there anything else to list, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, brothers and sisters, why should these laws be adopted? I know that no law is ideal, but these laws really hit the center of investment and God forbid we see the launch of investments and cranes across Serbia soon. That's why I invite you to vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2677	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let the MP Jovan Todorovic be prepared. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Todorovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2678	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a short period of time, I will speak exclusively of the law establishing a national housing insurance corporation. There are two key questions here. There's a lot being said here, but I'm going to focus your attention on these two key questions. First, if the national housing insurance corporation will potentially be able to secure around 160m euros in total credits that Serbian citizens could withdraw from commercial and business banks under this law, then the question is, how do they reach the credit potential of these 160m euros? It is clear that such a provision of the law was needed, that business banks needed some encouragement to go to the approval of housing loans, but the objective question is how we will provide them. Two are real sources. One is the savings of citizens, both foreign and dinar, and another source is the possible provision of favourable credits in business and commercial banks, so that they can place a placement on citizens, to grant housing loans provided by business banks under this law. Bearing in mind the overall situation in the Republic of Serbia, the payment power of the population, we will have a lot of problems in implementing this law, primarily from the point of view of the possibility of an ordinary citizen to ensure that the credit rate is paid which, and when it is minimal, will not be below 200 euros. That is an objective problem, as the average salary in Serbia is below 200 euros. If it is said that a single household can be charged with up to 60% of the total income of this household on the basis of this loan, then we will have practical problems for this job to be realised on the ground. The second key question is how to deploy this entire activity in Serbia, i.e. how to provide even regional coverage. We have objective problems, we have underdeveloped municipalities, medium-developed and very few developed municipalities. I'm afraid, even if all of this works, we'll have a situation to provide loans to housing only in large cities, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, possibly Nis. All other environments will have a problem, first of all, because the domestic banking system has been destroyed and the fact is that in small areas, you almost have no banks. If there are, it's branches, and most of the time it's exposure. How can a young couple now, without an apartment, be able to perform proper procedures under this law when there is no business bank in his place to deal with? And that's gonna be a problem. In this regard, I could ask why the promoter did not go any wider in this story, so, among other things, predicted the possibility of local self-government being the founders of local housing corporations. Then, let's say, the SO like Loznica could set aside 50,000 -- 100,000 euros, times 16, that's 800,000 -- 1,600,000 euros in potential from which housing can be financed. When you deploy it to 160 municipalities, you provide a real presence and smaller and larger environments in this whole story about building apartments. I thought I'd submit an amendment to that kind, but then I'd have to change the whole concept of this law. I suppose the minister would answer that local self-government doesn't stop anything from doing what I'm talking about. But one is the story when it is regulated by law, and another is the story when it is said – the current rules are not prohibited. Thirdly, I think it's important, we're only going to provide these housing loans based on mortgages, compared to 1:1. I ask – why not include in this whole story one potential that we call old foreign savings, which we call possession of securities of value based on loan bonds or some other kind. Why is it not possible for those who take loans to recover these loans to guarantee their existing properties as well. This would make life easier to deal with. For example. to pay off 51% of the loan taken, but to move into the apartment, don't God die, there's no one to continue paying off that loan, then the bank, by the provisions of this law, is authorized to use the mortgage, to sell it, or sell the apartment, and then to charge the difference of 85-100% from this corporation, etc. But if several types of insurance of such a loan were included in this whole story, then what I'm talking about would be kind of eliminated because they would be used as security, these other types, like old foreign currency savings, like mortgages over some other real estates, etc. I don't want to be undisciplined. I think it's time for the SPS parliamentary group to be discussed. (President: exactly seven minutes. Let me just finish this. Is this the kind of law Serbia needs? There's no dilemma. Is what's proposed in the law enough? It's not. Can this law be corrected? Yeah, it's better than nothing. We now have such a situation that construction stands, that business banks do not decide to place loans in the population, even on the basis of housing. This is one encouraging step for business banks. State policy and government policy should go that way to secure that credit potential. If we are to provide one piece through savings, then it is quite certain that the state must provide adequate donations from which, eventually, through business banks, it would place appropriate credit potential, or relatively favourable loans of 150m euros to 200m euros, so that the whole story could begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2679	Thank you. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth: let the messenger of the people be prepared, Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2680	The merger of the debate on five draft laws that cannot possibly be classified in one continent, ladies and gentlemen, is the asphyxiation of democracy and the disabling of MPs to do the work entrusted to them by Serbian citizens. Two days ago, I'm complaining to reporters outside this room, they say -- we don't know how to report from this session, we have one minute to get into the program, and it takes 25 seconds to list the laws that are being discussed. Imagine, when the press found it, what the citizens who are watching this session will tell us. Because of Serbia's public, the greatest attention in the set of these laws deserves a law on the national housing corporation, because you and the Serbian government representatives have these days issued a story that after the adoption of this law, all those who do not have apartments in Serbia will be able to raise favourable loans. That's just not true. This law is one of the colorful lies of Vojislav Kostunica and reminds most of the 2000 period when Vojislav Kostunica supported the then government and Mladjan Dinkic, as well as now, when we watched the videos on TV every day for a year on loan we will buy apartments, for two years car, for three years furniture, summers, winters, I don't know what you've offered. They know well that none of this has been done, as they know from now on, nothing will be. The government may also be able to deceive citizens, but MPs must not let down citizens' trust, and especially respected fellow MPs must not insult citizens' intelligence, they must not disrespect citizens and insult their common sense. Why am I saying this? Because no one in Serbia who does not have an apartment after the adoption of this law will be able to get credit to resolve their housing issue. That's the point. What did you want with this law, or what does the government want with this law? The government wants to protect the banking lobby and the construction lobby. Who's gonna be able to get credit under this law? Someone with a registered immovableity will be able to put that immovableity, mortgage it, and on behalf of that, they will be able to raise the loan. So a construction company that has a business space will put a mortgage on that business space, take a loan from a bank and build apartments for the market. Where are the citizens of Serbia? Of course, we don't mind construction firms building apartments for the market, but who's gonna buy those apartments? They'll be bought by people who have enough resources to buy an apartment, because it won't be apartments on loan. So, Serbian citizens, families in Serbia who do not have apartments, will still not be able to get loans to buy apartments and solve their housing problems. The minister said, when he explained these proposals, that this law would reduce interest on loans. There is no minister, tell him, Mr Angelic, that he is obliged to explain to the MPs and the public of Serbia where it is written in this law, on the basis of which a member of this law will reduce interest rates to mortgages. It doesn't say anywhere, it won't, and this has nothing to do with it. The minister's cheating on the public. Of course, it's not his first time. The minister says this law was made in agreement with banks. Is it possible he wasn't working in agreement with Beobank, Jugobank, Investbank, JU Bank, with the large Serbian banks that he liquidated in early 2001? Of course, then he had the blessing of Vojislav Kostunica, who was then president of the SRJ. Since we have a bad experience with the National Savings Authority, that there are still no problems with the National Savings Bank, that the Serbian public still doesn't have the right picture of what happened to the National Savings, please, colleagues who will vote for this law, and I know you will, don't play with this sign – national. Tell me immediately that you are passing a law establishing the Lazarevic-Hamovic corporation. Tell the people the truth. As far as the insurance law is concerned, there are only two or three objections to be made, since it is not enough time for such serious laws to be discussed in this way. The minister says the insurance law means introducing order into the insurance market by increasing censorship. No, Minister (who is not here) is not, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The point is that this law makes the minister want to protect the Cepter Bank, Delta Bank, Danube Insurance, and every day they're full of newspapers, you read everyone, reads the public of Serbia about what's going on in the Danube Insurance, how the lobby of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Labus works through his wife in the Danube Insurance. Also, the minister says security control is entrusted to the National Bank because the National Bank has personnel for a supervisory vision. There is, or there is, but not for this purpose. The real reason why this is entrusted to the National Bank is rounding up the G17 plus robbery. In this way, they round up the financial structure and in this way are definitely the only ones who manage Serbia's finances. Serbia didn't want that, for sure. As far as life insurance is concerned, this law also legalizes the existing situation. Do you know what the current situation is? The fact that life insurance is now being made in Serbia by insurance companies from Croatia and Slovenia, unregistered, without a valid permit. Mr Dinkic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the MPs who will vote for this will legalise the illegal work of Croatian and Slovenian companies already working on our territory. Dear fellow MPs, I suggest you do not adopt these laws because by adopting these laws, those who vote for them deceive the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens expect laws from this assembly to live better, realistically.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2681	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2682	Article 99 says the MP can only talk about the issue on the agenda. It's not Lazarevic on the agenda, it's not the National Savings Bank. Do not deceive Serbian citizens that loans for the apartment are not favourable. They may not be the most ideal, they may not be what you from the Serbian Radical Party won during the rule, but 250 euros is rent for a 50-square apartment in Belgrade, and 350 is to be paid for such an apartment. Anyone who created any property under normal conditions had to give up a lot. It's easier for a citizen to pay off his apartment for 20 years than to be a tenant for 20 years and have nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2683	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2684	I find something very interesting in the presentation of a colleague who reported to the Rules of Procedure. I rarely hear from a gentleman, so I don't know his name. The MPs here criticised Mladjan Dinkic and the Serbian government. The MP who spoke earlier did not feel the need to defend either the Serbian government or Mladjan Dinkic, but I don't know why Hamovic and Lazarevic would give a shit, why he went out to defend Hamovic and Lazarevic. As for favourable loans, sir, and ladies and gentlemen, who in Serbia can pay the loan if the loan is 300 euros, and if the average salary in Serbia is 200 euros. It means that credits will be able to raise those who have funds, those who have large salaries, and those who have large salaries mostly already have apartments. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party does not think it should be possible to raise loans to people who have funds and people who have apartments, but the priority of this state and these governments should be citizens, should be families that have no settled housing issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2685	The word is Branislav Ristivojevic... Wait a minute, this was a replica, there's no replica on the replica. Excuse me, Mr. Ristivoevich, you probably didn't turn yourself in, my apology. The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2686	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this demagogy, let's get back to facts. The law on the national housing insurance corporation aims to help citizens, and especially young couples who need to resolve their housing issues. One survey showed that unfortunately, for a deceased birth of 0.88 children, we have a negative natural growth. The people who participated in these studies are one of the main reasons why they can't start a family, they can't have children, they listed an unresolved housing issue. We'll try to help them with this. Those who criticize this law have probably never been tenants. People who are tenants pay 200 or 250 euros a month or more. Instead, they'll be able to pay the loan and buy an apartment in their possession. Another important reason why this law is passed is the launch of an economy. The increased demand for housing will have a positive impact on the development of construction and monitoring activities and further development of the market. For example, in Canada, which passed one of these laws in 1945 today, 40% of the social gross product comes from this market. The side effects of this law will be that the need to buy apartments in cash will be eliminated, as is the situation now. There is a large part of chaos and disorder, including abuse, avoiding the Agency's obligations to the state. Real estate trade will, in this way, move from a gray stage to a legal phase. As for the way the corporation works, which seems to be the most vague and critical, the corporation will only deal with the insurance of the credit risk of banks. This will reduce high interest rates and encourage banks to largely approve housing loans. Nowhere in the world is there a situation where they legally determine interest rates in this sense, so I don't know what they're talking about here. By reducing the risk, so the interest rates will go down on their own, the market will take care of it, not the law. In September, it will begin with the realisation of this plan and this law will show what we will be able to talk about here, show what its effects will be, and its effects will increase over time. As for the 10m-euro capital, it is not only 10m-euro capital, but 16 times more, i.e. 160m euros. One more thing that's positive -- every apartment will have to be booked, so it's legal, so it can start a mortgage on it. I'd only talk about the insurance law, because there are doubts. Many do not respond to an increase in censorship by more than 100%. Well, that censorship will lead to only those insurance companies on the market that can actually pay the insurance premium when it comes to it, not that citizens are in a position to pay for insurance, and that when they have to charge for it they can't do it. Why is surveillance entrusted to the National Bank of Serbia? Just because she can bring order into this mess in a short time. Some do, but the National Bank of Serbia owns personnel, systems, logistics, and this also saves budgets, as no new agency is set up, which should be financed from budgets, will already be done by the National Bank of Serbia. At one of the previous sessions, over one law, those who are now criticising what is being entrusted to the National Bank of Serbia, and not to the Ministry of Finance, had completely conflicting arguments, then criticised that certain powers are being entrusted to the Ministry of Finance, so that we cannot satisfy the majority of dissatisfaction, which is not our goal. In the end, I'd like to say that not everyone really understands these laws. They're loud in criticism, and it's no wonder. Not all of them, like some, had the privilege of getting small or no money from the Serbian government during the 1990s, so they're not interested in these things right now, now they've got a lot of work to do, say, with the presidential campaign. Those who do not understand modern laws are better understood in sorcery, sects and so forth, but they are not fully understood. Not all people are just because they're written and know how to read and write, they understand in the economy, Serbia comes first, they're not sectarians, you know. A long time ago, man’s fear of those who do not understand and who do not understand is known. Remember Galileo, whom they burned at the stake because he said something that did not like and did not understand the broad crowds at the time. They hated him, gentlemen, and I tell you not to hate and fear educated and smart just because you may not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2687	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2688	There are five laws that hardly have any common touch points, unless it is understood that the law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is collateral damage to the Insurance Bill. Let's get in line. The first law, which the government of Vojislav Kostunica promises will build apartments for young couples and all those who have no settled housing issue in Serbia. It's not a bad idea, it's acceptable, every government thinks about it, and it has an obligation to settle it and solve it, and to allow people under more favourable conditions to get to the roof over their heads. But this government is a kind of specific person, offering us a paper titled - a bill on a national housing insurance corporation. If we go over this -- to the national, since half of the government has a reluctance to everything that's national, there's a problem with what's in this bill -- corporations. If it's a corporation, then it would probably have to be a company, a company of capital. Whoever wrote this text obviously didn't watch the Company Act. If he had looked at the Company Act, he would have seen how a company of capital is formed and that in the name must also have a abbreviations as to how its capital is expressed - a stock company, d.o.o. The state, however, can also form a public enterprise, but here we only have a sign that it's a legal person. You, under this law, will not be able to register this in a commercial court of law. Here's why, because this law is practically a founding act of a company. When you read this whole bill, you can't see here whether it's a company formed to gain profits or maybe it's a non-profit association. Founding capital is the minimum one who knows the Company Act, but this one is not divided into action. The founding capital is not expressed, I guess this corporation is going to work in some rooms, I guess it's going to have some immovable and movable property, there's no such thing as that. You don't even know which person is authorized to apply for court registration, you don't know anything here. There's not even a code of action here. Now, when you look at what you've mentioned here in Article 9 as a matter of activity, call, corporations, and others that are involved in insurance, then I have to turn to whoever wrote this text to draw attention that this session is also on the agenda and the insurance law and he says - the kind of non-life insurance, Article 10. The bill, well, has point 14) where it is said – insurance of loans that cover, so the risks are listed, and among other things, there is one such risk of insurance of loans for residential construction. To make things even weirder, whoever wrote this law has not seen the proposal of this law. Article 19 says: ban on the use of the term "security". Probably whoever wrote this first law thought it was a law to provide bank claims, not to provide bank claims based on housing loans. It wasn't an accident. It's not expert ignorance, it's a prank we're trying to indicate will happen. It will happen for one simple reason, which this law guarantees only the stability of banks and states takes over, through this corporation, the risk of the bank not losing. And when you look at the structure of a housing loan that would be paid off for 20 years, then you can notice that interest exceeds the basic capital at the start of taking credit. So, if the apartment is 30,000 euros, the total commitment will probably be twice as large. So, who's in charge? The state through the corporation provides banks, and it's selected banks, that they won't lose interest. They probably won't lose the substance, or the amount of credit they gave to the citizen, based on the collection by the realization of the mortgage. There, that's the prank. This prank doesn't need a commercial. For this prank, it's enough to take what the builders say, the plot, the paper, add up and take away, and see that the problem of high interest, which burdens the citizens, needs to be resolved by the bank by a corporation that will guarantee profits and profits. And in light of some lay remarks that no interest is prescribed by law, we have a problem with housing and at all with all loans, a problem of high interest; whether it's ten, twelve, or who knows how much. We have a problem that one MP pointed to earlier -- we don't have permanent sources of funds, banks don't have the potential for placements, especially for long-term placements, because for plasma risks it takes 20 years. How's the interest coming down? It collapses only by producing, increasing the amount of goods on the market, growing production, and there's the problem. This and the previous government did everything to destroy production in our country, and now it's reportedly this government remembered, or that part of this government that allowed savage liberalisation of foreign trade in 2001, that it takes a little bit of a turnoff to encourage domestic production. Too late. If you really want us to help, then let's make a housing policy strategy. The housing policy strategy cannot be a law on insurance or more precise – on providing bank claims based on housing loans. Our apartment building went into trouble back in 1990. We all know that. She got into a lot of trouble. At the time, banks were neither ready nor able to borrow housing, when there was a far better situation on the financial market. Today, a law like this only helps selected banks. It's not helping the citizens. It helps citizens who already have to eventually, in a way, increase their assets, and that's a re-elected number of people. Is there equality here? Is there equality there? How will a young couple, with a college degree, and get a job, how can they repay this loan? I can't. It might be better to consider whether the stimulation of housing lending to business banks could be done through some monetary policy adjustments, in terms of reserves, liquidity, etc., that banks are stimulated to give long-term loans. But the problem is that our banks are now operating as classic profit organisations, which are only interested in profit. They don't want to take any chances. They don't want anything to turn on their backs. And they don't need to do that, because they're privatized. But those in which there was state capital, they were destroyed and that's why we have that third law where you're looking, practically, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to determine both the conditions and the way, and all for the trading of securities from the values it received under some federal and republican regulations, based on the assets acquired by the Republic by the conversion of claims to some companies, based on foreign exchange savings, the actions that came into possession of the state based on old foreign currency savings and those other two categories. And there's an installed intention of abuse. The government prescribes everything, both the conditions and the way. Well, that's impossible. That's impossible. The National Assembly can prescribe terms and conditions, and the Government has to report as an economic entity and as someone who owns securities of value, to participate in the market in the trade of these securities of value. But no, it's here now that you want to finish the job and the property of former banks, because it's obviously devoid of intent when it comes to the National Savings Bank and some other banks. And, of course, at the head of that column is G17 plus in the image of Miroljub Labus and the image of Mladjan Dinkic. I don't dispute the People's Messengers, maybe half of them don't even know about this vile variant. That's the story. The first law has no legal basis. The draft law on national corporation has no legal or constitutional basis. The fact that you've called for an opportunity to edit the financial system has nothing to do with this bill and don't expertly bring us here in an awkward situation to point to the mental disadvantages of what's written here. Take care of those regulations. Secondly, if this law is passed, the government of the Republic of Serbia will very skillfully create money. That's what you need to be sure of. Someone said – records of values related to old foreign savings, etc. will be included in this process, as it is necessary to provide charters of values to cover those 160m euros. We've submitted some amendments. I don't want to go into their content, and what you're told is that these two laws, first and second, don't need to be adopted. There's more damage. He says he'll be alive in September. What year? Like a guarantee fund. The law was passed last year, it was supposed to take effect on September, so it wasn't, so most of them passed those changes and supplements a month ago; neither will that fund, be sure. These laws cannot solve the structural problems of our economy. I can't, because nothing was done to balance goods and money. Nothing's been done. It's all done, but it's done the opposite. Financial market experts showed up. The market is underdeveloped, maltene, and it doesn't exist. There are some yellows, they finish the job on account of they know they appreciate what capital is, and, of course, the money's congested. Where's the money going? They go into the hands of five or six financial lobbys and the end of the story. And here we have nice stories, so someone else says -- what you're saying, it's social demagogy. Remember, you accused us of social demagogy. I'll see you, God of health, in a few months, and you'll see what the effects of your regulations and your laws are. You'll hear from citizens who are fables. As for the addition of the NBS Act, well, here's to understanding what it's about: it's like now we're passing a private security law and then we write in that law -- arrest jobs instead of police will do "safety-Vracar". It's your law on the NBS law. So, control, supervision, permission, what the Federal Ministry of Finance did, based on the Constitutional Charter, since it all went to the Republic Ministry of Finance, that's what it should do. The constitution didn't change anything in the meantime. No, now they're telling us, Jelasic's experts showed up with good salaries, unsuspecting, and they can close the circle, and banks, insurance companies... Remember, we're getting lucky games. And it's going to be tied into this circuit. All the money under G17 plus. Of course, Vojislav Kostunica probably accepts it as soon as he doesn't object. The man's counting, he's probably gonna run out of some affair and he's gonna be clean again. That's the kind of prime minister we have. He'll be clean again. I'm not interfering, we're partying it out, it's being pushed there by the G17 plus, we don't know. We're gonna have fun here with the polling committees, probably, for a pretty long time, and why? About money, people fight. There will be a conflict of financial lobbies. Why did this guy make this much money and less money? There's going to be documentation and confirmation. He's got one of his own to show for himself. Then he'll shake in the state. Believe me, it's gonna shake. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not been changed, and since it has not been changed, it means that the tasks of issuing permits, authority, supervision, control etc. Everything should be in the Ministry of Finance or under the patronage of the Ministry of Finance. The central monetary institution can't do this job, to be clear, it can't, because then the entire financial power concentrates in the hands of something outside the executive authority. Of course, the promoter made sure it was just like that. As for this last, fifth law, and some say anti-corruption regulations, etc., I get the impression that it happened in that folk's -- she saw a frog where the horses are wetting, and she raised her legs. Here's why. This law does not prevent corruption, but in essence it is necessary to define the contractual will of something called state, state authority, public enterprise and anyone operating through state resources. This law should define its contractual will and be in line with some of the objectives set by state and economic policy, including business policies, when it comes to public enterprises. Anyone who thinks this law prevents corruption is wrong. Since the tender started... You heard the example a few days ago, an ordinary tap in the size of this pay phone came out to 7,000 euros and everything, of course, clean, legal, all justified. And if you ask any entrepreneurs, I'd tell you, the 300 euros he's given will end. Don't hide behind the rules. With this change and addition, it is reportedly that some protection for the persons involved in the tender and consider that there has been some infringement of the procedure and that their rights have been violated; some post-festum protection is provided to them. That's not true at all. First of all, whoever's a little in some business knows that these objections can only be written naively, because as soon as he writes an objection, he probably can't work with that firm anymore, so let's make him the best offer. There are other relationships in these business matters. I'm being challenged, and you're probably going to get it out, push it out, norm something that goes into morale, prescribe some penalties, probably those penalties should be regulated by criminal law, not this, as well as other regulations. I'd point to one thing. There is one area that no one wanted to regulate, nor the previous government, nor Djelic when he passed the law, nor when they changed it. It could have been regulated in a similar way, only that whoever wrote this law had gone to his public procurement office to see the opinions that the administration had given, the consent it had given, and the attitudes it had taken in connection with the Public Procurement Act. The law on public procurement is a Slovenian law, prescribed, so for the first five months there were translation problems, so they gave special opinions, translated people from Serbian to Serbian again; and just so you know what the quality of the law is. This law, for example, does not cover consulting services, consulting services are not. One example: the government of the Republic of Serbia decides to write a regulation, which does not call in a tender, so that everyone interested in providing writing services? In that previous government, it is known, the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, neither tender nor anything, ends the job. Anti-monopolitan law, distributed by professors of money; and other regulations also, there was no tender at all. There was no competition. It wasn't so-called. transparency. No, it's done. Just to remind you, 35% of all loans, loans we got for these two or three years from international financial organisations, in structure, 35% were for some services coming from abroad, and we're paying 100%, and we're probably only taking 65% of that. There is no corruption in this law. Furthermore, services of intervention, of course, I'm very informed, so I'm talking about intervention services. Go to your administration and see who she has given consent to that the services of mediation can be without a restrictive procedure and without a tender procedure. What's behind that? You didn't regulate that, of course. Why? You know who can do it and who can do it. You know who gets the consent. One previous minister, Eurofit, his enterprise for geometric services, everything measured, no tender, nothing, it's all over. Did you prevent corruption? You're not. It's not stopped. It was necessary to restrain the people who came to power not to waste state money, and it is commendable, and everyone should do it, but don't do it in this way, pro forms, the provisions of the laws that contain the formula for playing, and therefore go to interpretations and therefore the administration gives various consents, approvals for everything and everything. Of course, when you give consent, everything is clear. Be assured everything is dirty, and absolutely filthy. Furthermore, the procedure before the commission is somewhat resolved, but who can when he reads this law after the amendments and the supplement to say, but really say, that the correct bidder, the public tender participant, is protected and that this law guarantees that he was the most favourable one, gets the most points, regardless of which system the acquirer chooses, determines who he chooses in the tender. Can we say that this law guarantees that one who is the best of quality gets a job? No one can guarantee it. Since no one can guarantee it, then there is really a question of whether we need such a law at all. It seems a little anachronous, people won't understand why I'm criticizing the whole law, the whole concept of the law, because everyone told fairy tales about how to prevent robbery and theft. If the budget is several times higher in 2001 than in 2000, if the budget is higher in 2002 than in 2001, in 2003, it is quite normal that bigger funds went for purchases, it is only natural that something was obtained at a much higher price than it was obtained in 2000. When something compares, the grandmothers should be compared to the grandmothers, frogs with frogs, not to mix it up and make one media story and the man who watches TV and watches this broadcast can really understand and say - so here something epochal happened. What the hell happened epochally? Legalized what was done. Some of them got nicknames, someone got the nickname "6%" in Capac, and someone got a nickname in Nis. The public secret has become, you call a tender and you finish the job, even if you get three, four, even better done. That's not what prevents this law. He has no intention of stopping it, and now he's presenting himself as something epochal. Epochally, professors gather around some institute, make a gig, take 300, 400 thousand dinars for something they might have copied from a book, finish the job, everything is clean, everything is quiet, everyone satisfied, and more experts. You know what? There's also a master who can suck it up to them. Believe me, there is, and there is a master over the master, so you know. No one's the strongest, there's always someone stronger. Remember, I warn you, the voters are stronger than all of this. Don't underestimate them, don't underestimate the unconstitutional law on the national corporation that needs to secure the bank's claim. The same day you suggest contradictory things. Is there one of you who checks these laws, do they have any mental circuits, can chronologically match each other? No, here on the media, push on the muscles, and we'll make 50,000 apartments. Let's make it ten percent, and let's all jump out of luck, but there won't be any, there'll be money and a guarantee of profit to whoever gets into the business of residential lending. He's only guaranteed credit, no guarantee of housing, no stability for whoever takes that loan. Look at these banks that came to us working. Ten years ago, the Constitutional Court annulled contracts, or decisions or regulations of banks, and on that basis, regular courts annulled some contracts and protected borrowers, if there was a clause for harmonising the war with the growth of the mark. Now it's a normal thing, if payment is done through an administrative ban, to determine the monthly war, and for three months, somewhere within a month, the worker gets a notice that, because of the change in the rate of dinar according to the euro, you have to pay another 700 dinars, so when it's added up and subtracted, you can see that there goes 1:1,2. That's a good loan. Besides, I don't know why we're even talking about this. In 2000, those commercials did not say that the law would be passed to get apartments on credit, it was not said that we would have to change the law to get a car on loan, it is not said that we should send children abroad on the basis of the law. We didn't need the law in 2000. What do you need the law for today? There's no need. So I urge all MPs to return these five laws to our government, let her look at it for a little bit, find a constitutional and legal basis, and, for God's sake, for some laws and a mentally sustainable basis, because, believe me, few more can deceive these voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2689	Replica, Branislav Ristivojevic, and then the word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2690	Dear fellow Members of the People, it is really hard to respond to Mr Krasic's esteemed fellow MPs for this long and meaningful exposure, but I have made some efforts. I listened very carefully to him for all 27 minutes and I will try to give him a few answers, some inconsistencies, inconsistencies in his presentation, and, for God's sake, to put him in an unequal position of certain categories of our citizens. I really don't know for what reason, whether it's in the politics of the SRS or not. You're saying, dear colleague, that our apartment was still in trouble in 1990, and it's been a day and a day. Ah, here's the thing. It's a year, it's 14 years between. What did you, the esteemed colleagues of the SRS, do these 14 years? You've been in the Republic government for at least two years, 1998 and 1999, and what have you done to solve the problems of housing? Nothing. You found that the problems existed in 1990, they exist today, and that period when you were in power as if it wasn't there, as if it were "time eaten by locusts". Why didn't you do something to stimulate the apartment building? Why didn't you solve the problems of those who don't have apartments in this country? You say, distinguished colleagues, that this law promises some apartments, that we build some apartments for some young couples and things like that. I can tell you one thing - while this government is responsible for the management of the country, the state will no longer build anyone's apartments. It's high time in this country to break up with this socialist self-government consciousness, where the state appears as an all-powerful waiter with full plates and put one in front of each one. You understand, the state doesn't build anyone's apartments, or whoever gets an apartment from the state, or who needs to get one, or who needs to give it to. The job of the state is to create conditions to stimulate those who have capital, to give it to those who do not, so that those with that capital can go to the apartment market and buy an apartment there. It's the job of this law. That's what this government is proposing. So you've completely misunderstood that we're building apartments or that we're promising someone apartments. No, it's not, nor will it be as long as this government works. The only thing will be to create a favourable market environment, stimulate certain production, but nothing more. The state is not, nor should it be, some almighty brother present in our lives to direct us, to guide us. She just needs to create conditions for us, and each of us has to work for that apartment on its own. Everyone will still have to, and according to this law, to earn that apartment of theirs, not get that apartment, not be given to him, nor be walled. You say, dear colleague, that some young married couple with a college graduate will pay some wars for these apartments. I put an accent just to say "with college"; and what's wrong, dear colleague, to those who don't have a college degree? Does the SRS only go to building apartments with colleges, and you'll probably put those with high school people in the seal? What are you going to do with them? What about our fellow citizens who don't even have education? Do they perhaps not have the right to these loans? It doesn't matter how they pay the payments for those loans. This law does not make any difference between these people, as if it matters now whether someone has a college or doesn't have a college degree, as if someone has a formal education or does not have a formal education. This law simply needs to create a favourable environment for the development of housing, this law needs to lower the price of capital on the market and then it should be a bogeyman. It is natural and normal to ensure that banks are sought. Who else will borrow money, but whoever has it, which is the banks. If we reduce the risk to banks, they will be stimulated to offer money on the market on better terms. (President: Time, Mr. Ristivoevich, be kind. ( ) If that money is on the market under better conditions, it is natural that people will take it easier, whether they are a young couple, whether they are an old couple, whether they are a married couple at all, whether they have a higher education, whether they have a college, whether they have a high school or not. I'm sorry, Mr. Ristivoevich. ) Then they'll go to the market to buy an apartment, and when they go to buy an apartment, it'll give a momentum to the housing industry, and the building industry's building materials industry should be the momentum of economic development in this country. What's very important is that we put all the citizens of this law in one position, regardless of whether they're a married couple, whether they have a college degree. The way I see it, you'd put them in different positions; all that matters is whether students get apartments and whether they can repay loans, and for these uneducated people, it's as if you don't care. I can't believe it. It's just amazing to me. I repeat, you didn't do anything when you had the chance in 1998 and 1999 to solve the building plan, because you found problems both in 1990 and now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2691	Thank you. Wait a minute, you'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic. Just to let you know, Mr. Ristivoevich, from the time of the MPs' group, you will be taken three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. Excuse me, first I saw Mr. Sarovic and then you. According to the Rules of Procedure, make a deal. Come on, after years. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Please specify a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2692	I'm referring to article 100. Rules of Procedure. I have to explain to Mr. Ristivojevic. I'm glad I got the discussion done. Of course, the SRS is famous for making no difference... You'll be kind enough to quote a member, please. ( ) Article 100, was offensively expressed. I find that offensive, and now I'm going to tell you why. I think it is offensive primarily for the SRS, because it does not make any division among the citizens, but I have used the term – the young couple for the completed university - on purpose and precisely because of television advertising and what was some political matrix of the entire DOS, which is young and educated leaving the country, going abroad. It was an objection to the previous government, by the previous government, and then it turned out that much more went abroad during the previous government, just those young, educated, educated, than during the previous government. If I'd asked someone to criticize me, they probably wouldn't have done it. That's why I'm grateful. I worked on a housing problem for about eight years, directly participated in the construction of over 200 apartments, held more than 2.5 thousand apartments during the privatisation of the housing fund, was one of the few who sent elaborates and studies to the government, and in that government was Prime Minister Zelenovic, and later Radoman Božovic, where I developed a mortgage publishing system and a system for crediting residential construction through banks. To honor me that we are from the SRS for a socialist concept where the state is above all, and she knows best what's best for the individual, it's a big failure, an auto goal, because I represent completely other political views. Please don't do that time when the SRS was in power to call the time the locusts ate. It was a time when it had to be answered in several very important places. It was supposed to contain terrorism, and you see today that the whole world is struggling with terrorism, it was meant to stop a NATO bombing pact, and it was meant to honor citizens who listen to those sherpas and those pots. So, between three Germans and a 10-year blockade, sanctions and the desire of the one who introduced it to compromise life here, we managed to preserve both the people and the state, and in 2000 you confirmed us in everything we did, because in much more difficult conditions, we achieved much better conditions than when you took those huge loans and destroyed everything that could be destroyed. Take care when you criticise, because I will always put in your arms and the NATO Pact, and the sherpees and pots, and what the Resistance is now persecuting around these powerful pairs and this funding of some columns that were supposed to tear down the regime. (President: Time. I'll always mention that, because I know very well who he is, what, where and when he worked.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2693	Thank you. Mr. Sarovic, are you giving up or not? He's not here. Here you go, Mr. Ristivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2694	Dear counterpart Mr Krasic went out for this phone booth under article 100, however, he did not say anything about article 100 at all. Article 99 says - the speaker can talk about the issue on the agenda. If you yourself have limited yourself to going out for this phone booth under Article 100, it means that you have tried to point to some alleged violation of the dignity of this assembly and so on, then you can only talk about it, and you cannot talk about what you've been doing and act like you're personally offended, to point out that you've been doing it for 8-9 years. I don't doubt it, and I have a lot of respect for the results of your private and business life, but that's not what I'm talking about. I was talking about the results of SRS' work on the plan to solve housing problems in this country, at a time when she was in power, and there were a lot of these problems, you found them yourself, you didn't solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2695	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2696	Ladies and gentlemen, before commenting on the five laws in a united principle debate that is currently under way, only the correction of an untruth spoken for by this speaker, and in the defense of Galileo Galileo. Galileo Galileo was never burned, Jordano Bruno was burned in 1600, and since we are followers of the spirit of Galileo, Copernicus and Jordan Bruno, then let's say what he did. He gave up learning, after suffering with Inquisition, and then quietly mumbled "epur you're flies" – still moving. I would like, as an opposition MP, to use the same sentence as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately I cannot, standing in place, not moving anywhere. So five laws in a united debate, a general comment – one can be subdued under the "political law", the other are "technically", and the third are "inapplicable". In a row. The draft law on the national housing insurance corporation submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia will try to paint through Article 4 in Chapter Two – The founding stake and resources for the work of the corporation. So: "The funds for the establishment and start of the corporate work are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The founding capital is at least 10,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, per middle rate on the day of payment." A total of four questions shall be raised from this article. If it is true, as the finance minister said, there will be no budget rebalance, then he is obliged to announce to this assembly what other budgetary techniques he will be positioning for the national housing insurance corporation after the adoption of this law. The second question is, what do you want with this big and this starting role, the founding capital of 10 million euros, and what can you do? To take a picture of what can be done, and what will not, unfortunately, be done by this law, we will put ourselves in the role of one who can turn to the Republic of Serbia to buy an apartment. If he is employed by state authorities, then he will not address himself, since he has a regulation on buying an apartment for 40 years and with a lower interest; this applies to some 40,000 people employed by state authorities and their families. If he's a tenant, then he pays a sub-unitary war between 200 and 300 euros and he can't turn around to buy an apartment, because there are two key laws missing to make this applicable, so it's not just political law. Therefore, there is no mortgage law and enforcement law. Without those two laws, this reasoning we heard was an incorrect and pure deception to the public of Serbia. Thirdly, if the benefits of this law will be used by those who have no problem in participating and those who have no problem having an arranged mortgage relationship with any bank, then this is (with perhaps a bit of malpractice, but still let me be allowed) a law for renters. A national corporation to buy extra living space. We wouldn't have anything to do with it, but say it. Renting is an investment branch, it is needed in Serbia as well as in any other country, but then say, when it comes to the national housing insurance corporation, that a real priority will be given to people who buy extra living space. What your argument was as the ruling majority, what was the minister's explanation, was a message to people without an apartment. It cannot be allowed to deceive such a species, because people without dwellings that are tenants in this way will not come to the apartment. Why does my amendment not apply to this member of the law? Because I think I know well what it's like to pass laws in a changing country -- you're between Scylla and Haribda, what you need to pass as a common list of laws and what society can endure, what entropy, sociological, psychological, whatever you want, that will accept those laws, because citizens who pressure you want to see law enforcement, not a list that you agree with the European Union. So, in that sense, if this is a step by step, if after this is followed by the law on executive procedure, the mortgage law, then it makes sense, but I repeat, the deception that this affects the reduction of interest and deception is that it also refers to the increased housing construction of the care that is without an apartment. They would be affected by what this congregation abolished, which is the Solidarity Fund and would be referred to by what is a solid housing building. Can local self-government solve the problem? Yeah, but it's just a rich local self-government. I can't have poor local self-government, which is more moral than legal or constitutional dilemma about whether this law is such that all citizens are equal in front of it. It's not. That's the basic message of the law. What does my amendment apply to? To Article 14. If the government of the Republic of Serbia is going to choose the board of directors, why choose the director of the corporation as well? It's already showing sloppyness, it's amateurism. So stay consistent and professional bar in the work concerning the management of this future firm and let the board of directors choose the director, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is quite clear that the board of directors elected by the Government will choose the director with the consent of the government's imagination, but this is unnecessary, this is an extra move, which, with confusion and amateurism, we have seen through government procedures for these unfulfilled 70, 60 days. An interest of 9% for someone who wants to buy an apartment, so 20 years from now practically pays two-and-a-half apartments -- that's something this law won't change in any way. I repeat, if it is followed by the law on executive procedure and mortgage law, then it will be a good move. It remains a congregation matter, a matter of respect for us MPs. If this will be applied since September, then why is the Assembly under emergency procedure and why literally two hours before the session we have the law material that we all know will be possible only in September, because the mortgage law follows the law on executive proceedings. More respect for the congregation is missing. There's excess haughtiness, and it doesn't go to harm the opposition or the Assembly, it always goes to the harm of the ruling majority. The second law, the insurance law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, belongs to that group of laws that you must pass. So it's just something that's the obligation of a changing country. What kind of bill are you making? To see if it can be applied, whether it will be accepted by the court, as soon as possible and as clearly as possible, is the amendments submitted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party and the three amendments that I have submitted to implement the separation of insurance and resecuritisation. Bring the law, you'll vote it anyway, but respect reality and let it apply from 1 January 2006. Split to life and lifeless, it's already happening. Give people a time limit in which the law can really be applied. Article 243 is excess in the insurance law. It refers to the government of the Republic of Serbia naming the management board and the management structure of the company and the minister starting privatisation. The minister can do it now, but I just don't know if he knows that now the privatisation minister can seek the privatisation of any insurance company, the finance minister to escort him; there are finished procedures as it is done. So that member is excess. Someone misinformed you or didn't have enough knowledge to really make a good law. The insurance law is linked to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. It is now not only political but rather a very clear picture of what is wanted by the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia has happily become an independent institution, thanks to two former governors. I hope that the current governor will retain the status of independence and will not give in to combinations with mandatory reserves, with the printing of money or with excessive loans to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Something very important, independent and lack of control has been mixed up here. So it is now clear that the intention of the National Bank of Serbia to be independent of everything is completely uncontrollable. That's not good for the current ruling majority. All you have to do is, when it comes to insurance, accept the amendment of the Democratic Party's MPs about the agency or the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party on administration. It's basically no different, but it's good by system. The moment one institution is not independent but has no one to control it, it is the start of the cancerous process of the institution, completely independent of the will of any political party, any political leader, it is bad for the system. So don't make a Vatican, untouchable institution within the system from the National Bank of Serbia. She has to be independent, but she has to be controlled. If security goes into the People's Bank this way and if what's obvious is that you still want to get into the People's Bank, it won't work at all. The fourth is the draft law amending and supplementing the Charter of Values Act; regardless of criticism, this is the technical law and this must be done because it is the status of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as it should be or as it is now. The draft law on public procurement is a set of amendments and additions that were otherwise in the assembly procedure, and it would be good for you to accept amendments for the simple reason that most of them are about poor copying members. So you have members of the law that come from one another, where the resulting part of the text of a member of the law to which the subsequent member applies is missing. Will the law on public procurement really produce good results? Yes, it is, and it is, as well as the law on insurance, evidence in support of the importance that when you try to change the country that changes then you must very carefully measure what it is that law is a good result and that you never fall into a trap of deception, inaccuracy and pulsism with the hope that in this National Assembly there are no MPs who understand the legal system, the European normative system and what Serbia should be in 2006, 2007 and 2008 when we reach the stage that we can join countries that join the European Union. As we know all about Galileo Galileo, we know about this, but we are truly sorry that nothing is moving so far. I could run MPs of the ruling majority looking for a quorum, if at least they could run, although it's the presidency's task. The chairman had just made quotas of time by taking the MP's time away from the parliamentary group. It can't, it can't. You can punish the MPs, but you can't take up the time of the parliamentary group, whether it's ruling or opposition, it's the time of the parliamentary group by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2697	I thank you for defending the ruling coalition, but don't worry, I will still apply the equal and future Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2698	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, on the basis of article 86, I have doubts about the existence of the quorum, but on the basis of Article 117, I am asking a question, as it seems to me that there are more cards than MPs. I'll give you an immediate explanation of why I'm saying this, or why I'm looking for this. That is because I believe that the ruling majority is not correct in this House. The ruling majority of five agenda points that have nothing to do with each other, except maybe two, united in one item of the agenda, refuses to extend the time for debate, and opposition MPs work day and night, believe me honestly. You haven't read the bill's proposals, and that's why you can laugh, but when we want to read the bill, it takes some time, we need to get some opinions, knowledge so that we can discuss here and get ready, we come here to discuss, and you don't give us the time, you combine those agenda points as you like, and you're an hour late from the beginning of the assembly session. In the end, you won't even do us the courtesy of listening to us, to tell you what we have. Don't, MPs of the ruling coalition, be so pleased and laugh, at least not you who were with us in the last term. You know the opposition can act differently and you laughed when the opposition acted differently at the time. Now you're lucky that all the opposition seems constructive to you and try to appreciate it, at least by sitting in benches. If you still don't appreciate it, I think you're going to have serious problems, because obviously you already have problems with yourself right now, because you can't even make a deal. Please establish a quorum and have the service check that there are cards in places where no MPs sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2699	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, as you requested, I will determine the quorum immediately. Before that, here's to the Rules of Procedure... Just a moment, wait, so to finish the sentence, before that I will determine the quorum, and at the same time I ask that you do not abuse the wording of the Rules of Procedure and do not speak of the subject by which you did not answer. The quorum question was resolved immediately. We could have checked it out. Be kind, I ask all the MPs to insert their MP cards to see if we have a quorum to work with. I find that 79 MPs are present in the O.R. No SRS and DS MPs are present. I'm taking a break until 12.45. Thank you. [[After break - 15.15]] We're continuing our work. Please determine the quorum before that. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that the session is attended by 88 MPs, which is enough to continue the work. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic. Did you, Mr. Glissic, insert your card into the MP's unit? Please excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2701	I always carry it with me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the MPs who discussed these five united points have pointed out that it is really difficult to discuss when you have five such different proposals, combined into a common debate, and if you were going to adopt these laws as quickly and as quickly as possible, you could have brought all 10 points of the agenda together into one debate. (From O.R.: Theme. ) It is a subject, because it is really hard to talk about all of this in the time that remains. I don't think there's much time left to seriously discuss every item of the agenda, but... (President: You have 13 minutes left, don't worry). That's enough. As for the first proposal, the first item of the agenda – the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation, the minister who explained this proposal as if he had not come out of the campaign in 2000 and only this argument followed by the proposed law does not fall short of those promises made in the 2000 election campaign. The only difference is that the SPS was then on the other hand, and now it is on the same side as Minister Mladjan Dinkic. That's the only fundamental difference as far as the first item of the agenda is concerned. As far as the insurance bill is concerned, it really seems to me that this is the way it tries to convince the sale of national insurance houses and that the proposed law really paves the way for such a procedure, which will probably come later. I would stick to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, since I thought he would be singled out and there would be special debates, so I devoted myself more to him. Of course, those who have proposed such a law, if they have consulted those who are contracting entities within the meaning of this law - so, which are users of the law, state bodies and organisations, institutions, that is. other indirect and direct beneficiaries of the budgets that apply this law - they know that their first and basic objection is related to the procedure which, when applying this law, really stretches to a very large period of time. The proposed law does not reduce or regulate the procedure in such a way as to speed up the procedure itself, as all those who are contracting, within the meaning of Article 3 of this Act, say that, in the first step, when a public tender is announced or instructed in the official public vote, they wait about 15 days. Almost everyone I consulted and asked about this law said it was about this deadline, and now it's legally being framed, since there was no direct timeline in the previous law, and everyone says it's too long. It would have been reasonable if it had been up to about seven days. That would speed up the whole process a lot. The process is being unnecessarily extended to those 15 days, and the later procedure itself will be re-scheduled to those two, two, and a half months. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Krasic handled this Public Procurement Act in the best way. In order not to repeat everything he said, I think it has a strong foothold, that it is very well founded and that it best reflects this law. If I were to recapture all of this, it would all matter in one sentence, that these are pretty unrealistic promises that you're trying to place right now in the election campaign. The people don't want unreal promises. The people want real, and I think they'll vote for real June 13th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2702	The word is made by the MP Jovan Palalic, and after Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2703	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when the situation in the Serbian economy was described in the previous period the most common word used to describe this situation is the word – risk. Participants in economic life, both domestic and foreign, also stressed the numerous risks that actually prevented and discouraged entrepreneurs, as well as companies to enter Serbia with their capital, ideas and projects, as well as human resources, more courageously into the arena of Serbia's market economy. The most frequently mentioned risks are political risks, instability, judicial failure, but also financial risks. The first two laws we are discussing at this session are mainly about removing or at least relieving a part of those risks, because the term is an unbreakable insurance related to the existence of risks that it needs to cover. When it comes to the law on the national housing insurance corporation, as presented in the explanation, it should achieve several objectives in its practical application. In addition to those general objectives, which are – building modern housing financing and encouraging housing in Serbia, the important effect of this law should be to encourage banks to provide more favourable, longer-term housing loans. This encouragement should have a source in the very essence of this law, which is to cover the risk of non-payment of housing credit in the process of triggering the mortgage, as a hostage property right of the borrower. This corporation was founded as a state body, and that should give it weight. The government's intensities are that housing, through this law, is a momentum of the entire economy, and here it's repeatedly true that it can only be done through more active and attractive housing loans that business banks would offer to borrow. One of the main problems that has previously affected the fact that credit conditions are unfavourable, which primarily refers to interest rates and the year of repayment, is the weak security of these loans and the difficult material position of most citizens who appear as beneficiaries of these loans. They have often been unable to get the anuity to pay off. So this law raises the question – what is the risk for business banks and how much this risk is mitigated by such a law, and how much mitigation, to be more precise, will be to cover the risks and affect the change in the business policy of banks when it comes to housing loans. This law is really good at its intention, but a few things can, if they don't get rid of it, defile that real, positive effect, and that is the possibility for citizens to provide favourable housing loans. The law that regulates the issue of property law has really bad solutions, which affect the lender, means the lender (and in this case the bank) has been struggling for months to sell the property. The price is often reduced; the market is unstable; the costs of the procedure are high. Anyone who has ever participated in a property sale process through a public auction knows what the problem is, and in what ways is possible, the debtor may make it more difficult to proceed indefinitely, not to mention that the current practice of business banks has been to establish this publishing right in a mortgage statement, which only complicates the procedure because a mortgage suit has to be filed, and only after that is the executive procedure. Of course, it has repeatedly been pointed out here that mortgage law must be amended, which will, in fact, essentially change the position of debtors throughout the process and make it impossible for debtors to have a privileged position, because it is a huge risk for business banks, which has so far been shown. The problem of unregistered property in Serbia is a special story, because there is no mortgage without registered real estate, and most of the property in Serbia is not registered. The bookmaking process is slow, complicated, and that risk is borne by banks. Of course, all these risks exist, but the national corporation is an important initial step towards defining a new housing policy and eliminating these risks. We believe that after this law, there will be a new set of important laws that will circle the story of securing these loans. This is why credit is expected to be available to citizens. When it comes to insurance law, as the minister said, he intends to regulate the insurance market in Serbia. It is not particularly necessary to highlight the problems that have arisen so far when it comes to the insurance market. Anyway, we had a large number of insurance companies that were insolvent, with a small portfolio, and often they didn't want to liquidate insurance damages, and which fell into bankruptcy at a slightly stronger pressure from the damage claims. After the bankruptcy of these insurance companies, there was a complicated process of collection from the guarantee fund, especially when it comes to insurance in the domains of compulsory insurance in traffic. Unfortunately, so far, there has been one policy for most insurance companies in Serbia, which is that damages are not liquidated after the damage claims have been made. And it deliberately went to unreal assessments of these damages in order to go into a long and complicated dispute after which insurance and insurance companies were both exhausted financially, affecting the end line and the absence of trust in insurance companies and insurance itself. The big problem was that most of the insurance didn't exist, especially when it comes to insurance in the economy, where there were major risks. So, these credit risks that the companies received were not covered, and that had a good effect on credit policy being unfavourable and inaccessible to a large number of businesses in our country. There is weak surveillance when dealing with insurance and winding-up damages, because, as I said, most of these damages were not liquidated in normal proceedings, but they went into long-term disputes. This new proposed law in a large number of its provisions solves this problem. He, when I said crediting the economy, removes the insurance of loans, financial losses or legal protection costs, as non-life insurance under Article 10 of this law, and we believe that after the adoption of the law, it will affect more courageous lending of the economy. The issue of supervision and the problem of the liquidation of damages, more specifically, the conduct of the insurance contract and the examination of the opposition of insurance undertakings to work, and the intervention in the settlement of compensation requirements to prevent the occurrence of the dispute, are provided for by Articles 143, 144 and 149 of the Law. These provisions will certainly encourage insurance companies to conclude policies, since the supervisory authorities can avoid the dispute and the damages being taken out. Certainly, these provisions can restore trust as far as insurance is concerned. The impression is that a good part of the provisions of this law increases supervision, the insurance market regulates, and trust returns. Of course, some questions remain open and I'd like to say a few words about them on this occasion. When it comes to the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, since we know that the share of life insurance in the overall structure of completed policies is very small, the question can be asked how many insurance companies, when life insurance and non-life insurance are strictly separated, have an interest in registering their activity exclusively for life insurance activities. Of course, the issue of supervision and the different models mentioned here and that exist repeatedly is repeated, and remains the issue of the advantage of the selected model. What is a newspaper is that mandatory liability insurance in traffic is solved by a special law. The question arises as to why the problem of public authority which has been transferred to the insurance organisations' associations is being removed from this law, because we see that in the transitional provisions of the insurance law there are still provisions in force now, and I believe soon the old law, which relate to the transfer of public powers. Of course, since insurance organisations' associations had important powers in terms of payment from the guarantee fund, the question is, what will happen to the guarantee fund, whether it will change its function or possibly its competence. All in all, this law will have positive effects when it comes to the possibility of faster disposal of damage, which has been a problem for most insurance companies so far. This will be achieved by greater insolvency of insurance companies, which will be formed by increasing the level of founding capital. Of course, the extent of the surveillance covered by these provisions will also affect that. In the end, I'd like to say a few words about the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act. There is an important area, and the transparency of budget spending, which, in the pre-law period, we all know, was the largest litter of corruption and embezzlement, and after the adoption of this law, we have adapted this problem to public procurement to European standards. However, the law itself, and its application in the previous period, did not solve some of the most important issues. We can say that the very intensity of this law was greatly impaired because of that application. As is known, the proposed amendments to the Law address the problem of efficiency and economical of the procurement process through the simplification of the contract allocation process, through the recording of advertising costs, the lengthy period of validity of the documentation or the possibility of direct guessing in exceptional circumstances, avoiding the possibility of abuse by the tenderer, that these exceptional circumstances may affect or be caused by some of its will. I'd like to say a few words here about the offerer's rights protection procedure. The procedure is what most disaved the current law in the previous period. The aim of the Law on Public Procurement was trust, and trust was played through the work or rather not being expressed by the Commission for Appeals and the protection of the rights of the tenderers. This commission was formed almost a year after the law was passed. It was, as is known, composed of the top representatives of the former government and in the period until December 2003 has not solved any disputed procurements that appeared ahead of it. According to some information, this lack of the Commission's work has led to some 800 cases of disputed procurement. The question is how much savings would have been in the budget if public procurement procedures had been resolved in the previous period, according to these complaints. By monitoring the work of the newly formed commission in December, we see that it has shown activity in this regard and that, within the deadlines prescribed by the law, issues of disputed procurement are largely resolved. What is important to say is that the proposed amendments to the Public Procurement Act form this commission as a very important body, because, as I said, it restores confidence in the public procurement process itself, forms as an independent, non-political, and with the domination of the profession. Independence is secured by changes in such a way that members of the Commission cannot be elected persons, meaning committees, MPs, cannot perform political functions or any function that would diminish the reputation of the Commission members or its independence. We believe that after the Commission is formed on these grounds that it is proposed to amend the law that trust in public procurement is restored, and that it will prevent the law from being fully implemented. Only then, after the amendments to this law and after the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, which we have recently brought forward, will it be said that we are more serious and determined to enter into the fight against corruption in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2704	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2705	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are having a difficult time discussing this set of financial laws, which is due to the lack of quorum, which for other reasons. I must say, before this break in the O.R., there were 47 MPs missing from the parliamentary majority, and I am saying this because the president mentioned which MPs are not in the O.R. Well, it wasn't the ones who didn't have to give the quorum to the Labour Assembly. So, in addition to the quorum, it's obvious that it's very difficult for those who support these laws to find arguments about it. First of all, the number of MPs coming out for this speaker from the parliamentary groups who have decided to support these laws: only one MP from the SP-NS parliamentary group, four DS MPs, four DSS MPs. Obviously, this is the law of one part of the Serbian government, one that has control over all the financial flows in the country, and I guess everyone in Serbia already knows it's about G17 plus, who is also trying to put these laws under his control what was not so far. Mr. Dinkic came to us at the end of this debate, I assume he is killing our arguments and again to hope for the citizens that after these laws are passed, they will be able to get to the apartment more easily. Citizens expect something else. Citizens expect interest rates to be at the level of European interest rates, therefore, not above 3-4% and expect a real price. We don't even have real interest rates, and we don't have them because we destroyed our banks. There are some foreign banks that have now conditioned that you have to pass a law like this, because they want to be secured. Who's going to secure them? They'll be secured by the state, thanks to this national corporation law. You didn't tell us where you'd find the money, you didn't say you were going to propose budget rebalancing, and it's not exactly what you're saying in the light of this bill, that it will contribute to the bank's giving more credit and under more favourable conditions. First of all, because it's the financial amount as the founding stake of this corporation that will limit how much credit the business bank will give in the first place, because each bank will want to secure its own credit. Of course he'll figure out what amount he can go to, and up to that level he'll build up and go. Some claimed that the real price of the apartment, citing its local example, is around 800 euros, and we all know that the apartment can be built in one mediocre location for 400-500 euros and that everything else is profit. So, I'm not talking about those locations that are extremely expensive, like downtown Belgrade, where the square of the apartment is 2,000 euros, but about those where it's on the market today, and yet thanks to some lobbys, because it's a price far from what's real, if that's what the offer and demand affect. There's something else that imposes such a great price on renting an apartment and selling an apartment. What's that? It's a long story, but we obviously can't deal with it until the state finds some moduso to separate some of the funds that it's going to start financing housing. This could, for example, be achieved by extracting some percentage of that sales tax that citizens pay when buying real estate. So, as these funds will be provided to only provide banks, because you only provide the borrower here, you should in some way ensure that the small citizen who wants to take the loan, it's a mortgage loan, which can come into a situation so that in a short period of time he won't be in a position to pay off his loan and then his apartment goes to the Age. The state would have to or could, in our opinion, find the means to ensure that the citizen in some way provides and enables him to bridge it and oblige him to continue to pay the loan afterwards. There'd be some security around here, but you don't take care of the citizens here, you're only taking care of the banks you're trying to stimulate to provide housing loans. I tried to figure out what kind of apartment I could borrow, given my salary. Come to my house, I'll make you coffee, don't worry. So, with my salary, under these conditions that 60 percent of my salary is due, I could buy some apartment of 35 - 36 square meters, at 20 years, with this 9% interest, and, of course, by the time I pay it off, it's two and a half apartments, not one apartment. That's how good that is. If we take into account the average salary of 14,000 dinars, if it can be owed 60 percent, please let someone calculate, someone from the ministry can, so when the minister comes out, he can tell us what kind of apartment such a citizen can buy, whether it's five, six or seven squares. So I can even understand the intention, but I can't understand that someone didn't put it all on paper and didn't calculate what it really could and who could get to the apartment this way. We just want you to tell the truth. The truth is that if someone has one valuable immovableity, they can earn, not make, but this way buy another valuable immovableity, and that's fine. People should be able to multiply their wealth as much as they can, both credit and otherwise. But not to talk then and not to throw dust in the eyes of that broad circle of citizens who still won't be able to do it and won't let them do it either. As for the law supplementing the National Bank Act, it is the result of this insurance law. We think it's a really wrong assessment or this is the intention, I'd rather say it's intention, because Mr Dinkic knows the National Bank very well, knows how powerful she can be and how powerful she is and wants to allow her to do what the Ministry should do in the future. When we say the Ministry, we mean the government. Why is it important to be a government? Because we can control the government, and we don't have much control over the National Bank. So, we want it to remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and that we, if you don't do this job right, can call you here to account and discuss it. (President: Time, Mrs Pop-Lazic). As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, everyone in this country knows that every tender has been set up. Never got the cheapest one in the tender, never the most favourable one, there's always some temporary situations, so it looks much more expensive. The only one who's okay whenever there's a public procurement, whenever there's a public tender, is a tender commission. She's always nice. For all this, therefore, as long as we could and as long as time allowed, we tried to draw attention to the lack of these laws, and I warn you, the parliamentary majority, in the future whenever you prepare us to talk about five laws with such limited time, you will never finish the debate, because 82 MPs will talk about each amendment and then it will take you six months. So think about it, don't like this regime before you, so now they're saying what we've been telling them... (President: You've been over two minutes, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please finish. )......................................................................................................... They've come to their senses. Don't wait for you to leave power, though you are the Government in continuity, take your mind and be as correct as possible, because we really have an obligation to convince each other, but we have an obligation and to warn the public about what he can expect if the parliamentary majority adopts some law. The SRS has no confidence in this government or Minister Dinkic and cannot support such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2706	Thank you. The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2707	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have before us a set of laws that represent the fulfillment of the work of the pre-election programs of the G17 Plus party. I suppose that's also the biggest reason that many opponents go out for this pay phone and discuss how they discuss it. In my presentation, I will put an accent on the law on the national housing insurance corporation, because I think I am obliged to professionally, as an architect, analyse this law in terms of both lending and development of construction. This law practically contains components of the pre-election programme G17 plus which I had the opportunity to expose to Serbian citizens in many stands in November and December of last year. What is encouraging for citizens and sad for the Assembly, which is that most citizens have understood the essence of this law, much better than many MPs of this assembly. Most of all because of these MPs who have not understood the essence of this law, much less because of the citizens, because I see that they have understood the essence of this law well, I will explain and repeat some postulates of this law. Our banks, as you well know, do not give long-term housing loans with favourable, small interest rates because such loans are high-risk. In order to reduce the risk of lending in housing and buying, housing purchases, the government is proposing a law establishing a corporation. This corporation will have the resources provided for by the budget that we adopted, and I am more surprised that the prominent MPs of this parliament do not know that they voted or did not vote for a budget that already holds the projected funds of 10m euros for the initial capital of this corporation. This initial capital represents a guarantee capital that increases with a 16 coefficient, which means that the guarantee potential is 160m euros, and as budgets are based on 30% of the participation, perhaps even less favourable, the guarantee is given to the remaining 70%, with an obligation of 75 to 85% on the employed capital. All this says in the law, or at least most of these digits exist in the law. This suggests that the initial capital, i.e. the credit potential for the value of the initial housing fund, is about 360m euros. It is a shame that MPs for the speaker mention the initial 10m euros and citizens who are supposed to be users of these loans today. I think a simple algebra operation like this may be complicated for some MPs, but it's de facto correct. On the other hand, it is also necessary to analyse the credit opportunities of citizens. A housing loan can be given to a citizen whose family's ability to pay the loan is minimum 160 euros. I would like to point out here that the presentations of certain MPs lead citizens astray, as it is constantly speculating with a figure of 300 to 350 euros. Of course, citizens who first resolve their housing issue will not resort to the purchase of an apartment whose credit payment will be 300 to 350 euros. So 150 euros away from the monthly budget for most of our citizens is a serious figure. I can safely say that in April when I lived out of 12,700 dinars, I couldn't spare the war for that loan. We are aware that many citizens are unable to pay the loan, but let's say that this is the start of a credit policy, loans in the purchase of apartments, and that the first assets and first amounts are also the largest amounts; how corporate work and housing policies and housing will develop, of course these loans will be increasingly favourable. I know it's not enough to initiate just the work of this corporation to stimulate housing and procurement and buying apartments. I am sure that the proposal for additional legal solutions that this area should further develop will help in this area. And the fact is that the G17 party plus the most important standard of citizens and raising citizens' standards. The financial incentive of housing and the development of housing loans and housing in general has the consequences of further social development. The first development result is the promotion of construction, then various segments of construction, road construction, construction of the municipal network, telecommunications, but also the production of construction materials, trade in construction materials, development of transport, in the final line and development of the banking sector. The countries of similar experiences say that housing incentives result in 40% of gross national income growth. All of these are not enough reasons for us to have positive views and positive opinions under this law. The most important thing is that the establishment of this corporation and adoption of this law will ensure that Serbian citizens can receive their first loans in September. I think all this that certain MPs are saying negatively about this law will be denied very quickly and that citizens who will be interested in becoming users of these loans will, in fact, best talk about the purpose of passing such a law. Otherwise, with this law, I need to pass a few accompanying laws, such as the mortgage law, real estate transport, the housing fund, and I can tell you that all these laws will soon be in the assembly procedure. This will create a solid environment for the development of construction, for the book, for the sale of apartments. On the other hand, the corporation will credit the apartment, which I believe will increase the housing supply and, most importantly, lower the price of the apartment square. The G17 Plus Party will actively participate in the implementation of all these laws and programmes, and citizens will probably be able to assess it and that the prizes in the next elections, and I, in the anger of individual opposition MPs, see that everyone is very well aware of it. Anyway, thanks to everyone who goes out and gives us a free commercial.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2708	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. He's not here. ) Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used the right set out in Article 89, want to hear the word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2709	Mr. President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think this debate on five points of the agenda and on the proposals for a law on insurance and on a national housing insurance corporation has completely left a debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement. On behalf of the SPS, I will use these 10 minutes and try to say something first about the amendments and additions to that law. Almost nothing has been said, and I even think that the promoter unearthed little time and attention has given this bill of law. We think that the amendments and additions to this law are good and that they were absolutely necessary. I must say that we MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, at least through changes and additions to this law, have experienced one political satisfaction, given that the largest number of amendments and additions to this law either on the trail or on the same solutions that we have proposed to the amendments that we have made when this law was in the process and when it was the subject of debate in the Assembly. I'm not saying this by accident. It is an important law which has not been implemented in the way it is envisaged, which has been fully nakaradically applied, which, by the circumstances, i.e. because of those in charge of implementing this law, created conditions for the economy of the closed circle, for corruption, for the privileges of individual companies, for the influence of major business lobbys and links with representatives of the previous government. I'm not saying this by chance, because there were a lot of complaints in the public about people who participated in competitions for getting jobs, about implementing this law, and unfortunately that's only left in the form of an appeal. None of the people indicating that it was done against the provisions of this law was resolved. Even if memory serves me well, there was a report published by members of the Anti-Corruption Council, and in the public it was suggested by journalists that several hundred complaints had arrived to the Commission to protect the rights of the bidder, my colleague reminded me that 800 complaints had arrived, and none of these complaints were considered. It is something that is a disgrace to the previous government, the state, and shows what the previous government was like to this law. The law was designed only to formally-legally be all right, and essentially to end affairs for the representatives of the government and, of course, for elected partners and to pool the money into the party register. So it's a good thing this law was passed. It is noted that certain provisions of this law are in line with the law on conflict of interest. And, we'll see if this commission, seeing as the members of the commission will be valued, will do anything about the complaints received. Of course, I'm counting on the state authorities, the financial inspection, and then the judicial authorities to finish that second part of the job that whoever didn't work in accordance with the law and who did the crime to be brought to justice. As far as the insurance bill is concerned, I must say that according to our knowledge, according to the expert public, most of the provisions of this law are not in itself problematic. It is good to introduce order in the area of insurance, it is good for citizens to be protected, that insurance companies that do not comply with the law or do not fulfil their obligations to citizens and put citizens in a subordinate position simply lose their ability to do so; it is good that conditions for obtaining permits are very precise, so I think that for those insurance companies that do their job is not a problematic increase in censorship and I think these conditions can be met. What is raised as a question is whether the right way of supervision of insurance has been found; this is a solution contained in the law, where insurance supervision is proposed by the National Bank of Serbia. Experiences from the world show that this is one way of controlling insurance operations, least applicable, so it is so much more interesting why the proposer has been identified as such a type of insurance supervision. The arguments of a type of economic justification, expertise and the like are objectively not strong because the Ministry of Finance is doing the job. The transitional and final provisions state that people who do the job will be taken over. Other things, too, don't seem so strong to me, so the minister himself in the debate said that perhaps in some time, when the conditions are obtained, the insurance agency will do these jobs. In some due time, probably four to five years, so these arguments will come up again. In addition, regarding the insurance law, I do not think an adequate way of applying the European Union provision on the separation of life and property insurance. It is said in that provision that jobs should be separated, but it also states that those insurance companies that did the job, in accordance with the law, can continue to do the job, so it is much more interesting that the provision is not applied until the end. Regarding privatisation, since the law also contains the provision, our opinion is that the state should have a strong national corporation where the state would be the majority owner. In Serbia, 98% of insurance businesses are doing "Dunav" and DDOR and the state must carefully consider the issue of privatisation. We believe that foreign capital should not be owned by more than 49% of the value of the insurance companies, but the state must generally very carefully consider this issue since it is big money that will be or are on the accounts of insurance companies and which can be used, of course, for the needs of state and society. There are a few more questions about the insurance law. Last time I reasonedly challenged some solutions that introduce retroactivity on the small door into practice, and I think it might be possible by accepting the amendments and removing the issue from the agenda. When it comes to the national housing insurance corporation, is this law necessary? Yeah. Will this law bring significant results? It's very disputable. If the law is not followed by other measures of government and state, if a state strategy is not made in the area of residential construction, this law will remain one grain in the sea of sand, a dead letter on paper and will not bring any significant improvement in the area of housing. Serbian citizens need to be able to obtain a cheap and long-term loan. Only this way won't be possible. The state must show that it trusts the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that it can create conditions for a citizen who needs an apartment to be in charge and of course to repay his obligations. So not only does it require a series of laws but it requires the adoption of a national housing strategy that involves the consent and co-operation of several ministries, by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Capital Investments, etc. So there's a lot of work to be done in this area to get to the apartment. The content of this law should correspond to the title, because there are many things about the mortgage market, mortgages, and the law applies to only one area and we have proposed certain amendments which, I think, can solve this issue. In any case, Serbia needs to create conditions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to reach a roof over their heads, paying for their own obligations, but obligations that may be appropriate for the personal income they receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2710	Does anyone else want a word by article 89 or someone who hasn't used it? No, I don't. ) I conclude a common principle... I know it's 14.05 p.m. and it's 14.06 p.m., the Rules of Procedure say clearly - from 10.00 to 18.00 hours for the Assembly, and one hour is a break in the meantime. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the national corporation for the insurance of residential loans, the draft law on insurance, the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market in Securities and other financial instruments and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. We're continuing our work on the agenda. Here you go. The quorum? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2711	My card was inserted, and I was going to say that, so I doubt the correctness of the electronic system and I'm asking that the electronic system reset and we're going to figure out how many actually present MPs are in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-07-0.u2712	Thank you. I ask the MPs to insert their MP cards to check the quorum. The electronic system shows that there are 70 MPs present. I'm asking the service to check the correctness of the electronic system. Count the MPs to see if the electronic system is in order. Since only 70 MPs are present in the O.R., as we can see, and thank you for checking, it means that the electronic system is in order. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue Monday at 12.00 hours. Yes, Monday at 12:00 p.m., because the largest number of MPs will be present at the temple of St. Sava on Monday morning at 9:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 164 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Martic, Esad Djudjevic and Dejan Rajcic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on NATIONAL CORRPORATION FOR CREDIT SURVEILLANCES (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Gordana Čomić, Veroljub Arsic, Milorad Mirčić, Zarko Obradović, Bojan Kekić, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Bojan Kekic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted to Articles 6 and 9. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, and during the session you will receive a report from the Finance Committee, which, I inform you under Article 159, has completed the work. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law on the national housing insurance corporation has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here you go.
