ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4839	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 134 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Korać and Dragan Vuksanovic and Meso Omerovic in the morning. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE AGENCY FOR THE LICENCE OF THE PURPOSE GOVERNMENTS (the follow-up in particular) I remind you that yesterday the National Assembly suspended its work in the course of the review of the amendment to Article 3. The bill, submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as well as by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, Zoran Stojkovic, justice minister and MP Dusan Prorokovic, deputy chairman of the DSS parliamentary group, participated in the search. We are continuing the search for this amendment. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4840	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in an amendment submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it is required that article 3 be deleted. The SRS is against the establishment of agencies, because we do not believe that at this point the situation in which the state is located, particularly economically and economically, that the budget is deficited and that 30 million dinars are needed for the establishment of such an agency and its work. If we look at all the jobs that this agency is to carry out, point (1) of Article 1(1) says "the issue, renewal and confiscation of the licence for the conduct of the business of the bankruptcy manager, in accordance with the law", and the draft bankruptcy law provides that the licence is to be renewed every three years, with the reason that this will prevent bankruptcy managers from being misused during the bankruptcy proceedings. It has already been said that this agency is set up, in fact, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the minister proposes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia members, directors, board of directors and boards of directors; means, the question arises – what if someone from the Government wants something to be hidden in the bankruptcy proceedings or that the bankruptcy proceedings are not conducted according to legal standards, that the price of the companies going into bankruptcy is lower and pressured through the agency on the bankruptcy administrator. We have witnessed the abuse of bankruptcy managers, who have done so either for their own account or for the expense of someone from the government. Simply, the renewal of the licence every three years can also mean that the bankruptcy manager who failed to act under someone's political decision cannot get a license, because the agency will in any case take away such a bankruptcy manager's license for the pressure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because some decision has not been made in action and for someone's benefit. Point 2) says - organizes and conducts a professional exam for the bankruptcy manager. Apparently, the bill promoter wants to tell us that bankruptcy managers should be men of the profession and that they will regulate it by this bill, but they can't be seen anywhere, nor in bankruptcy law, nor in the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, who conducts the exam. Who's forming that commission? What are the conditions for the members of that committee? Will that be regulated by the agency's statutes? Whoever adopts the statutes is already familiar to us; whoever makes the board of directors will be familiar to us, and the question is whether these people are already qualified enough to issue a license for a bankruptcy manager. In point 3, it is said - monitors the work and monitors the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. By what criteria? Probably referred to in point 7 -proposes national standards for the management of bankruptcy and code of ethics, which are adopted in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy proceedings. So, the proposer of this law is quite aware that that part of the company that you failed to privatise will go bankrupt. Not in bankruptcy, in order for a company to reorganize, to start production, to get out of the dubiosis created by crisis headquarters, but the only way to solve their problems is to go bankrupt, by which some code of ethics will be created – that these companies will, for the sake of their indifference, come into private hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4841	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word for Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4842	In Article 2. The draft law states that the Agency is operating in accordance with public service regulations. This would mean that the agency is practically one institution in school rank, home health, and so on. The Agency’s tasks are listed in Article 3 and special attention should be paid to points 1), (2) and (4) due to the last position in which these transactions are indicated to be carried out as entrusted transactions. If these are entrusted businesses, it means by definition that they are transactions that are originally in the jurisdiction of a state authority. Probably that state body is some kind of ministry. And what business it is – issues, renewals and withdrawals of the license to carry out the business of a bankruptcy manager, in accordance with the law. For comparison, I would like to cite a similar authority that gives assurance that someone passed a judicial exam, a belief that someone passed a state exam so that he could do some work in the public service and something like that. Point 2) - organizes and conducts a professional exam for the bankruptcy manager. Well, most of these expert exams are passed before the state authority and it's normal to have a confidential job. Point 4) - monitors the work and monitors the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Monitoring the development of the bankruptcy director's profession is a political-programme definition of the one who exercises power, but it is essentially not a classical state business. It's a study and analytical job, not a law enforcement job, so it could be difficult to say it's about trusting the state's business. And, I skipped – he controls the work of bankruptcy managers. I must remind you that within the 1st point of the agenda in that article, where it is described what is to be done by the bankruptcy administrator stated that the supervision of his work is done by a bankruptcy judge, a bankruptcyal judge, and, by the logic of things, probably by the assembly, or by the board of trustees. Here one authority, which is the agency, which is a para-state body, a body that is much closer to the executive than to the judicial authority, is now entrusted to oversee one of the participants in the court proceedings. So we come to the central theme of this law, this law practically regulates a judicial enforcer, an extended judicial enforcer and a person who will participate in the privatisation process, because it will depend on the privatisation process, provided that bankruptcy has as its ultimate objective bankruptcy, which means that bankruptcy is sold, turned into money and peace of trust. Based on these tiny parallels, it can be concluded that we really don't need this law and that this definition of yours in the name of the agency is a "licence" to hide the essence. These business deals with bankruptcy managers cannot be handed over to any agency, to any para-state authority. It needs to be arranged differently. If a person who wants to participate in some procedure as a bankruptcy manager should have additional knowledge, he should pass the exam, but the exam should be passed before the state authority, in front of the ministry. The ministry, eventually, should issue that license, or some confirmation that the person is qualified to do the job, and that is where the job is done. There is no more executive authority directly or indirectly through its authorities to influence the course and outcome of the bankruptcy proceedings. There is a central problem and bankruptcy law and a bankruptcy agency because neither the Assembly nor the Government are authorized to define the position and status of bankruptcy managers in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4843	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4844	Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, here we heard objections sent to the MPs of the SRS, and the objections were to the fact that only the MPs of the SRS in this assembly were doing the work for which the citizens chose them. The remarks came, which is very interesting, from a colleague who belongs to a party who loves himself to call the party DB. On the other hand, we are not even surprised by such objections, given that this party is the author of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly that we are working on here today, which is extremely restrictive and extremely undemocratic. The SRS, headed by our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is advocating democracy in Serbia. As such, in February we proposed to the National Assembly to bring in a Rules of Procedure that would allow the MP to do his job, which would respect both the MP and the citizens who sent the MP to this assembly. For reasons unknown to us, this Rules of Procedure has never been on the agenda before today, it has not been discussed, but here is the one, however it is, we are trying to defend the views of the SRS, to represent the opinion of the citizens who elected us. (From Hall: Theme) The subject, colleague, is an amendment to Article 4 of this Law, and in which way I will defend this amendment and convince the MPs to vote for this amendment is absolutely my business. You obviously don't sit here...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4845	You go ahead, Mrs. Radeta, the president of the assembly will decide if it's a topic. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4846	Mr. President, this applies to you, too, what I'm going to say in the context of the amendment's explanation is absolutely my business...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4847	Don't worry, I'll work on the Rules of Procedure, and you'll approach the subject now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4848	... And that's also according to the Rules of Procedure. In Article 4. The draft law on the licensing agency of bankruptcy managers in paragraph 1 states: "In the framework of the supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, the agency shall verify whether the bankruptcy manager performs tasks in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy proceedings, national standards for the management of bankruptcy and code of ethics. "There are two questions here, what will happen if this procedure does not comply with the law, what will be the consequences and who will suffer the consequences, this bill does not stand anywhere. You're talking about some code of ethics. The code to which this applies, whether it's the Code of Ethics of the Association of Hairdressers, the Association of Doves, you know, it's different ethics for different profiles and different groups of people, of course, if you exclude those general ethics that should be present with every normal and appropriate citizen. We have also stated in principle that we are absolutely against this law being passed, because in the formation of this agency, as far as the SRS is concerned, everything is absolutely under some suspicious circumstances. When I say everything, then I mean the way I hire this agency, in the way this agency's funding, on the responsibility of working or not working in this agency, and what I have just presented through Article 4(1) of this law, which is completely unsettled in this regard. For this reason, we have proposed that this member be deleted, as we have suggested that each member of this law be deleted individually, because this is the only way to make it known to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia that the SRS is indeed a principled party and that we are against the establishment of any agencies, that we do not think we need para-state bodies, that we do not need para-organs. We have bodies regulated by the Constitution and by law and within these bodies all state affairs can be done, of course, if we care that these jobs are done in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Serbian radicals certainly care about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4849	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4850	According to article 97, I demand the right to reply, because my presentation was misread yesterday, and it was by the People's MP Verica Radete here commented. So it's about this, I can't or can't defend anyone to explain their amendments however they want and how they know and know, nor can anyone be forbidden to submit any amendment to any member of the bill. It's highly undeniable. The Rules of Procedure, which were quite restrictive in that part, means, in that section, which speaks about the way the amendments were submitted, about their interpretation and the right to report on the word of the amendments, it was amended by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so that these provisions are no longer in force today. That's what I said yesterday, that the DSS MP's group didn't think of the Rules of Procedure changing in that sense and introducing restrictive provisions. It is the right of every MP to explain what he wants and whatever he wants. Therefore, there is a possibility for citizens to assess whether it is celery for working in parliament and whether it is good for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do certain things in a certain way. Then I said, and I was very clear, if one parliamentary group were to be defined as saying that one law which has 16 members is subject to amendments so that each member would be deleted, and that they would allow themselves, and according to the applicable business provisions, to speak of each of these amendments by practically speaking as if it were a matter of principled search, rather than a discussion of particulars. Excuse me, how and how to explain the amendment which deletes the member, and then the political position of that political group. That's not to argue, have that political attitude, not a problem, but what I've pointed to is this, it would be good for the citizens who are following this transmission to know what this is about. That's all it is. Don't be mad if I tell you about it publicly at the pay phone. That's the point of the story. So, you go ahead and do it like that, and we interpret it as a slowdown of work, as a distraction of Parliament's work; you say you have a legitimate right, because you are an opposition, you have a choice and you do it. So, the essence is not to correct the bill's proposal, but to vote against the bill, which could also be done by pleading in the principled search and later in the voting day, by voting against the law. All right, this is your right, you go out for a pay phone, you advertise, local elections go, you represent your potential candidates for local elections, that's your right. It's good to know it's a function of what you do, not a legislative function. Secondly, if one member of the law isn't good, I guess it's the basic order to fix it. We have recently heard an explanation in which this member of the law is not corrected, but deleted. That's the best way to explain what the function of what you're doing is. (President: Time. ) As far as agencies themselves are concerned, agencies are not something we can be against, because agencies, as bodies, as institutions, exist in other countries. There are 138 executive agencies in Britain. We were against the government managing state regulations and the regulations establishing institutions and institutions in Serbia. That's not possible. That's why the DSS has always been and will be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4851	Mr. Krassic, please. In accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure, no pitching to the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4852	We've tried something to fix this Article 4, but it's impossible to fix it. To make it look like something, then it has to be removed, erased, because it's impossible to fix. If you don't understand, I need to explain in detail what this is all about. You see, Article 4 paragraph 1 begins like this: "In the framework of supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, the agency checks... ". In this profession that we do -- writing laws, surveillance can mean -- it's either administrative or it's inspection. It doesn't define whether it's administrative or whether it's inspection. Whether it's administrative or inspectional, in this kind of control it can't be checked, but it's probably being determined, so it's a state-of-the-art law. But, okay. We have problems with translators, they're not used to translating these texts, they're used to others. Article 2 - Astonishment. I think the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation should resign or charge someone a fine. It is written: "The surveillance of Article 1 of this Member of the Agency shall take note of the written reports of the bankruptcy director, the bankruptcy judge... "How can someone watch what's in the court case? How can someone outside the court be watching? How is that possible? It is known in the court proceedings that there is a right to appeal to anyone who is interested, who participates in the proceedings. There is no possibility of the agency being a party in the process. Some other agency may be a party in the process, when it performs the function of a bankruptcy manager, when it comes to the destruction and destruction of social property, as you wrote in Article 14 of that bankruptcy law. But this can't stand in the law. When dealings are entrusted to an institution like this, which is treated as an institution, because it is organised with a status recognised under the Public Service Act, it cannot exercise supervision. You know who's doing administrative surveillance. There's an administrative inspection at the Justice Department and she's doing administrative surveillance. As part of the ministry, there are inspection bodies that carry out inspection controls, but that's a whole other matter, that's not this matter. It's impossible here, so by amendment you can't fix something that's ugly, bad, that can't exist. Of course, there must be an amendment to erase it. It's a special miracle that a man who works at some bankruptcy agency comes to a trade court - good afternoon, I'm the one and that, here's my ID, give your reports, I control the bankruptcy manager. That's impossible. What judge is allowed to report to third uninterested persons, who are not party to the proceedings? Madam Radeta, please do not disturb the speaker. ) Please, you had to keep in mind what you were introducing as a legal norm. Secondly, either replace the secretary of legislation or translators. This isn't how it works. You can see that we're going around here about the dictionary of foreign words. Just because you translated it like this doesn't mean this in English. You have to pay attention. I'm really sorry he didn't have what he was complaining about our amendments. I would find it very interesting for him to say how this can be fixed. He can't, he can't just erase himself. Delete this whole law in time, because you see, as we go from member to member, we show not holes, but ambitions. It's contrary to the legal order of this country. It may be funny, but believe me, it can be very tragic if this is how the destruction of the Serbian economy ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4853	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4854	After this discussion, it is obvious that we have some benefits, because whoever is to represent the promoter, we currently do not have a minister of economy, so now there is a minister of justice. It is obvious from Article 4, that the Proposer wants someone involved in the work of the judicial authorities, because this is the right that has been given to someone... because the bankruptcy proceedings are carried out by trade courts that appoint bankruptcy administrators, who make decisions, carry out the proceedings, and if anyone has the right to appeal, he has the right to appeal to the Greater Trade Court. Now we have an organ that will control the judicial authority. The independence of the judicial authority of one such pointless member has been questioned, as the bankruptcy administrator is merely conducting the procedure. The last word has a bankruptcy judge and a bankruptcy in the Trade Court, according to the bankruptcy law. Whoever wrote it like this would have to be aware of what he did. If this whole story revolves over the need to form an independent body that should issue licences to bankruptcy managers, it certainly cannot have the independence to have an agency proposed and appointed by the government. Wouldn't it be better if trade courts did it, if trade courts issued licenses, and the only one who had the right to lift someone's license was the High Court of Commerce. That's where the whole story's over. You have an independent branch of government that's done a similar job so far, which has qualified and trained people to assess whether the bankruptcy manager knows or doesn't know how to run the job. With one law, we've recently disbursed trade courts. Now, they don't have to run the legal registry anymore, they don't have to issue any more solutions. We started an agency for that. Now it's completely pointless, if we've relieved them of this job that he predicted, as it is said in certain exposés of various ministers and prime ministers, to open up here 200 to 300,000 new and small medium-sized enterprises, that is, they don't have to do so in commercial courts, but they can therefore issue 1,000 or 2,000 licenses for bankruptcy managers and that they're the only ones who can take that license away. Then maybe you've taken a better step towards the independence of the bankruptcy manager and you're giving some hope that bankruptcy procedures will be implemented in accordance with the law, with norms and, as you say, with the code of national bankruptcy ethics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4855	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I join the other members of the SRS, who generally consider that there should be no law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, or that there is no need at all in our legal system that there is an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. By its amendment to Article 5. I cited the bill's proposal as opening up the possibility of forming a lobby of bankruptcy managers and creating a narrow circle of people who would conduct increasingly certain bankruptcys in almost all businesses in Serbia. The provision of Article 5 states that in order to carry out certain professional tasks under its jurisdiction, the agencies may hire domestic or foreign legal or natural persons. This word "can be interpreted as saying that foreign legal or physical persons will definitely be hired. What kind of professional business are these from the agency's domain? If we take into account the provisions of Article 3. The draft law regulated by the Agency - to issue, renew, withdraw, organise and conduct a professional exam, run the directory of bankruptcy managers, monitor the application of regulations, collect and process statistical and other data, propose national standards - whether in one case, since the United States already has a governor in office of Serbian President here, will order that a specific legal or natural person be hired to run certain professional dealings in the domain of the licensing of bankruptcy managers. And, does anyone have powers, courage, courage, the ability to resist such a warrant from the United States, especially as officials from that country often say they are achieving certain national interests in the Balkans, so they will propose to meet certain national standards in this area. Is there someone in Serbia other than us in the SRS who will tell the Americans that something cannot, that something is ours, autonomously ours and that it is not theirs and that it cannot come to that. In an earlier period, we had a large number of abuses, it has already been said several times and it has been mentioned "Deloitte and Touche", for which many abuses have been linked and tendered in the privatisation and bankruptcy of many companies, not to mention the deposit insurance agency, bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks, for which many abuses are linked. I'll just mention the bankruptcy of the Sartida that was sold for $23 million, worth over $400 million, and that's when a German bank trusted in Sartida. I don't want to talk about who's individually guilty, but the director of the agency's council for a time was the president of one parliamentary party, and after that, Nemanja Kolesar, who has many financial malfeasances. DSS representatives often say – now we regulate this matter by law, it is now under parliament's control. That's not true. It's only formed by law, based on legal provisions, and otherwise it's completely under government control. The government appoints members of the Supervisory Board and controls the work of the bankruptcy management agency. It does not matter what legal regulations, whether they are legal acts or sublegal legal acts, under which regulations a certain institution is formed, and in this case the licensing agency of bankruptcy managers. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. As the former government did: The government adopts the regulation as a sublegal legal act and forms twenty agencies, bureaus, and does what they have already done; as an SRS MP, I see a certain continuity of the former government headed by the Democratic Party Boris Tadic and now the three governments of Boris Tadic, Bogoljub Karic and Vojislav Kostunica. In the end, often a party that has continuity in considering how certain institutions should be formed and done, so from this area advocates cohabitation with the current authority, but so should the party, and you who are in power formally, since you have members of the Government, should know when it comes to cohabitation that there are various colors of bedrooms and even yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4857	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4858	Article 5 is a really short member, a little word, but there's a lot of text between these words. The MPs who intend to vote for this bill will try to convince me that it is not good to vote for this bill, and here's why. I'll explain what's between words. The title of this article is – Doing certain professional tasks. In order to carry out certain professional activities under its jurisdiction, the Agency may hire domestic or foreign legal or natural persons. Organic unity with this article is a Article 6 where funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency are also donations, sponsorships and other funds coming from abroad. What's known for these four years, it's known, the public secret is that all that comes from abroad, about 35% stays abroad. Of course, it goes through the accounts here at our place, comes back through some consulting services of some foreign persons, and so they launder money in this space, they keep us in some dungeon, we serve them as an excuse, but they have great benefits that they can launder money nicely. When it is said - domestic legal or physical persons then it can be infallible to guess who it could be. One of those three marketing agencies that's being followed by DOS. Probably some institutes with some Begovics and Vodnelics, who, along with a fat commission, write regulations, laws, months of work, torture, translation, insert into our legal system some new institutes that don't even exist in the West. This way practically legalizes money laundering from Article 6 of this Act, much better through the agency. And yet I have to remind you, it doesn't mean if there's a donation that's been dropped and they're not under some state control. Since there was a lot of money going directly to the state authorities, a new formula has now been found to go to the agencies and therefore I remind you that there is no fundamental difference between the agencies formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia regulation and the agencies formed by law. It's just a matter of responsibility. When it forms a government, then it probably bears some moral and political responsibility, and when it is formed by law, then all of us, neither guilty nor due, bear that political and moral responsibility for our identification card allowing someone 300, 400, 500 and who knows how many thousands of dinars put in their pocket as a great expert who helps something. If you look a little deeper, and again between the lines, in which the professional assistance of foreigners and domestic experts from the mirror corners, then you see that points 2), 3) and 4) of Article 3 could not be considered because it is entrusted state affairs. It is likely that these foreigners and these domestic experts from some decent distance would follow the application of the rules governing the bankruptcy process, or what is in point 6) – collect and process statistical and other data of importance for the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure. It would probably make a good database, what's on the way to collapse, what's how much it's gone, when it's time for anyone to get involved, because, I have to remind you, the bankruptcy procedure is conjectured as an extended executive court procedure, and probably in that process, it's gonna have to be done. Probably people who work in the agricultural combination "Dragan Markovic" from Obrenovac will recognize what I listed. There are 600 employees, 3,000 hectares of farmland, 200 hectares of fruit, pig farm, cattle farm, bakery, mill and should be said to have been privatized for five months, and those who privatized them have not yet taken off chains and locks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4859	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4860	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are asking by amendment that Article 5 be deleted, meaning that the Agency for the conduct of certain professional tasks under its jurisdiction may hire domestic or foreign legal or natural persons. The government has continued its continuity and with this bill, which has established the previous one, it is that there is always one item in the budget that no one has answered precisely where this money is being spent. That item is called specialized services. The answers of all ministers, both the previous Bozidar Djelic and the current Mladjan Dinkic, are that specialised services are paying for science, that is, smartness, and the involvement of individual professional services. The question now arises whether the promoter was a far-sighted person, so he estimated that when this law begins to be implemented in this government, there will be no experts, so you will need, to some new government, professional service, or it is simply the desire of someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to engage some institutes that will sell their brains, and these same institutes have ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am very interested, when it comes to these 30 million dinars, how much will be allocated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, how much will be provided for specialised services, or for Article 5. A bill of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4861	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zarko Obradović, Jovan Todorovic and Milomir Minić and MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Not to be rejected, but to refuse, and that's why he's the subject of debate. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4862	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, requiring the removal of this member. A member should be deleted because it is impossible. It's impossible, and especially this second part of it, the second attitude, and I'm going to try to explain to you why it's impossible. Article 6 refers to the provision of funds for the establishment and operation of the Agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. The first position is -- funds for the establishment of the agency are provided from, and under point 1) -- the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The last member of the proposal says 30m dinars are provided from the Republika Srpska budget for the establishment of the agency. Yesterday, I said in the principle debate that these are significant funds, and we heard yesterday that it is over 400,000 euros, that these are huge funds for this country and that they should not be thrown away, that they can be used in a much more efficient and smarter way. According to point 2), funding for the establishment of the agency is provided from donations, contributions, sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. This is also controversial. What are these donations, who are the donors who will provide funds for the establishment of the agency? Could this agency be objective, impartial if it uses funds from donors, any legal, any natural persons, any domestic, any foreign ones. Is that the source of corruption in this agency's later work? The second bet refers to the Agency's working resources. That part of this article is impossible. It says here that the Agency's working resources are provided, so under point 1) - from the revenues the agency makes by performing operations under its jurisdiction. If the Agency's work is carefully examined, defined by Article 3 of this Act, it is easy to see that there is no permanent business, or business that provides permanent income. The agency will have a number of employees, people who will be in a permanent working relationship and who will have to receive certain earnings, salaries, compensation for their work. I'm interested in whether the bill promoter has made any projections on how many people will be employed in this agency. Besides the board of directors, the supervisory board, the director, there will be more employees, who will have to receive a monthly fee for their work. These transactions defined by Article 3 do not provide permanent income. The second thing, I ask you, how many Serbians need bankruptcy managers? Are we going to have an exam every day for some bankruptcy manager, every day to issue a license, so we can take money from these people? Probably not. It probably doesn't take so many bankruptcy managers to Serbia. No job listed in Article 3 provides permanent income, and we will have permanent costs in the work of this agency. The question is how to provide these funds to cover these constant costs. Point 2) again states that labour funds are provided from donations, contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and physical persons, and again the same story. It's saying again that this way it opens the way to corruption, crime, various machinations and malfeasances in the work of this agency, because it can't be impartial and objective, because some people who will have an interest in some bankruptcy process will be able, based on what donors are, to use various privileges, benefits and to gain some material or any other benefit. For these reasons, we propose that this member be deleted, but the smartest thing is to accept only the first amendment, not to accept the complete law, or the proposal, so that all of this remains with the Ministry of Economy, which, once again, is capable, both of human and material, and in any other way, of doing all these jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4863	Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4864	It is not clear to me at all how the proposer could have devised a system to fund the entrusted affairs of the state administration through donations and sponsorship. I must remind you, since you are constantly referring to international standards, the court cannot function and finance itself by donor means. It is possible only when it comes to The Hague tribunal, Soros separates, but now he has raised his hands because he has none of it. One state function cannot be financed by funds from abroad through donations and sponsorship. He can't, because he's getting into a question called the sovereignty of a state. In 2001, you did something, saying it was a difficult situation, that it burned down, that money had to come from abroad, that's a famous story, like the famous story of those 6.5 billion that were waiting at the border on October 5th, they were about to enter. It's easy for some people to laugh now. They came up with this law, so when they were in power, they pulled it. Apparently he didn't get into the agenda. Now they've got a new government, they've got no bow food, they've got no onions, they're representing this law here, and they're rubbing their hands. Can you imagine who's gonna rub everyone's hands because of this law? Anyone who wants to buy a good share of this economy, and we already have a few who have 5, 6, to 10%, that the nominal owners in Serbia, are very happy to give money for the agency's work. He's funding his own database. What in the next stage to buy? What's it worth? How can the competition be destroyed and sent into bankruptcy? That's the story. As soon as there's a few words... You know for a fact that there is an elaborate between the text, beautifully designed; which someone would give money to the agency to license bankruptcy managers. What would he be interested in if some quality people got that license? He must have some interest. The interest is recognizable when it comes to bankruptcy, as it is the final stage of privatisation in Serbia, designed by the one who allowed DOS to come to power. Crisis headquarters, tenders, auctions, and now go bankrupt, we're going bankrupt. Obligations come. Your coalition partners today can't agree just about the year we're going into debt crisis, but she's knocking on the door. Wrong policy. This agency serves as a mask that should distract us from looking at the essence of our problem. Of course, this article can't be fixed differently and it would be illusory that we are now submitting an amendment to ask that this section be deleted where the sponsorship or donation is listed. That would be pointless. How can we change something that's impossible to fix? We don't need this law. You divided it here, so you said: "Institute funds." So you said: "30 million you will separate to do so." It will never be done, be sure. Then you said, "Incomes made by performing the affairs of your jurisdiction." What revenue can it make? I don't believe it could be 10,000 euros per candidate's head. This could be some small, modest sum, probably some books to sell to students and candidates who would pass these exams, but that money only goes through the agency to those institutes, Begovic, Vodnelici, and Hiber is there, there are many. Of course they're interested in adopting this law, because they saw a mine where they could make money. I hope for some other member we'll give the right reasons and arguments, to see that you're in the wrong direction, because this isn't yours, the one who wrote it now rubs his hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4865	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4866	Dear colleagues, that's what bad, restrictive, restrictive, non-democratic Rules of Procedure means. In order to limit time for the MP to talk about the amendment, when I was talking about my amendment, I was only able to explain the first position for those five minutes, so my colleagues, they would not, had to come out and explain the rest of the article I submitted to the amendment. I expected, when Mr Aligrudic came forward earlier, that as a representative of the DSS argument he would try to convince us that we were wrong to submit these amendments, and instead, a colleague here tried to tell us what was in the interest of the Serbian citizens, whether our appearance would affect the rating of the SRS and I don't know what else he said. Mr. Aligrudic, we Serbian radicals know perfectly what the interest of Serbian citizens is. Serbian citizens know that we know that, and that's why our presidential candidate got a million-and-a-half Serbian votes 10 days ago. That's why we are the single strongest parliamentary group, with 82 MPs, and that's why the rating of the SRS is growing from day to day. You should certainly worry about the DSS rating which is falling dramatically from day to day, and it will only decline when Serbian citizens realize that you from the DSS are in favour of establishing an agency that will cost citizens 30 million dinars, and that the agency will serve only to employ party activists and activists of your coalition partners and that the agency will work to destroy this little remaining economy in Serbia. This is what you need to take care of and never say again – here you are, speaking when you speak to the MPs of the SRS. We are not talking here because you allow or not allow us, but because it is our parliamentary right and because it is our obligation to the citizens of Serbia who sent us to this Parliament. When it comes to the amendment to Article 7 of this law submitted by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, we in the SRS parliamentary group really looked at this member and discussed and considered how to fix Article 7 of this law, so we thought, if we say that words are deleted – the board of directors, you remain director and supervisory board; if we delete the director, the board of directors remain. We realized there was no other way for this member to be fixed, but to say that this member is deleted. For this very reason, we have suggested that Article 7 of the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers is deleted, because we think there should be no agency either, so if there is no agency, then there is no need for either the Board of Directors, nor the Supervisory Board, nor the Director. I suggest, dear colleagues, that you reconsider our amendments to try to save this last train from the Serbian economy that remains. If you don't already consider yourself ruling, to start production, to activate the economy, then at least don't destroy what's-it's working.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4867	Thank you to the People's Messenger, Verica Radetti. Here you are, reporting for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the representatives of the political party who tabled amendments to this bill have come out and disputed the existence of the agency. However, most of these MPs disagreed on the alternative. One number of MPs argues that licensing operations are carried out at the Ministry of Business, the other are coming out and saying they should be done in trade courts. Some say we don't need licenses, that we do good jobs, those MPs who passed professional exams in the '50s and '60s, that there's no need to renew knowledge, that they do great work, while others say they shouldn't take licenses if they're already won, whether they're in the ministry, whether they're in some government service, whether they're in some other bodies. They don't have a concept. They're fighting this law, they're criticizing it, and they don't have an alternative. They didn't agree with each other. Here's an example of this amendment. A state body is formed, and it should not have either the board of directors or the board of directors. Jobs should probably work for a porter, or who knows who. It is simply amazing that this number of amendments is invested on one draft law, and that MPs who invest these amendments, who oppose this law, do not have a single concept, have not agreed among themselves. In that sense, it shows how pointless all these criticisms are on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4869	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4870	If we had died yesterday, we wouldn't have found out one thing, which is that the state body should have a board of directors, a board of directors, and a board of directors. Since the state authorities are the ministry, I have not heard that there is a board of directors, a supervisory board and a director of the ministry. I haven't heard, but, look, we have a chance to hear something that makes sense, as we just found out. Now let's talk a little bit about nonsense. Article 8 of this bill regulates an area called the board of directors, saying the board of directors and four members, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for business affairs. Let's ignore the fact that we don't have a minister of economy, though, what kind of economy such as the minister, but experts on this branch of law regarding state authorities would have to know that the law never states who should propose to the government what it should do. It's an internal thing on the government's relation -- directly lower bodies under the government, but well, to ignore it. In view of Articles 5 and 6, where the most practically significant item in the establishment and operation of this agency is donations and sponsorship, it would not surprise me that, on the proposal of this future Economy Minister, the Government chooses members of the Management Board, for example, Bogoljub Karic, Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic or some of their authorised representatives. Why? Well, as much money as music. Why would someone give money to an agency if they didn't have an impact? How's it gonna have an impact? Well, through the agency's organs. What are those organs? You wrote - the board of directors, the board of directors and directors. And just now you're trying to convince us it's a state organ. That you said it was para-state, even if we understood, but the state was absolutely not. Next, in that expert list, read the whole law and you'll see, we don't really know what this board is doing. In addition to adopting the statutes, the financial plan, the final account, the report on business, the act on organisation and systematization and other general acts, we do not know what the main thing you swear, which is probably national standards for the management of bankruptcy. You haven't even prescribed who sets those standards. By some logic, it would be in the management board's jurisdiction. Or if you had the courage to write it -- the board of directors, whose head is the nominal owners of capital in Serbia, they bring national standards. Secondly, don't put too much trust in some of the standards that someone's suggesting to you on the side, that these are real standards. There's this country and bookkeeper and accountant, there's a lot of economists who know their jobs very well, know how to make balances, balance sheets, balance sheets. They know everything well enough to register, to make sure. Standards are needed. Standards exist in accounting. There are no new standards. And these stories of corporate accounting, etc. And it's just an ordinary fog. A few days ago, I told a story that you have an artist who's only registered in a court of law at the county court who's been arguing a dispute and determining the facts necessary for a court ruling, which exceeds the value of a company several times, so no license is required, nothing further is required. Do not lack arguments to go to nebuloses like the one you just saw – that the state body has a board of directors, a supervisory board and a director. If so, when we reach the final point of the agenda – the ministry law, we will see that you have not proposed either the board of directors, the board of directors or any inspection that would be controlled by the minister. It's probably because they haven't been examined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4871	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here, the word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4872	Ladies and gentlemen, those who support this law accuse us of not having a single concept. We have a unique concept and we advocate against the agencies that the state should pay, especially if the state is poor, such as Serbia is poor. And what we were proposing -- whether this job should be done by a minister, a ministry or some other state body, not by an agency, or a trade court, are proposals on how it can be done. I'm sure all these suggestions are better than the solutions you've offered, because if we look at Article 8 that says the board has a president and four members, then let's deal with science fiction or hypotheticals, whatever you want. If, for example, the Minister of Economy, who he will propose, was Aleksandar Vlahovic -- whom he would suggest. He would probably propose to the president Bogoljub Karic, because on each of those chains he shook in the election campaign, there is at least one link he made, forged, that the chain be assembled and that the gate be closed. They would probably be members – Janjusevic, Kolesar, Miodrag Kostic, MK Komertz and Filip Cepter, and as a proven bankruptcy manager, Vojislav Kostunica, who was the bankruptcy manager of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4873	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9 of the Law we're discussing today, we're talking about the Supervisory Board. It is said that the Supervisory Board consists of the president and two members, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for business affairs. As far as this is concerned, we have said enough in the principle debate, now I would only add that I remain in this position to delete Article 1, Article 9, as well as to delete an absolute Article 9. What's important is the second part that rules out what the Board's affairs are. Under point 1), it is said - overseeing the legality of the work of the Management Board and the Director. This is the basic and only function that the Supervisory Board will have. This second thing that's being talked about, and that's -- it's going through the final account, it's bringing the rules of procedure -- they're less important and less important things. When I talk about surveillance, I have to remind myself that the whole concept and the bankruptcy law and this law are based on surveillance. This is how: Article 12 of the bankruptcy act provides for the supervision of the work of the bankruptcy director to be carried out by a bankruptcy judge. Furthermore, when we talk about the agency's operations in Article 3(1), point 4) is said as follows - the agency is doing the following tasks, and it is listed: it is overseeing the work of the profession of the bankruptcy manager, and then I am talking about the next member, Article 12 of this proposal for the Agency's licensing agency of bankruptcy managers, where it is said - the ministry responsible for the business of the economy is carrying out surveillance tasks on the work of the agency. So we've established an entire one system, one chain of surveillance. What did we do this for? Therefore, if something is wrong, no one knows who will be guilty and no one can be held accountable. For these reasons, for practical reasons, there is no need for this Supervisory Board to exist, but in terms of the concept presented by the SRS, I suggest that an entire member be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to Article 10 that regulates the matter of the election, appointment and discharge of the director of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I suggested an amendment to delete this article on the 10th. The Serbian Radical Party is primarily against the establishment of agencies, and in the event of the establishment of a bankruptcy management agency, the possibility of forming a lobby of bankruptcy managers and the creation of a narrow circle of people who will conduct increasingly certain bankruptcys in almost all businesses in Serbia is opened. When's the agency director's appointment? The Director of the Agency shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, i.e. The Minister of Economy, who we don't have right now. What conditions should be met by the proposed director of the bankruptcy management agency? If we know that bankruptcy managers need to have high professional equipment, passed a professional exam, etc., a question is raised which is an expert, which are experts, whether this agency was formed precisely to bring Mr. Janjusevic to the head of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, because in the previous period he was a bankruptcy manager in over 20 enterprises and he gained extensive experience and could educate these bankruptcy managers. I think the aim of this law's promoter is exactly that. The question arises why this bill is wrong. For many reasons, and one of the main reasons is that the bill is also supported by the former economy and privatisation minister, to whom Serbian citizens have voted non-trust in the December elections. Why does this government do what it did and the previous government remains unclear, but it is quite clear that it will experience a similar or even worse fate than the previous government, to which citizens voted non-trust in the December elections. How much does this agency cost, how much do all these agencies cost, why don't these funds invest, why don't you invest in the economy, in the production, why do you make the big and complex bureaucratic apparatus even bigger and more complex? No investments, no development, no economy, no investments in production. Well, he can't, when you're just investing in the development of newly formed agencies. Does anyone even know how many of these agencies we have? What are the basic remarks of foreign and domestic investors? It's a type-of-the-mill, massive state apparatus that exhausts and rejects domestic and foreign investors. Your bunch of regulations and rules investors won't and won't study. A large number of agencies formed are only an additional burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget, and they make the expensive and massive state apparatus even more expensive and even more massive. Is that what we need? It's not. For this reason, I have tabled this amendment and I recommend that you accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4877	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11, which requires the removal of this member, for the reason that the SRS, as you have already heard, is in principle against the formation of agencies. If we were right here, the best thing that tells us is that the phones in the SRS parliamentary group have not stopped ringing in the last few days. Whether our amendments are pointless or not are citizens of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the Union, do not take that right for yourself. A lot of material really came into our parliamentary group, about all the privatisations, about all the bankruptcy you've done in the last few days. There are solutions made by Mr. Goran Kljajevic of the famous Kljajevic trial clan, who led the procedure against the company of the Robing Houses "Belgrade", but for a short period of time now I won't be able to pay any more attention to it. It's very important to mention Beko, once a strong firm. Here I received a report on the production and launch of quantities per aortaman from 1992 to 2001. This clearly shows that Beko, once a giant textile industry in Serbia, worked very well even during the bombing. Even during the bombing, gentlemen, export jobs didn't stop, they worked for Spanish partners and managed to make even foreign exchange revenues. For example, in May, they charged 146,078 German marks, charged 201,014,89 German marks in June. However, the DOS regime for many companies has proved to be more destructive here than the bombing itself. In 1999, only the Belgrade factory worked uninterruptedly and produced more than 150,000 clothing items. In 2000, the number of items increased and total "Beko" produced more than 430,000 clothing items, and more than 150,000 suits. It all went so well, gentlemen, until 2001. Even in early 2001, Beko worked pretty well. For the first four months of 2001, he achieved, only the Belgrade factory, income of 5.171,957 dinars. After that comes DOS regime, Goran Kljajevic comes, Mr Janjušević and the others come, and with them come bankruptcy. Today these production halls are closed, workers are on the street, business premises are inn. I would also give my contribution and tell Mr Aligrudic that he no longer prohibits the SRS MP from submitting amendments, because that, Mr Aligrudic, is our fundamental democratic right. Don't ask us, like the SPS, to submit amendments, to even ask for Article 1, to ask for an expropriation of this law, to go out for a pay phone, and to talk about how bad it is to form agencies, and then to vote for that law and for that agency. It is natural, I would say, that our right to submit amendments and defend them, as is natural and your right to want an opposition like the SPS, as it is natural for Javier Solana to want a president like Boris Tadic. Gentlemen, there's nothing more natural than that. It's just that everyone's looking for the one that's the easiest to deal with. It is clear why the DSS chose the SPS as a partner and why Javier Solana chose Boris Tadic exactly. (President: Time, Mr. Sarovic. ) How seriously you gentlemen take this debate today's best words and the fact that out of 170 MPs, how many MPs support this law, there are no more than 50 to 60 of you presently in the hall. I would ask the chairman to, in accordance with Article 82(2). Rules of Procedure, establish a quorum for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4879	Mr. Aligrudic, replica. Whoever calls the Rules of Procedure, I warned yesterday that the Rules of Procedure are the same for all, can be called to the right member and, of course, we have proved that a hundred times, will have the right to a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 82, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 allow the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group to request a check of the quorum. I've never avoided that, but I ask the MPs not to be falsely represented. We all know the names of the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parties. Mr. Aligruditch, you asked for a replica, but I ask your presence. Here you go. As I said, the Rules of Procedure are the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4880	We did not invite and choose our political partners, but we agreed to work in this Serbian Parliament in such a way as to try to build the institutions of the system. All those who wish to participate in this work and who have shown good faith since the first day of the session of this assembly of parliament are welcome in the job. Of course, we also invite the SRS to join in. It will be an opportunity when we discuss the adoption of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So much for who's calling for co-operation and who needs who. We all need you here, we need each other in one big job in Serbia. Anyone who wants to participate is welcome. It's something we can talk about anytime. As for the right of the Messengers, who defends you? You go out with whatever you want and whatever you want, we've been saying it from the start, not because I'm letting you do it, I'm just saying it rhetorically. You certainly have the right to everything you have said here, but I warned you then, and I warn you now, that this debate is being watched and that from these discussions and these replicas that I am giving you will be very clear what you are doing and what function are the amendments you are proposing. That's what's important to say. They're not in the function of correcting the text of the law, and that's more than obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4881	National MP Zarko Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4882	I'm reporting on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that my colleague Sarovic, who either doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand, explains some things. First, regarding our amendments: we have submitted three amendments to this bill. Yesterday, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I made it very clear what I thought about it and asked the competent minister (in charge of this matter) to explain to Serbia why some solutions are better than others and I explained what our position is about and why we think it would be better to do this job the way we propose. Mr. Sarovic, we didn't engage in empty rhetoric and demagogues, which you keep doing these days, to just hold the speaker's story for the sake of it, because it's obviously more important to you to tell an empty story than to tell what's the point. Please leave us alone. There's one more thing you should know. When you look at the contents of what you've been saying all this time, it's one empty story without any valid argument. But what you're going to do is, it's the philosophy of your party and it's your right. Let the citizens of Serbia answer that question. As for the other, let me tell you that we are not ashamed of any of our political moves, and the essence of that was to support our party's formation of a three-way government. Believe it or not, we prefer the open support of this three-way government, rather than the secret co-operation with the Democrats, which you had in the previous period. We are not ashamed of supporting the government of Mr. Kostunica and thus creating conditions for a disastrous government to go into political history. We are not ashamed of what we are talking about and what we want to make our contribution to Serbia's functioning. We will never do as you do: like, you are disgusted by the situation in Kosovo, God forbid, nothing good, the Kumanian Agreement, etc., and then you vote for that shameful declaration that the previous Government and the previous Assembly have proposed here. We can't do that, Mr. Sarovic. We say it loud and clear - we are behind it and we support it and we are not making political deals in silence and we are showing ourselves as great revolutionaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4883	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4884	How you, Mr. Obradovic, did and what you did best to the people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4885	Call a member and get started.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4886	Mr. Markovic, I've already explained to you. The MP comes out to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4887	Mr. Sarovic, once again, I'm asking you, I'm trying to be correct with everyone, because it's in the common interest. Be kind, call a member. In case you spend time quoting it, as the Rules of Procedure provides, that time will be calculated for you, but I ask you to call on a member, and I ask all MPs not to receive and that, in accordance with Rule 99, paragraphs 1 and 2, enables the speaker to address.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4888	Mr. President, neither the other MPs nor you have the right to interrupt me during the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4889	Mr. Sarovic, I had to turn off your microphone again. I warn you also for the third time, the 99th member of the Parliament, who I quoted to you, the sole chairman, or President of the Assembly, has the right to interrupt you, and the other MPs do not have, and I had to warn them just seconds ago not to do so, and I also warned you twice to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure and to contact the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4890	Mr. Markovic, then read that article to the end. He says no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, but in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. This case is not intended for the Rules of Procedure. Article 96(4) states that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. Mr. Markovic, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it said that I am obliged in the first sentence of my presentation to say which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated. That depends on my style. I can do it at the beginning of my exposure, in the middle or in the end. It is my right, and it is your duty to listen to me. A member of Article 100(2) has been injured who says that MPs are obliged to address others with respect. Namely, Mr. Obradovic, how you and your party worked best knows Serbia's citizens and they have assessed your work, both in these last elections and in the previous one. You don't have to worry about what I understand, what I don't understand, or what you understand, or what I care about. It's important for me to be understood by the citizens, and you're better at worrying about how citizens don't understand you and thinking about how you're going to cross the census next time, not what I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4891	The MPs are obliged to honor the Parliament's dignity. That applies to these reactions as well. Be kind, there's no reason for such reactions. Mr. Sarovic very neatly addressed the Rules of Procedure and gave his position. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, about the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4892	Half an hour ago, we heard that in the future reorganisation of the state administration of the ministry, boards of directors, directors, and we're trying to convince you that this quasi-state body, as you imagine it, is not even like what you think it should be. Of course, the statute provision and what should be contained in the statute should not exist in this law, as this law should not be passed, and there is nothing wrong. The SRS exhibits its principled position, explains. The reasons for this amendment are set out in the reasons for the previous amendments, and it is perfectly normal that if the removal of Articles 1 to 10 is proposed, there should be no Article 11. There is nothing wrong with it, as Mr. Sarovic pointed out that there is one different approach when it comes to this law. Some support him, with 15 members and a title, and some feel that the law is not bad only should three members be expelled. It is the legitimate right of everyone in the National Assembly. The fact that eradicating three members really doesn't make any sense, or celery, is the problem of the one who advocates this kind of grooming of this bill that is impossible to prepare. There's no problem with anyone supporting this government, it's his right. We'll see what the results of this government will be, so they'll probably be responsible for all those who have raised their hands for this government and supported everything the government has proposed, and what has passed with a majority in the Assembly. There's no need for anyone to get angry, it's all part of this democracy. The minority government is supported at the republic and federal level, although some are disgusted that support is coming from that side, but it is again the choice of those who support it. Without the intention of sharing MPs in this assembly, I invite all MPs to reconsider. Be assured that if you adopt this bill, the chosen people will write, they will find cover in the parallel practice of some of our close and distant states, but know, only in the mousefish is free of cheese. Take advantage of the opportunity not to fall into the mouse trap, because those who are the victims of that mousefish are in the last rows. I warned you earlier, they came up with a bill, you ran into someone else, and you represent them as your own. They rub their hands, they come in, they come out, they rejoice. You deny yourself because you used to criticize them, and among other things for this. They call you rightly, so they say, that you criticized us when you were in the same positions, so that we support both of them. You're both right, you know best who you are and what you are, best you can describe yourself, just reminding you that's what we keep talking about you. There's nothing about us that's changed. Something's changed with you. Hurry up, after all, we're late for Europe. Just so you know, it's coming to Europe through the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4893	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 12th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milomir Minić and Zarko Obradović and MP Dragoljub Stamenković. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Stamenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4894	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our next view is that we are against agencies mass forming in Serbia, with this amendment to Article 12, we are asking that Article 12 be deleted. It's not clear to me that you're still trying to get the agencies to take over those jobs that are supposed to be done by the government or by other authorities. We are afraid that this opens up the possibility of forming a lobby of bankruptcy managers and creating a narrow circle of people to conduct increasingly certain bankruptcys in Serbia. But something else for me, Mr. Minister, is not clear. You remember that pre-election campaign, that politician who promised no more chains, the katans, he also supported Tadic, and you all supported him together and no more bankruptcy. We expected, something would start working in Serbia, new jobs, new work organisations, and you're just bankrupting. The previous government at least made for the development of economy and entrepreneurship, and largely discussed bankruptcy. Finally, as for the support of the SPS, which is proud of the open support of this government, my lords, that is exactly the same support as when Jelisavet Karadjordjevic, the same number and percentage of votes you have in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4895	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4896	It's a situation in life when someone is made to be bigger than they are, when they get the form of an inflatable balloon that can burst into one simple pressure, then think of yourself as the best. Don't lie to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Tell me how you got the opportunity to be on the media, both on RTS, on Pink, on BK TV and on all media that form Serbia's objective electoral body. We were in this election by percentage of representation, our candidate for president of the Republic of Serbia was the eighth, unlike the allegedly famous opposition that is first or second in all media. (President: Excuse me, please, Mr. Radovic, do you by amendment or...? ( b) Replica. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Therefore, do not be afraid for our future. You're taking care of yourself. Think where you are, what you are, what you did yesterday so we can do tomorrow. When you were with us, you didn't mind that cooperation or support. Now you've found new partners. You work with them, but let us do as we think and do not underestimate others. Don't be so confident, from choice to choice, from partner to partner, from one support to another. The point is whether you contribute to something called building a Republic of Serbia and a better life for citizens. The way you work, what you say, you absolutely do everything the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4897	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4898	I don't know what to do with this Mr. Obradovic. It's like someone stabbed you with a needle. What's this about? Did I suggest that you not highlight the candidate for President of the Republic? Did I say you were going to fail clean? Is it my fault you're running for eighth? What did we get the right to be in the media? Well, I was in the second round. Was it supposed to be in the second round to talk about the SPS? Or about the candidate of this entire assembly and the candidate of the SRS? And when we cooperated with the SPS, you were in diapers. What do you know about it? Did I bring out Slobodan Milosevic when these guys were after him to arrest him or you? Did I say we should get rid of Slobodan Milosevic or you? Do I not listen to what Slobodan Milosevic is saying today or do you? And you want his name on the postmark. It's not worth it. You're looking for yourself. Find your identity somewhere, I don't bother you at all. I didn't take your voters. I have those who vote for the SRS, and in the presidential elections, those who are patriots. Let's count how many, that's ours. It's not much, it's ours, and now what makes you think that you're conflicting with the U.S.S.S. (Zarko Obradovica, from the place: So Sarovic started. Well, because you're not good, but you keep quiet when he starts. Sarovic is right, you are not good, but you have no right to say anything to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4899	Mr. Nikolic, once again, I warn you, according to Article 97, that you do not take offense to the MPs. Be kind, continue with the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4900	And when did Mr. Obradovic say we were lying? Wasn't that an insult to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4901	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4902	And why don't they warn him?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4903	I interrupted it, if you noticed, you were present and we cleared up without a microphone. Be nice and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4904	I'm done. I'm sorry that the SPS is gone and I've been saying that for three years. I'm sorry that the SPS is gone. Others get in your place, not us, and you think a little bit about what a blow you made to your party when you voted for this government. I mean mortal. I don't care which of the SPS MPs will vote here. You're not the ones running your own game anymore. Your party is led by Vojislav Kostunica and led by Labus and Dinkic and led by Hamovic, Lazarevic and Solana.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4905	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4906	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4907	There's no replica on the replica. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4908	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Nikolic definitely misread my presentation. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, let me tell you a few words, and then you call back later. Our candidate wasn't the eighth, he was the fifth. When we talk about the relationship of the media to our candidate, we're not talking about the second round, we're talking about how the campaign started. It came from one wrong assessment that three candidates were favored, i.e. they had an advantage over the others. That's what the media has been doing. The fourth one made up for it with his money and his television. These are facts that cannot be ignored. The only question is, how did you happen to get all the TV in October? You avoided answering that question compared to what I said. Secondly, you leave our relationship with President Milosevic to us and leave the man alone, both us and our party and our relationship with him. When we called you on March 31st to leave the Assembly, to come out together to oppose his kidnapping, you said, "No, it's your job, we've got a lot of work to do, we want to work in the Assembly; so you worked until midnight, and then for the glory you interrupted the work. And in these elections, you didn't mind calling him to get a voter's body. That's the facts. The time of our co-operation is our common cause. We're not ashamed of it. You think about why you keep trying to talk affirmatively when it comes to you and negatively when it comes to us. That's what it says about the morale of the partner we were with.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4909	Replica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4910	First of all, it wasn't the wrong premise that I would have the most votes in the first round of presidential elections. And that was the premise. [[But you lost in the second round.]] And that wasn't wrong, but, cirkovic, on my fingers if I went in the second round, if you were an opponent, I'd win. It wouldn't help the whole world to back you up. It wouldn't do you any good. I would ask you not to count Tadic's victory on your own, because that's almost impossible. But let's get this straight with the SPS. I don't mean to offend you at all, I don't mean anything by the SPS, I think badly of some individuals. To this day, Mr. Beard, I haven't thought ill of you. Now I think you too are the evil of the SPS, that you have joined those who have long been the evil of the SPS. I am proud of our participation in the government, even though it cost us a terrible defeat in 2000 in the election. You didn't. If you didn't want to steal the election in 2000, maybe your candidate would have won the second round. But you're used to stealing choices. While you were stealing radicals, your head hair wasn't missing. Come on, come out here for a pay phone because you're so smart and so beautiful and you look like a socialist. While you were stealing our votes in Kosovo and Metohija, and we were losing Kosovo and Metohija, you had the support of the entire opposition, today's government, you had the support of Europe and America. When you wanted to steal the election from them, Serbia got it by the head. I'm not sorry for you, I'm not sorry for us, either, that we won only 300,000 votes then. In life for what you do, you have to bear the consequences. I feel sorry for Serbia. October 5th brought these to power, and you were better by October 5th than those who came on October 5th. You have many more men who could exercise good authority, but you will never exercise power again. You will be the waterman of someone who exercises power. I promise you now, if you really think this is how your Mr. Obradovic stands out, don't ever count on co-operation with the SRS again. Or we will cooperate with you as much as we are with Democratic in this election, for which you accuse us. We've been working too hard. Yes, it is. I went to the rallys of Boris Tadic, not Vojislav Kostunica, I went, and not Velja and Vuk, I was saying – if Tomislav Nikolic wins there will be war and disaster, and you didn't all say it. I told the minorities – one sandwich for the Hungarians, two for the Slovaks, if Tomislav Nikolic wins, and you didn't say it. (President: Time. I've been saying it all wrong. Now meet where you are. I didn't steal anything; neither did this election, thanks to you, I couldn't win, but now you're pulling chestnuts out of the fire. If I had won, I know what would happen in Serbia and privatisation, and with the generals, with the social programme and with the mayor's election and the president of the municipality, and you don't know what's going to happen. You don't know anything about what's gonna happen. You don't know where the generals are. Ask me, I know where they are. Once again, time. I know where the generals you're chasing are, but they don't deserve so many honest people to be arrested and extradited to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4911	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4912	Mr. Nikolic, I assume you're an honorable man, or at least you often convince us of that. Now act like an honorable man. You promised that if you lost the election, you would withdraw from politics. You didn't keep your word. It's binding. You run for third time and experience fiasco every time. Stay out of politics, go back to your old trade, go back to the work you have to do. It is amazing that you cannot understand that you are the past for Serbia. You don't exist. You had the results, but you went through in the first round, but you didn't win. You've been losing for the third time. Therefore, you have no reason to run anymore. The outcome is known. You will experience a complete fiasco, both you and your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4913	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4914	You do not respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I never said I'd be out of politics if I didn't get elected. I said, if I don't have the most votes in the first round, I'm going to be out of politics. Read the paper, watch TV. This fiasco you'd like to experience every year, which I'm experiencing. Let me remind you, your president was my opponent in one of my fiasco choices. How many votes does he win? What's his percentage of who you are? I'm not saying that I may not be Serbia's future either, but, Mr. Cirkovic, you are neither the past nor the present nor the future, and that sometimes you are not able to go out for a pay phone, no one would know that you are a national MP. You just don't exist. There is a saying in our people, which is kind to Grandma, and that is what came to her. The only applause you ever had in this room was when you asked me to go to politics and applaud your DSS and G17 plus. It would suit them, and I'm not going to give them that satisfaction yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4915	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4916	Thank you. I would like to say something on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Nikolic and what he said about the SPS. Let me remind you, Mr. Nikolic, when it comes to honesty, relationships, co-operation with us, your first party is October 5th... (President: Excuse me, are you referring to article 97 or someone else? - Yes, to 97. Let me remind you, Mr. Nikolic, you first went out on October 5th and announced the defeat of Mr. Milosevic. First you published it, and then we found out here in the Assembly, about the debate about one insignificant law, that accidentally that day at the SRS election headquarters, they were the leaders of the DS to get acquainted with the results, by chance. It's probably a fantastic degree of coincidence. Secondly, whether we believed or not, there was more cooperation with you, even though we never spoke publicly, but vice versa. We've had more cooperation with you, but, well, we thought, you're what you are, that the state's reasons are primary, and obviously there's your interest in being in that common story. Third, if what you claim happened in Kosovo and Metohija in 1996, about stealing elections and so on, if that's true, then why did you accept to be in government with us? What are these motives, if we're so bad, that you accept to be in government with us? Fourth, believe me, I carry my own cross. I don't care about being like you. I prefer to be in the company of my friends who will autonomously establish party policy, rather than play according to the demands of others, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4917	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4918	Dear People's MPs, I have the right to defend the amendment to Article 13. The reason for proposing to delete Article 13 is principled, which the SRS also presented in the principle debate, and also in the course of the investment of all amendments, that this agency is unnecessary, unnecessarily and harmful. Looking at Article 13, which has been regulated that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will appoint the President and members of the Management Board, Director, President and members of the Supervisory Board within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law (the law will enter into force, if adopted by most MPs, eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger), the question arises – who will propose to the Government, when there is no competent minister for business affairs, president and members of the Management and Supervisory Board and the Director of the Agency? Looking at this law, in fact, the solution was that this law was not passed at all, and if there was a need to specify some provisions on the bankruptcy manager, it would be introduced into the bankruptcy law. It seems that the problems in the country are considered resolved by the adoption of a large number of laws and are often spoken here – the law is placed in place and established by the institutions of the Serbian state. Law-making does not establish institutions. Law-making is not a functioning state, or there is no rule of law. The rule of law is the application of laws and the number of certain procedures, according to the law, and those solutions or decisions made to be implemented in action. An additional reason, and I have a personal one, when it comes to bankruptcy law and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers: I am one of eight and a few thousand workers of four banks who have been pushed into bankruptcy by Labus, Dinkic, Djelic and others. This was accepted by Labus and Dinkic during negotiations in Paris with the so-called The Paris Club, that these four banks are liquidated overnight, along with an alleged programme on the recovery of these banks in six months, which is not a programme, and overnight, after the New Year's Eve, in fact on January 3, 2002, the decision on the bankruptcy of these four large banks is announced. With the bankruptcy of these four large banks, conditions were created for the collapse of Serbia's economy, as 80% of Serbia's economy was, and others are the commies of the four large banks. In order to achieve the next move, she implemented the so-called. Privatisation, or robbery of Serbia's economy, had to collapse these four large banks. That's when Serbia's economy ran out of support, no major banks, and their place was the mafia banks. I have to tell you that what we have in the King, and we have apparently 28 business units or exposures from some banks, is bad, and what little business there is left in the King, or those who run it know what these business units and exposures can get and what kind of support, how many loans and how many guarantees. Basically, the King's economy has nothing to do with these banks. What's up, King? There is, if some money is collected, that money should be sent to downtown Belgrade, and from Belgrade, over so-called. European banks, which only have a European name, to get that money out of Serbia and that's how things are going. The bankruptcy of these four banks, headed to Belgrade's Trade Court, lasts almost three years. She hasn't moved away from the beginning. What's done? It was done that the first acquired movable property in these banks, huge movable assets, techniques, furniture, until carjacking (one of the cars was bought by a former minister, who is now sitting here as an MP), and left to seize huge immovable property, a huge business space in Serbia's largest city centers. Now, that's the goal, but unfortunately, that bankruptcy is run by the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Bank Banks, or by the bankruptcy manager of these four banks. It's the work of Labus and Dinkic and that agency was under their patronage, and today it is. Will these bankruptcy managers have the same license? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4919	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4920	Of course, we are also asking this amendment to delete Article 14. The bill, because the whole law is pointless, unnecessary, but I'm going to take the opportunity to take down those masks a little more, to see what's behind the concept of bankruptcy legislation. In Article 14, you state that the Management Board is obliged to adopt statutes within 15 days of the date of appointment. If the deadlines set out in the bill are followed, then it would be about 60 days before the statutes are passed. The statute of the agency which you yourself claim to be the primary objective of establishing the agency is to promote and improve the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Well, then you're sorting out some other goals, but it's the basic goal of the promotion. Well, you could have done the promotion through billboards, through newspapers, and you could have read in the paper today and how one bankruptcy manager in Gornji Milanovac went. There are a lot of such bankruptcy managers. How can you do this when you don't have an official proposal, you don't have a minister for business. You'll probably get over that shortfall somehow, so he's being replaced by a deputy in front of the government, but if it's taken into account that you're pretty much in a fight within this unique coalition, don't make us keep you still. We don't want to calm you down here. We don't want this agency to live. At the end of the debate on this bankruptcy legislation, in order not to abuse the media, as some have just tried to abuse this pay phone, arguing that by submitting these amendments, we are protecting the current situation, I must tell you that the SRS is not protecting the existing situation. It expresses dissatisfaction with how some bankruptcy managers and some courts work, and argues that behind that or in front of these bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges, the interests of those whose representatives will be members of the board of directors and supervisors of these agencies. The Serbian Radical Party warns you -- this media campaign has made an impression on Serbian citizens that the adoption of these two laws solves the problems so-called. social enterprises, large social enterprises. You do not solve the problem with these laws because you do not yet have a vision that the agency will perform the function of the bankruptcy manager when it comes to bankruptcy proceedings against social enterprises that are not privatised. You are offering a perverse promise to the citizens that they hope that whoever is not for these laws is for the existing state, and in these laws a timing for the existing state has been incorporated. These licensed bankruptcy managers, under your bankruptcy law, are overly envisaged for that private part of the economy, i.e. those legal persons whose property structure is clearly defined. We warned you, you'd better have the existing law as much as you've redecorated, you might have inserted the reorganisation provisions, because between your reorganisation provisions in the course of bankruptcy and the effective application of the law of undefined working bankruptcy, you're essentially in the same positions. This privatisation phase you are conducting, which you are pompously announcing, which you are presenting as being based on expertise, believe me, will be the hardest and most painful for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Be careful, every wrong move here has inconceivable consequences, and the consequences of these first two laws cannot correct the 3rd point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4921	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. No quorum. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4922	We've been working all day without a quorum, or at least two hours at a bar, so let's just end this agenda point that way. We've reached a member of the 15th Law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers. That Article 15 says - this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Why did we propose to delete this member? Because we assumed that you would not accept amendments to the previous 14 members, so we thought that if you accepted the amendment to this article, if you delete Article 15 of this law, then this law would never be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and that way we will save this little remaining economy in Serbia which is still being saved. I would say something that has been interesting to me since the beginning, the government has given an opinion on all the proposed amendments, and the amendment to Article 1 submitted by the SPS MPs and the SRS MP are exactly the same. Both say, "Article 1 is deleted." What does the government say? In one way, it explains the refusal of amendments to the SRS MPs, and in another it explains the refusal of amendments to the SPS MPs. I do wonder that this has nothing to do with some secret talks and secret agreements that have so much to do with some secret talks on some cannabete between Djindjic and Milosevic. When the amendment submitted by the MP of the SRS, you know, the arguments are the same on all amendments, quite logically, because they are all amendments to the same text. Then, in one part of it, the government is now talking about an amendment to the SRS -- the purpose of the establishment and operation of the agency is precisely in establishing and maintaining high professional standards in line with European and international legislation, and this has made the implementation of bankruptcy significantly difficult in the current regulation and practice. This is simply not true, and I am sure that the government's representative is aware of it and probably for this reason does not talk about these amendments, but is an even more interesting explanation given by the government when it comes to the SPS amendments. Among other things, the government said -- also, the establishment of the agency provides an effective mechanism to prevent lobbying of bankruptcy managers or any other privileged group. The Agency's business in accordance with the Agency's draft law, as well as the draft bankruptcy law, will prevent abuses and manipulations, as well as the privilege of individuals and interest groups. This is also absolutely not true. On the contrary, the adoption of this law produces anything contrary to what the government has given in the light of the SPS amendment. They may have believed the government's argument, so they gave up explaining their amendments, but we in the SRS know that the government is not telling the truth, we know that this is not true, we know that the government deceives Serbian citizens, that it does not work in the interests of Serbian citizens, we know that this is a very bad government. For this reason, we insist to the end on the reasoning of our amendments, and the right explanation followed by all our amendments and the essence is that we are asking that this law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers is not adopted and the reasoning of Article 15, which reads: The Serbian Radical Party is in principle against the establishment of agencies, and in the event of the establishment of a bankruptcy agency, the possibility of forming a lobby of bankruptcy managers and creating a narrow circle of people who would conduct more and more certain bankruptcys in almost all businesses in Serbia is opened. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only truth and the only truth is that one day when you have a quorum, since you don't have it all day, you're going to adopt this law and you're going to drive hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens out into the street and it's not going to help us with the law that's coming on the agenda of today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4923	Thank you. If someone wants to go out and ask for a quorum, this is not how it's admitted from the scene. You didn't ask, if you asked, you'd say you were looking for a quorum. If no one wants to talk about this amendment, we've completed a review of the bill in particular. Does Prime Minister Zoran Stojkovic want to give the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4924	Dear ladies and gentlemen, after a few days, here's the debate on this bankruptcy law and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I want to express my satisfaction that we did one job. This law regulates one segment of importance for the previous law, the bankruptcy law. When they look at each other in general, I think they get what they want with both laws, one valid, valid procedure that needs to be conducted in courts, in those organisations where the problems that cause bankruptcy occur. I think that this way will protect not only the property of the debtors, which has been simply destroyed and later sold into depravity, but also the interests of the trustees, and of the rich and the workers, where work organisations are reorganised. In this situation, this law is also very significant because it regulates an important segment. We all need to know that one of the biggest problems we've had so far, in addition to such poor work by the court, are the bankruptcy directors. To remove this, it is important to pass this law. I know that there have been conflicting opinions here that, simply, the law should not be passed. However, there are enough reasons, and we gave them, why this law should be passed. I'm saying, they really regulate one segment of this previous bankruptcy bill, but it's very important. The second point was that he wasn't needed. I think it's also necessary; given what's been going on so far with the bankruptcy managers, not that it's necessary, it's necessary. For these reasons, I hope that most will vote and adopt this law, as well as the previous one, and we will finally get that valid continent to conduct bankruptcy over debtors. There was a rumor that by adopting these laws, there would be layoffs. Not because of the law, but because of the difficult situation that the economy has been brought into, throughout the years. On the contrary, this law tries to implement the bankruptcy procedure properly, to protect property and partly the interests of workers, and thus to do that valid job, to preserve what can still be preserved in our economy. Also, I want to point out one thing, that one of the previous speakers somewhat ironically told me that the laws would not solve the problem of the Serbian economy, but rather the implementation. I'm sure it's important to enforce the law, but obviously it's forgotten - that you might be able to implement something, you have to bring it in. If you want to enforce the law, you'll have to bring it in first. For these reasons, and I suggest that we pass these laws, because it is indeed a shift in one important area for our country, and then we will discuss application and see that it is as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4925	Since we've completed the search, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Before we move to the third item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that on behalf of the SPS, the proposing for the third item of the agenda is the National MP Rajko Baralic, and for the DS is MP Leila Ruždic - Trifunović. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Security Act for the Social Security of Citizens You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Milan Janković and Rajko Baralić; Branislav Blažić; Milorad Mirčić; Rajko Baralić; Miljko Četrović; Goran Cvetanovic; Vojislav Milajić; Dragoljub Stamenković; Milan Stevović; Dragan Čolić; Zoran Krasic; Nemanja Sarović; Milovanovic; Natasa Jovanovic; Igor Mirović; Ljubomir Kragović and Vjerica Radeta. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4926	Please, since it is clear that the quorum is not even in attendance, and I see that the representatives of the majority agree with it, that you just count, look at and give a break until 15.00 hours, and by 15.00 hours, the representatives of the majority will also gather. There's no problem at all with anything. I think it's rational, and I can see that that's what your party's representatives did. Please determine that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4927	Mr. Wolfie, as I understand it, you're asking for the quorum to be established. Please call the MPs from the hall, in 15 seconds we will determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. Since we've established that we have a quorum, Mr. Minister, here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4928	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I'd like to ask your attention, since I'm going to be brief, I won't bother you. I'm pleased to introduce you to the amendments to the amendments to the Law on Social Protection. I'm really going to do it in a telegraph way. The first and basic idea of adopting this law is to equalise the level of social protection for all citizens of Serbia, regardless of where they live. According to current solutions, the level of social protection of Serbian citizens depends directly on where they live, so the relationship is currently 1:5 in Serbia. If you're lucky to live somewhere where there's a high average profit in the municipality, then you have a proper level of social protection. If you live in a poor municipality, then you are double punished: in addition to living in that poor municipality, and the level of social protection is far lower than in those municipalities where the standard is better. So the basic idea of this law is equalising the level of social protection for all citizens of Serbia, no matter where they live. This was achieved in this proposal by proposing that the basis for determining the right at the level of social protection be the average profit in the Republic of Serbia. At this point, it is the average profit in the municipality, or city. By establishing the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, in addition to achieving a single level of earnings, the real consequence is actually the improvement of the social situation in 122 municipalities in Serbia. Why is there an improvement in the material position of those who exercise social rights? Because in Serbia in 122 municipalities, the average profit is lower than the average republican earnings, so by defining this base we raise the level of social rights in 122 municipalities in Serbia. Besides, we're covering 13,000 more families in this social security system. So that's the first and primary goal of passing this law. Compared to the average earnings in the Republic, the level of social protection is now determined, depending on the number of family members; from the individual, where the level is 16% to the multi-member family, where the level is 32% of the average earnings in the Republic. So that's the central issue of the internal thing that we want to change with this law and improve the position of those persons in Serbia who have the right to achieve social protection. Another important goal, when it comes to this law, is to improve the situation of the most difficult people with disabilities in Serbia. That's the second target group. We predict in this law that the addition to other people's care and assistance is increasing almost double, so there is a significant improvement in the position of about 24,000 of Serbia's most difficult disabled. It's another important thing when I'm talking about this law. The third important thing in this law is the solution to which we foresee a certain cash compensation, at 20% of the average income, for fosterers, or foster families, and yet they are granted the right to an insurance internship. Practically, this legal solution is what we want to further encourage the development of foster care in Serbia as one of the essential institutes. I must say, in this regard, that we as a ministry and without amending this law are working to expand the foster care in Serbia and that we have achieved results that are even better, surprisingly good, compared to the surrounding countries, according to all the talks we have had with the international organisations that we have talked to. If we already have such a situation, with these additional changes, or additional solutions in this law, we will certainly create even better conditions for fostering Serbia to gain importance and to expand more. Why is that significant besides everything else? You know, unfortunately, how many children in Serbia are in such a position and how many children are actually often fostered is the only way to grow up normally. That's why I think this institute is very important and this solution in law. The next thing you know, when I'm talking about this law, there's an announced decentralisation that this law provides. Since 2005, the founders of social work centres, or these institutions, will be municipalities and cities, not more republics, as is the case now. Simply, this decentralisation is in line with Serbia's overall political commitment to the process of decentralisation. The next thing you know, when I'm talking about this law, and it's part of the set of measures we're predicting, it's essentially raising the level of service standards in social protection institutions. What exactly do we want to accomplish? In the first place, we must have proper control. This law first introduces an inspection service within the Ministry that will actually carry out inspection checks on the work of social protection institutions. We haven't had that before, and I think it's very important. The second element, when I talk about inspection, control and supervision, is the authority established by this law that the ministry gives consent to the statutes and the act on the systematicisation of relevant social protection institutions. It's a kind of surveillance. It is possible for them to do it themselves, prepare, but the state must have control, the last word is whether what is in the statute, in the act of systemization, is good. The second important thing, when we talk about this, is that for the first time, one who comes to the director of the relevant social institution will have to bring and propose his work programme. We're simply treating this social work center as another company or company. Whoever comes to the director's post must have a clear vision and a picture of what he really wants to do here, what he wants to advance, and not just to set himself up, I don't know why, but because he has ideas to do something about it. That's why I think it's very important that part of the law where we put the position of the director in a different way, in terms of more of the requirements expected of that man who wants to be the director. The next thing you know in this law is the introduction, for the first time, of one institution as an institution that needs to deal with professional work, with total supervision in this area. It should simply be a centre that will deal in a professional way with social protection problems and make proposals for certain improvements and for everything that needs to be done in the sector and in this area. And what's also important when we talk about this is that for the first time we're introducing something called giving us the opportunity to define what we're talking about. higher quality services in our institutions, which would be paid in particular, in fact, would only be paid by the users. So since we normally have enough capacity, we want to offer a higher level of service for certain categories of residents who can pay for it. We simply say – you have these terms, but you have to pay for it and what is paid goes into the function of what I was talking about, the further development of these services. This is seven-eight key things when it comes to this law that we propose to the Assembly to pass. What I'd still like to say in the end, so I don't bother you, is the second dimension of this law. I think it is as important as all this solution, and this second dimension of this law is actually the fact that in a transitional period - and I expect and hope that Serbia will enter into the reform process much more decisively and courageously, into transition changes, because I don't think there is an alternative - the social security law, this one I'm talking about, the level of protection it provides, is the last point of resistance, in my opinion, for the citizens of Serbia. That's why it's the target subject family. This is essentially solidarity law, and I think there are two things in Serbia that are important. One is economic development, the other is solidarity. I don't think one can go without the other, and that's why I suggest that the MPs adopt this bill. His application would begin on September 1st. Now is the time to adopt it and give it a chance to improve the material position of the most vulnerable in Serbia and to create a clear system in which, if, if God so, Serbia progresses, we can even increase that level of protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4929	Since it's close to 1400 hours, I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Since we have a quorum we continue to work. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: You have not established the quorum. ) The sign gave the electronic system that we have a quorum and if you have an objection, the authorised representative or group president may come out and, if he suspects the quorum, ask for a quorum to be determined. Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4931	Ladies and gentlemen, I object here to the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I can't imagine you, Mr. Vice President, running a National Assembly session in a sports T-shirt. If you don't care what you look like, I do what the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia looks like on this transmission. I would ask you to put yourself in a state where you should be in order to hold a session of the National Assembly. This isn't a football game. This isn't a harmless trip. There are very important laws being passed here. Here you warn us when we say one bad word, when we hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way, and I beg you, that I would really feel like someone who is a member of the People's Parliament, that you, too, who runs the session, at least try to look like a man who claims to be a people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4932	Thank you. Here's a word from the People's Messenger of Life-dark Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4933	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, at the very beginning I would agree with one of the findings made by Mr. Minister in the opening statement that for all countries in transition, the most important thing to do is to work on economic development, and the other, of course, is to show our solidarity in action, which is what the amendment and addition of this law should do. For me, there is one economic development, our country's economy, but unfortunately in the last three and a half years, it may have been pronounced, but indeed the citizens of Serbia have not felt it yet. Whenever we speak and discuss in this House, we are talking about new funds that will impose on the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is a question of whether they will have the strength to round up everything that we offer here in parliament. One more thing, I would really ask all fellow MPs, belonging to the position or opposition, to work together to improve all legal projects, because, believe me, Serbian citizens are interested in what the National Ambassador is doing in the Serbian Parliament and does not care if he is a member of the position or opposition and does not understand how much he is and whose responsibility and power he is in this House. The proposal to amend and supplement the Social Protection Act is certainly a project for which all of us Members of the SPS are keenly interested in being done as correctly as possible, because we, in the basic principle of our party programme, have a social programme. Of course, the biggest responsibility for all of this is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Resort, which offers one such law. Of course, the government has the greatest responsibility of how capable and responsible it will be for one such law to be brought to life and that at least one category of population in the Republic of Serbia will be satisfied, i.e. to make it as easier to live. There are changes and additions that we can, of course, start and comment on, but first I'd like to say something. Whenever some elections come or go, there are always some new people who make up power to think that they are being started by the state of Serbia and that they are being started by one of Serbia's legal regulators. Of course it's not like that. This was shown in 2001 when this bill made one great injustice against all people in a state of social need, and why? First of all, the change was very radical, in the sense that the right to social protection was obtained by all citizens, but compared to the average of the municipality where they live and thus damaged Serbian citizens, a total of 122 municipalities, and that range was 1:5. The first correction I welcome is the one that is defined in Article 4 of this bill, which is that more equal distribution is being carried out, i.e. that all citizens of Serbia who are in a state of social need have social protection at the level of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Is that the happiest solution and how much that will satisfy the population, I'm not sure, because it says here in Article 4 that the individual will be 16% of the average wage for the employees of 12,600 dinars today, which is only 2,016 dinars; then families with two members – 22%, i.e. 2,772 dinars; family with three 28% members, which is 3,528 dinars; family with four members 30%, and that's 0.000 dinars, and families with five or more members of 32%, and that's 4,032 dinars. I have to do one comparative, no matter how much this was appropriate to some MPs or not, but here I have the Social Protection Act 1997, so at a time when the Socialists were in power in the Republic of Serbia, when these percentages, according to the average of the salary that was now current, were set out as follows: individuals received 50% and earnings, families with two members 70% (and today it's in the proposal 22%), families with three members 90% (and today it's 28%), families with four members 95% (and today it's 30%) and families with five and more members 100% (and today it's 32%). Nevertheless, the correction of this law is, in any case, much better than the one we had in the previous government. That's why I think we should all make one more effort and vote it out, with a desire to create that economic background so that these receipts can be even bigger. Secondly, I would say very significant, the change of this law is in Article 15 when it practically stands out for other people's care and the help of 4,000 dinars, which is about now on these 12,600 dinars 30%, and at the time of the Socialists in their law it was 40%, and today it would be a little bit more. Is that other people's care and help enough? Of course not, because we know who these people are, and I'd say maybe even patients who need other people's care and help and that really 4,000 dinars can't settle all their needs. I will only give one concrete example: if it is fixed patients, lying patients, they are unfortunately forced to use adult diapers. One diaper is 40 dinars, and three per day is 120 dinars, so it takes 3,600 dinars per month. From that, the Health Insurance Fund only recognises one pack. I'm going to point out another more radical example, from my Kirkinda Health Center, because we're counting on such a man who has other people's care and help to stay in the hospital for a month. Just an example – total compensation, that was three days ago, which Kikinda Health Center received for feeding patients was 232,750 dinars, which was separated on the basis of 360 recognised beds. So, for each patient, between 700 and 800 dinars per month for food, or 25 dinars for three meals per day. Please, is that possible? Especially if it is known that such patients have, of course, special dietary needs. It's not possible. Why am I saying this? And health care, as well as social protection, is at the end as well as education and culture, on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we still have not managed to satisfy even one single sector that is on funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So if health were to be responsibly filled, in the way it really exists, then we could probably be able to solve these other problems more easily. It would be interesting to hear Mr Dinkic's finance minister succeed in honouring all this promised by the draft laws that are being adopted here in parliament, or the bill will serve only for daily-political purposes, which would not be good. There's something else I've registered, and that's that the draft of this law plans that another 13,000 new families will receive material security under this social security law. I'm afraid there are more than 13,000 such families in Serbia today, because let's not forget that from day to day more people in Serbia are losing their jobs or working but they still don't get paid, which we're not talking about here. Are these people also in a state of social need and will they have to count on this fund tomorrow? These are all very serious things and very responsible, I mean first of all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which takes on itself a very large responsibility to succeed in correcting these social unrests that exist in the country of Serbia. And, of course, I would be most fortunate to live in a country where there is not a single category of population in a state of social need, to live in a country where everyone works and only those who for health reasons are not able to do so. It would probably all be much easier and more pleasant for all of us. Unfortunately, this is reality. If this problem also has countries that are much more developed and with a much higher standard, why not us, but therefore we do everything we can to hire in the country of Serbia, and for that minimum, we make this assistance adequate. In this law, of course, there are still a number of advantages that have not existed so far, but this will probably be more said by my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4934	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, and let Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4935	Dear People's MPs, the bill on social protection and the provision of social security for citizens can also be challenged because of what there is in the bill, and even more because of what is not in the bill. On 2 April this year, the SRS Parliamentary Group submitted to the National Assembly a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which provided for one important newspaper in relation to the current legislation, which is to introduce so-called legislation in this law. the right to special material security. What's this about? I will quote Article 1 of this uncontested bill, which says: "The right to special material security is recognised to an individual, i.e. family who have a permanent and uninterrupted residence in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija for more than five years, starting on 24 March 1999, who are not temporarily displaced from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and who, as victims of occupation, violence and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, are unable to make incomes or achieve them below the level of social security." As we know, tens of thousands of our citizens are starving daily. In addition to being depreciated as human beings living in constant fear of biological survival on their own doorstep, they are also unable to self-inflict and provide funds for their survival. As you know, this assembly also brought declarations not long ago, and resolutions and a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The SRS looked forward to the unity between all political parties in this parliament and we lived for a time in the illusion that all parties involved in the adoption of this plan really think they are working specifically to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. However, the submission of this bill definitely convinced us that for most parties, and in any case for parties that make up the ruling majority, it was only one event, one political marketing, because how else do we explain the fact that the Republic of Serbia is not taking what is up to us alone? We understand the reasons that most of the plan adopted here cannot be realised without consent, or understanding, so-called. international communities, but what we have proposed depends solely on us. There is no argument that the state of Serbia is not currently in an economic situation to pass and implement this law, because it is relatively small funds, especially in light of what the ruling majority has lightly introduced as a new tax and fiscal burden on citizens. If you haven't already accepted our bill, we don't understand why, even if this key solution from our bill has not been incorporated into this bill of yours. I have heard opinions on the board of directors in terms of -- and that we have made, and that is, to accept the adoption of one such solution, so that perhaps the Constitutional Court would reject it as unconstitutional, because by means of this law, we are introducing the unequal status of Serbian citizens before the law. That certainly doesn't stand. We have an example that this same congregation has adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, where so-called Parliament was introduced. the principle of positive discrimination for national minorities. It is certain that this notion of positive discrimination here would have full justification. As for what is in the law, individual solutions can also be criticised. I think it's bad that this bill also introduces another state institution into our system. Namely, this bill provides for the establishment of a social protection office. The funds for the establishment and operation of the institute are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's this social security office gonna do? It will monitor and study social phenomena and problems, develop analyses and reports on the state of affairs in the field of social protection, monitor and study the work of social protection services, supervise the professional work of social protection institutions, organise professional training of professional workers, etc., and carry out all these tasks today, or organise a competent ministry. So what we have in a bunch of proposed or just adopted laws is being repeated here, only instead of the term "age" is a second term, I guess that in some ways amortizing the growing dissatisfaction in the people because the state is resorting to the formation of an increasing number of such institutions. Of course, this solution can also be defended in many ways, but what is undeniable is that today it really does not need to resort to the establishment of new institutions, especially at a time when factories are closed every day; a country that at the time of the closure of factories opens up budget institutions really doesn't have a good perspective. One more thing is foreseen by this law, which the minister failed to say in his brief explanation, which is -- new powers are given to the government of the Republic of Serbia can provide one-time financial assistance in cases of exceptional endangerment of the life standard of a large number of citizens, in order to respond more effectively to the protection of citizens under these circumstances. When you read this formula superficially, it would be said that no one can object to it. However, this is not about the fact that in exceptional situations specific individuals will be helped by budget funds specifically intended for these purposes. No, it's here that one-time cash aid will be allocated in cases of endangering the standard of living of a large number of citizens. What does that mean in practice? This means, in practice, that from now on, that is, from the entry into force of this law, the Government will, in a single currency, help to amortise major social unrest with specific individual situations. For example, if there is a blockage of key unsatisfactory traffic, then some government official with a bag of money will go to solve the problem for that day in that particular place. The means to implement this law, as the proposal says, are estimated at 330m dinars for the first three months of this year. So on an annual level, that's over a billion and 300 million dinars. We're wondering where that money came from, because there's no budget rebalance. This money will be provided on the 7th point of this agenda when it reaches the agenda of increasing the amount of social protection contributions. In fact, social security rates are increasing by 2.2 percentage points. This is the nominal amount, while predicting the expansion of the basis of the contribution to all forms of work and the payment of contributions based on several forms of work. For example, people who do temporary and occasional jobs, contract work, people who make revenues on a number of different grounds will pay contributions on all these grounds. It is best seen here in this case of demagogy, which especially serves the finance minister, and these days it has come into effect a law that abolished the tax on a 3.5% profit fund. And when the law was passed and the other day when the law began to apply, the newspaper titled that there had been a significant redundancy of the economy. On the other hand, at a small door, without media pompe, the tax burdens and the same economy are increased, probably in the same, and if not in a larger amount only for this purpose. How will the state solve the problem with the growing and greater inflow of potential social security users? Minister Lalovic himself, who is currently absent, has repeatedly gone public with the forecasts of large and mass layoff of workers employed in the state services and in the economy. There's a principled mistake, they keep saying they found too much employment when they came to power. It's not about overemployment, on the contrary, we have too many unemployed, but it's about companies working less and less and less for reduced employment, and that number of workers is being shown as surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4936	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic prepare, seek as an authorised representative after the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4937	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me begin by reminding you that we have passed 37 laws in this congregation since the beginning of its work, which is only a few months. The merits of this are all of us who voted for these laws, both the assembly majority and representatives of opposition parties who voted for these laws. Of course, there are opposition parties who felt that none of these 37 laws were good enough to support it and that is, of course, the very legitimate political position of an opposition group. I have to admit that he looks more like stubborn to me, but it's quite possible for it to be a political stance, that simply everything the ruling majority suggests is not good enough. I can agree with that as a possibility. MEPs G17 plus supported these laws above all because they believed they brought well-being to the citizens of Serbia. These laws were mainly about the economy or the judiciary, but regardless, there were always those elements I personally sought and very often found, which concerned the security of social security or the provision of minimums for those citizens who were particularly affected by poverty or who were unable to care for themselves. First of all, I think of children, women, older and powerless, people with disabilities, children with special needs, refugees and displaced faces. Now we have a law dealing with these very categories of our population. It's a law governing the area of social protection. I can fully agree with the fact that social protection in our country is not working very well and that this law is still far from making it perfect. I believe that we will all agree on the fact that in one poor country, in a politically unstable country, it is not easy to reach an enviable level of social security. That's what's standing as a fact. I can also agree and respect the view that in some previous period maybe the state has allocated more to citizens who are unable to take care of themselves. I'll remind you that in that period of the 1990s, there was a situation where I, for example, as a health worker, with a higher education, made so much money that I could buy three eggs for my salary. It probably means that those who had 50% of that profit might have been able to buy one and a half eggs, which might have provided them with a certain level of social security. But why do we support this law? First of all, we support him because we believe that he is to a greater extent than the solutions he offers provide for that social security. Why? Already colleagues before me, and Mr. Minister, have pointed out that what is most important in this law is the fact that it is equating this minimum level of social security to all citizens of our country. I've already said more than once that I come from a particularly poor area, so let's say, let's say that the average profit in the Lebanese municipality is 5,456 dinars, which is certainly much less than in some municipalities where it goes to an amount of 26,000 dinars. In that sense, this law will bring improvement to those people living below average earnings, and we have heard that there are 122 such municipalities, which means that a large number of families in Serbia will be allowed through these provisions of the law to have the right to material assistance from the state. I also want to say that I consider the very important provisions of the law to be those concerning Articles 12 and 13, relating to other people's care and assistance. In fact, working at a health center, on a child classing committee with developmental difficulties, during my 20 years of work, I've had the opportunity to talk to parents of children who are unable to look after themselves, or children who fall into the category of difficult or difficult distractions, means, in those categories that exercise the right to other people's care and help. Of course, the extent of their problems is such that much more time would not be enough to represent their views and explain all their problems. Of course they're forced to fight many of these problems alone, but the fact is that the state has an obligation to help them and the fact is that we have to keep making extra efforts to help these people. Of course, as long as our country is poor, it will not be able to fully meet and help them. I must remind you that there are also some rich countries in the world that are very badly concerned about people who need social protection and that wealth or economic development, in itself, does not mean a sufficient system of social protection in one country. That is why we all have to constantly make efforts to further take care of these categories of citizens in the process of economic and economic development of our country. I want to say that this difference that will now exist in the amount of other people's care and help, from 2,300 to 4,000 dinars, means a difference of 1,700 dinars per month, no matter how insignificant it may seem to us, significantly alter the material status of these people, or at least psychologically contribute to their dignity being a little higher. As for me personally, if this law contained only this provision, I would vote for it and not allow myself to harm any political position, at least for the next few months, these people who need help. Also, what I find particularly important in this law is the issue of foster care. I have to tell you that despite the fact that we often love ourselves to say that we are a very human society and a society that cares very much about children, unfortunately, child care is not something that we can especially praise in this country. I hope we can talk more about this when we talk about a law that regulates family relations. Now I want to tell you that, unfortunately, a large number of children in our country do not have parental ageing or adequate parental ageing. These children, unfortunately, are left to themselves and the streets. The state takes very bad care of these children, among other things, of course, because she's poor, but I'd say, not just because. One of the best opportunities to help these children is to encourage the institution of foster care in our country. The best way is for these children to be placed not in institutions, but in foster families. So far, this question has not been properly regulated. I have to say that foster families were mostly reported by people who were extremely human, who tended to take good care of these children, but this must not be left to the case, it must not be left to anyone's good will. It's just that this is something that the state has to worry about. Now for the first time in this law, we have solutions that say that the state is starting to take good care of it, which is the fact that foster families will receive significantly more funds to care for these children, that there will be a limited number of children who can be placed in a foster home, that these foster families will undergo special training that will enable them to take adequate care of children who take up custody. In the end, the state will provide these people with adequate pensions. They will enter the system of caring for their pensions. I want to mention another important part of this law, which is the one concerning user participation in the social protection decision-making system. So users now become policy actors and work institutions of social protection. As board members, users will find their place in their own decision-making system. It's something that I think is most logical. Also, we think it's a good thing that a social security office is established. It's not like any agency. The Institute of Social Protection is something we have in the education system, and in the health care system and most logically, there is also a social protection system, as an institution that will contribute to the improvement of this system and a significantly better social protection policy that our country needs to lead. It is an institution that will supervise the institutions of social protection and the most logical thing is that it exists in this country, if we want to boast that we are a country that cares about the socially endangered population. These are the most significant points of the law that will make G17 plus this law support. I'd like to share with you a little confidence that we in G17 plus have. In fact, we believe that the power of the state is not measured either by its economic power, by its military power, or by the power it has in politics. The power of the state is measured by the power of its weakest citizen, and in that sense, in an effort to strengthen these citizens, we will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4938	The word has an authorised representative of the DS, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4939	Dearly respected presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, I thought I'd start exposure to the sentence that it's very good that this law was in front of the MPs. However, my colleague who used to speak gave me a cream for a remark that I can't resist without saying. They passed 37 laws, not even five laws, all other amendments and additions, and laws are mostly projects made by the previous government. I must say, the government of the previous assembly would have been very pleased to have found projects in the ministries that you found and that she could use them. Unfortunately, she had to leave the basement of reform. I would, however, like to refer to this social security law that I think is very good that it is in the assembly procedure, because it provides the social security of citizens, establishing an equal minimum for all citizens in Serbia, but it gives municipalities according to their material opportunities to help their citizens. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law. We almost have no objection to it at all, because, as I said earlier, the proposed law is almost the same as the law that the previous government handed over in the assembly procedure and which is now in the archives of the Assembly, but which failed to come during that term in the assembly procedure, or before us MPs. However, we have one objection to the law. We simply think that the solution that was in the previous proposal would be better, and that would refer to foster care. The minister gave it a great credit, one of the merits, that foster care was found in the new law. Of course, we welcome that anyway. However, Article 16 ruled out the possibility for a member of the foster family to conclude a job contract outside the employer's place of employment. In the proposal of the last government, in the bill of law, a family member who was trained to be a foster parent had the opportunity to establish a working relationship, which is in line with the Labour Act. Of course, he had the option, which doesn't mean he had to. This is why we think that this solution could remain, because in such a way the status of the fosterer would be improved in some way for people who do not have employment, and in this way we would have the opportunity to have that pension insurance given to them by this law, which, of course, we welcome, through our work in some way earning. We think that this form of protection would be improved in this way and in any case it would be a much better solution for children without parental ageing. Unfortunately, because of the removal of the emergency procedure, as the law was initially passed in the assembly procedure, we had no opportunity to submit amendments, and we thought to put the amendment on this particular article 16, so that we would try to keep the solution set out in the previous proposal. As I said earlier, given that the law is our bill, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4940	You're reporting for replication? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4941	I appreciate the corrections my colleague gave me, but I just want to say one thing. What I said, I think, two days ago, the laws, and especially the social protection law, should not be an opportunity for party outwittings. It's absolutely irrelevant who wrote the law. What matters to me is what laws are good and what laws can be passed. In that sense, I was at the very beginning to support the efforts of the opposition party to which the colleague belongs because she supported a number of laws she considered to be good and I believe that all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament will continue to do so. What's important for our citizens is that we adopt good legal solutions, good additions to legal solutions or whatever their names are, but in any case I find irrelevant which expert, name and last name, wrote some law. It is important whether there is a political will for these laws to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4942	The word has a People's MP Ivan Radic, and let the MP Predrag Mijailovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. As an MP of the SRS, I will make a few principled remarks to this law showing that there are certain irregularities and certain gaps in this law. It is already in Article 1 that the first lack of this law is seen, which says that the costs of the procedure for the exercise of the right under this law are not borne by the citizens unless otherwise established by this law. My opinion is that it cannot be expected that the costs of the procedure for the exercise of the right under this law can be borne by the users of that right, so this is actually about one illogicality and I believe that this error should be corrected and the SRS Parliament Club has just submitted an amendment as far as this is concerned. Furthermore, in his presentation, counterpart Nedeljkovic made a very important point, and it is about a Serbian people who today are really hard to live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The opinion of the SRS parliamentary group is that this law should have included the people who are truly living in extremely difficult conditions, which is under the continuous siege and wheezing of Cypriot terrorists. This is actually about one of the most vital national interests, because actually these people who live in Kosovo and Metohija today are guaranteed such hopes that Kosovo and Metohija will return to Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party's view is that these people should have been given a kind of assistance from the Republika Srpska budget. We are aware of the situation, that it is a difficult time and that it may not be possible to provide financial assistance to everyone, but it could have been found for so many families living in Kosovo and Metohija, if they do not make revenues or live below the level of social protection, to provide a kind of assistance. Because, you know, if there are no more Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, then we can say that Kosovo is no longer part of Serbia. The next objection I have to make to this bill is to Article 5, which refers to Article 12. There's another illogical thing going on. It is said that the right to material security has an individual, a family that has no income or has less income than the minimum level of social security. I don't understand what a minimum level of social security means. What are the criteria for determining the level of social security, is it minimal, medium or maximum, and who is it that determines the level of social security? Furthermore, Article 13 of the proposed law relating to Article 25 of the basic text in which it is said - a supplement for the assistance and care of another person is determined in nominal monthly amount. The second view says that the monthly amount of the allowance referred to in Article 1(1) for September 2004 is 4,000 dinars, and then in the fifth position of this member is that the nominal monthly amounts of aid and care allowances to another person, rounded up in dinars, in accordance with Articles 2 and 4, shall be determined by the minister responsible for social issues. In the opinion of the SRS parliamentary group, the parameters for social contributions should be monitored by average earnings, not by the Life Cost Index or by a flat-rate assessment and by an assessment of the minister in charge. This is about one concept difference between the bill and the law as seen by the SRS. As one of the predecessors said, the SRS parliamentary club submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April this year a bill on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, which was not taken into consideration. We think it was quite a high-quality bill. As far as this bill is concerned, the SRS has tried, submitting a number of amendments to members of this law, to significantly correct it, amend it, and I urge the assembly majority to accept these amendments. What I still wanted to say, and it's directly related to social protection and particularly to the social security of citizens, is this. In the city from which I come, in Jagodina, there is one company, which is a social enterprise for professional training and employment of disabled persons and is called "Equipped". Otherwise, I'm in office furniture production. It is a social enterprise that today employs 139 workers, of which more than 60% are disabled and retarded persons. The problem with that company is next. I have come to understand that during the previous period, and even before the formation of this new government, the resolution ministry has paid this company 7,200 dinars per disabled employee on behalf of some kind of help, improving the working conditions or obtaining certain machinery and repromaterials they need. The problem is that employees in the company did not even get money from that money, and the last personal income was received for October 2002. I, as a National MP, sent a letter to the Assembly Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs on 7 April this year asking to address the competent ministry and just to make sure that those funds were paid to the company, with which it was intended and whether those funds were spent or who knows where, not to say in the pockets of the management structure. Otherwise, employees of this company live below every level. What they have is one meal a day, which a large number of them take home to provide at least one meal for their children. As I said, the company has disabled and retarded persons who are not even aware of their use and are very often under the threat of and scolding Director Mitr Pavlovic. I'll just show you the payroll of one of the company's employees, at the bottom of which says that personal income, i.e. salary, is a business secret institution and that immediate termination follows for the issuing of a business secret facility. I'm asking who's this guy who can threaten workers who haven't been paid in over two years. Who is it that can tell workers not to tell them what their salary is, that they must say that they are satisfied, that they must say that they are not hungry and that they have something to maintain and support their family and their children. Really, one amazing thing, and I just couldn't believe it when this came to me. This isn't the only case, given the circumstances that I'm from Jagodina, so I'm familiar with that. In "Kuru" since 29 March 2004, we had one text saying that the association of independent and independent unions took money from disabled people. So it's the exact same problem about the Kragujevac company. You know that then the minister was Dragan Milovanovic. I'm surprised that this answer I asked to come to me by the assembly board didn't come. You do a lot of things like that, and as you do, so do the choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4944	The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijailovic, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support and vote to amend and supplement the Social Protection and Social Security Act. Whether or not it is a national government and how much it thinks about the most endangered category of inhabitants is seen through this very law. As a rule, this endangered category of inhabitants also has its specific problems, they often get sick. As a doctor, I know that very often this category of people suffers from various infectious diseases, especially lately the number of tuberculosis patients has been increased. Therefore, the DSS as a national and state-run party supports this law, not only to be passed in the Assembly, but to be able to apply it practically. The changing law wasn't bad, but the one we're proposing right now is much better. That is why, in the future, it should be done in the Assembly, that the previous laws are changed, but for the benefit of the citizens. I hope that this government and this parliament will have more often such laws, as the Government has done so so far in the previous 37 laws. What changes in this law, which is why the DSS supports this law? We looked very closely and thought about what was good. I can tell you that many things here are better than they were. For example, amendments to the previous law in Articles 3, 4 and 5 suggest that the level of social security is not determined by the percentage amount of the average earnings achieved in the municipality, but by the percentage amount of the average earnings in the Republic. This amendment and the addition of the law achieves a uniform level of social protection at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which was not the case with the previous law. The previous law damaged the most vulnerable citizens in 122 municipalities. These 122 municipalities include Užice and all other municipalities in the pleasure area, i.e. in Zlatibor County. With this amendment and the addition of the law and 13,000 families, they gain the right to receive social assistance. The level of social protection is increasing two to three times in municipalities that were previously in an unfavourable position. This clearly shows that the Serbian government is responsible, according to the people and according to the most vulnerable category of inhabitants. That the Government is also serious about the most vulnerable category of inhabitants is seen by the rise of social protection levels in amendments and additions to the Law; at the moment of application of this law, 01. 09. In 2004, the level of social security will be calculated according to the average income achieved in the Republic in the second quarter of 2004, which in any case increases the financial assistance of socially unsettled persons. There is also a way of harmonising social protection, not according to the growth of earnings, which was earlier, but according to the increase in the cost of living, which is more realistic and more favourable for socially unsettled persons. Articles 12 and 13 suggest that compensation for assistance and care be increased almost twice. What do these accomplish? Families will be motivated to keep their faces in families, which is more humane, and those who need other people's help and care want it, while at the same time achieving a second economic moment, as this reduces spending from the budget, i.e. issuing for socially unsettled persons who need other people's help and care. This is a kind of thinking between the DSS and the government, that it has to be a people's government, and at the same time state-efficient, to think about state and budget, not to waste money. We also believe in the DSS that this law will not solve everything and that it is not ideal, but we hope that in the future, as soon as economic conditions are obtained, we will propose to amend and supplement this law and that it will happen during the rule of this government, perhaps in a year or two. In the government, it has been estimated that this law can be passed, that it can be economically covered; and whether it will be only a lie for socially unsecured persons or reality -- it is shown that at the right time the government has adopted this proposal to amend and supplement the law. What happened these days? These days, we have two major economic upheavals, which we freed the country of Serbia for a billion and 600 million dollars or euros, through the London Club's creditors. If it had been in previous governments, television would have been buzzing for 15 days. The government is here to work for the people, not to show them what she's done every day. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have you read at all, apart from a small note, in means of public information that in negotiations with the Russian government, Mr Vojislav Kostunica has made a major economic shift, i.e. he has resolved many debts and claims between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. If someone had done it in the previous government, we couldn't shut down 15 days of television, we wouldn't be talking about anything else, just that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government and the DSS don't think it's just socially endangered persons who are being helped, but those who need it, and at the same time, they think there should be as few of them in this country as possible. That is why it will help any able person who is socially endangered to help requalify and thus find a new job. It's real economic thinking and real help to people at risk. I hope that in the future we will pass laws like this and that there are no men here in this House who will vote against this law. We'll be happy when we're on the world level and we don't have people who need welfare and care. In that direction, brothers and sisters, we must all work in this country Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4946	Thank you to MP Predrag Mijailovic. The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let Rajko Baralic be prepared. Is Nikola Todorovic here? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralić, and let the MP of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4947	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a happy country that creates such an economic environment that the smallest possible number of citizens is in a state of social need. If the number of persons in this category is increasing, then it is or may be an indicator that economic conditions in one country have deteriorated, that the standard has deteriorated. It may also mean that the state has resolved the bag, moved the censorship and thus provided for a number of citizens to exercise this right to help their socio-economic status and position. The government is responsible for creating such an environment, increasing the number of jobs, increasing the total income in the family. Because that's how members of these families, the citizens of one state, live from their work, and not from what today is the subject of this law that is here on the agenda in parliament. Earlier in our country, they characterized the so-called Socialist professional relations, and the main feature of these relations was the principle of so-called "socialist professional relations". mutual socialist solidarity. The country's socio-economic system has changed, criteria have changed, ownership structure, ownership and state-owned relations have the obligation to try in a process called transition to help citizens who have lost their jobs and who have other needs, which are mentioned today by respected colleagues and colleagues, to get through this period more easily, because they would obviously not be able to. As for those who own companies, which have large capital, it is their interest, which is the interest of the state and citizens, to create conditions, to create an environment to make them easier to operate and to hire new people. If that is not possible, the state must then take them through increased rates of tax or contribution. First, it's better both for the state and for the citizens and for the people who have such needs. I represent here the socialists of Moraviga district, Chačka, Ivanjica, Gornji Milanovac and Lucan and all the citizens of that district. Here Ivanica is apostrophe as a municipality where the lowest average profit in Serbia is about 4,000 dinars. This is where Mr. Minister and fellow MPs have already said that by equating censorship, practically users of all these rights in 122 municipalities in Serbia are being brought into the same position. It is one of the reasons why it should support the amendments and additions of this law; and also these several elements, which were mentioned here, or 13,000 new families, the status of foster families, etc. I will take this opportunity and the presence of Mr. Minister to point to a problem that is present. For the third time I've done it in two terms in this House. I'm trying to get the children of a farmer whose parents died, one or both parents, even with the rights of children whose parents died and were in a working relationship. May I have your attention, please? I'll give you a few questions very briefly. The village in Serbia has suffered a terrible burden in various reforms in the past few years, or decades, however we take it. When election campaigns, when political programs are written, when people run for various levels of government, they go to Serbian hosts, as they say, take pictures on their properties, visit their farms, say how much better time will come for them tomorrow, and when all this goes on, everything stays the way it was. When you're a peasant child, so you don't have parents, then you're only completely turned to the good will of your relatives and the economic strength of your household, which doesn't have to mean anything, because when, say, your father dies, the property usually parks, the blackberries, and the paves by the gods, the floats fall. Usually it happens in a division of assets. Those who are previously educated from this property take their parts, and then those children without their parents, by definition, pay their aunts or uncles, and they practically not only stand where they were, but also put their existence and the position of their household in an impossible situation. On behalf of all those who were big and yellow pessimists on a big vacation, but who couldn't buy it, who ended up in other people's pants, who every time someone mentioned the word father or mother had a terrible association, please support this for what I stand for here, and I'm betting that the children of the peasants whose parents died have a level of material security while their regular schooling takes place, regardless of the conditions laid down by the law in Articles 7, 8 and 9. So there aren't any conditions that everyone else has to meet. Why does it matter? This is not just a contribution to help these children materially. It is a very concrete contribution that they, so small and so orphaned, are elected for their dignity, which is often and daily threatened, which forms them as special personalities. They've been marked for life. Their struggle is much more difficult and much more uncertain than those who have the right to a family pension when they don't have one or both parents. I could talk about it for a long time. I believe you understood me and I believe you will support me. This has nothing to do with political parties. This has nothing to do with any party's political agenda. This has to do with one sincere desire for someone who's been through this whole time that I'm putting you here today to help those who might be or are in such a situation. Thank you for listening to me. Mrs. Gordana Matkovic refused to do this. I had the highest opinion on her. She was one of those ministers in the last government whose efforts I supported, but she didn't understand what I was talking about. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to study, if you can't do it this way, and show that we are the people who are responsible, who are worthy of those who I represent here on behalf of all those little girls and boys in Serbia who have this problem that I'm talking about here today. The only person in life can't face a sad view of someone else's or their own children. Anything else can handle. For that view today, please support and ask that, when we get to the amendment, support the amendment that I have defined as Amendment 3a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4948	Thank you. The People's Messenger Radiša Ilic has the word, and let Ivana Kovacevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from Pomorava County, more specifically from Paracino, a city in which there were 12,000 employees in 2000, and three years after DOS authorities, authorities in which the current minister's party took part, only 5.5 thousand people work in Paracino. Now, that's the contribution of the former government, and I believe that many of these six thousand workers are today social cases. Such a situation is in many Serbian cities. This bill of amendments and additions is in fact an attempt to mitigate somewhat the bad conditions of life for certain categories of population. These poor conditions have been particularly highlighted in the last three years, when there has been a ruthless dismissal of workers and the closure of many businesses. The Serbian Radical Party also submitted a bill on amendments and additions to the law several months ago, but by the assembly's will the majority did not come to the assembly debate. I'll get back to that bill later. Article 9 in the review of the provisions states that rights are within the framework of social protection, which the old Republic of Serbia, i.e. the competent ministry: material security of socially endangered citizens, assistance and care for others, training assistance for work, and other rights, and I will mainly look back at these three items. When it comes to material security, alongside those who are in a difficult material situation in central Serbia, it is the most difficult for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who need material assistance to survive and stay in Kosovo, to live, because they are daily exposed to any pressures from Shipar, terrorist, KFOR, various international organisations that are in every way trying to drive Serbs out of Kosovo to become ethnically clean. If funds can be found in the budget for any agencies, associations, organisations that have any suspicious action, if state funds can be thrown out for too expensive and no one needs studies and elaborates, then money must be found for the Serb non-powerful in Kosovo. We need an example of many countries in the world who are extremely caring for their countrymen living in crisis areas in order to preserve their ethnic space. When it comes to the right to add to the help and care of other persons and to help train for work, there is above all thought of persons who have had a hard time suffering from multiple sclerosis, muscle dystrophy, paraplegics, faces born with Down syndrome, etc., then persons born as disabled, and their parents, or guardians. In most Serbian cities, there are associations of those sick persons. Such an association existed in Paracino, perhaps with the will of local authorities no longer exists. These associations were involved in the establishment of some small workshops or companies where disabled persons were gathered, some production occurred, they were involved in making propaganda material by order or by making packaging, and through this work they achieved part of the income that improved their living conditions. The ministry should try to help such associations that want to do something like that, so that the work does not focus on enthusiasts and parents and children who would like to accomplish such a thing. I said already, there's no such association in Paracino today, there's about 180 members, and now they're waiting for someone to reorganize them so they can afford some income. Also, in the Municipality of Paracin, more specifically in St. Friday's monastery near the Source, the sisterhood manifests care for about 100 protégés of that home. First of all, I would like to point out that these are extremely difficult retarded persons with severe physical disabilities. I appeal to Mr. Minister and Ministry to find ways to help the facility, because they only get one-time budget assistance from SO Parachin, then from some associations that hear about this situation, or what happens in the monastery. It wouldn't be bad to help them, first of all, to get inventory, to set up a medical team that would permanently visit this home, because that's really necessary, too. The Sisterhood doesn't ask for any pay. They think it's their role to help those who are seriously ill. Finally, I would refer briefly to the provisions of Articles 61 and 69b. Under Article 61, the right to material security shall be reduced by 50% if the user is on hospital treatment. Since any hospital treatment requires increased costs, we feel it is unnecessary to deny in these situations 50% of the assistance we grant it. As regards Article 69b, where the appointment is regulated, that is to say, the selection of the director of the Centre for Social Labour, appointed by the municipality with the consent of the Ministry, we know that in certain municipalities where the government depends on all coalitions, there is a consensus on the particular interests of these small parties, so that certain directorial posts are offered without expertise, without calling, which can have far-reaching consequences on the work of this social work centre. I think you'll appreciate our performances, but basically, these additions and the amendments to the law are just the mitigation of everything that happened in the last three years, which is that today people are extremely hard to live on, that there are too many people without a job and that they're kind of trying to make ends meet. As far as you're going to do it, it remains to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4950	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragoslav Milkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4951	My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the text of a law that will fully support the G17 Group. Why? First of all, I have to say, because he's socially just. I don't know how familiar you are with the fact that right now in this country, as we've heard before, in 122 municipalities, citizens are receiving less social assistance than in the other 23 municipalities. Now I would give you some concrete examples that might shock you, but if we compare the average salary level for the last quarter of 2003, we will get information that social aid in Dimitrovgrad or Ivanjica amounted to slightly less than 800 dinars, and during that time in Belgrade, Vrsac, Novi Sad, Požarevac amounted to 3,000 dinars per member of the family. That difference is very big. Therefore, I see no reason why some MPs today are rebelling against this law and why they will not vote for it. I hope they vote eventually. Furthermore, as far as this law is concerned, I must say that the citizens of Belgrade, Novi Sad, and the Fireman will not receive less than they will all receive the same amount, which is very good. What's also good at this law is the introduction of surveillance. Some here have mentioned that it's not good to set up a social security office or any kind of surveillance. Since I was working at the Social Work Centre, I know that there have been cases where citizens were completely unjustly receiving social assistance, and during that time they owned a house or a car, because there was no adequate supervision to prevent it. In addition to overseeing professional work, such attempts to manipulate the state will be prevented, leaving more money for those who really need it. As far as foster care is concerned, I think it's a good thing that some things have been changed in this law. Now it will be defined that the amount of income for a foster parent who takes care of one child is 20% of the republican salary average. Since the amount will be paid and contributed, for example, a foster parent who has three children in her home will be able to raise enough money for a certain number of years, even to achieve a retirement internship. A colleague from the DS mentioned that all the laws we're making here were written not by us, but by the previous government. Well, as far as this law is concerned, you know that the previous ministry, led by Mrs Gordana Matkovic, which I very much respect, made this bill in 2002. I really wonder why this law hasn't been passed since 2002. You know why it wasn't adopted - because the former finance minister, Mr Djelic, failed to provide funds, so the law was neither adopted nor applied. By contrast, the current finance minister, Mr Dinkic, has thus conceived the budget and has already planned the budget for the implementation of this law, and this assembly has passed the law, so this law will now be able to apply. Of course, it is good for us to adopt the laws proposed by the previous government, for we feel that we should continue to work on everything that is good. Speaking of budgets, I have to say how the budget is charged. The budget is charged so that all those who are employed, who do, who have private firms, pay taxes on the budget. These days we are witnessing that some individuals who do, who have private firms, are calling for some humanitarian action, are talking about some humanity at work. But I use this opportunity to very well-intentionedly invite them to pay taxes, especially to pay extraprofits, and then there will really be enough money for all the poor, for children without parents, for the disabled, for the elderly and the sick. I call upon you all once again to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4952	Here you go, as head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like here in public both in front of MPs and in front of Serbian citizens to clear up some dilemmas, as the reasons of the ministry say one thing, MPs who support this ministry speak the same way, and by reading the law, a man can conclude that everything is not exactly how they try to present the minister and his MPs. First of all, don't brag too much about just suggesting here the laws that the government has prepared before you, because if it wasn't for those laws, I don't know what we've been doing these few months since you've been in power. Turns out there was no government before you we wouldn't have anything to discuss in the National Assembly. It's about social justice, and then you tell us that in many cities, because everything was tied to a base that makes up the average profit per municipality employee, or city, the amount was lower than in large cities where the average earnings were made per employee higher. There are exact figures and there's really nothing to object to. Now I'm interested in something else -- why don't you say, when this law comes into effect and when the September payments come, that someone will receive less in September than they would have if it hadn't been for this law. That someone's a social aid recipient. We're not talking about the rich, the owners of private companies, the MPs, the ministers who ask for 150% higher wages for themselves, we're talking about social assistance users. So what if he lives in Nis, but he'll receive less in September than you'd accept not to adopt this law. Next, the synchronization of the so-called. The minimum level of social security with the Life Cost Index will bring less income to those who can't survive with this, but they are doomed to survive thanks to social assistance, because the government has been complaining for a month that salary growth is much higher than the cost of living. As soon as she felt that they were paying, the government tied social assistance to the cost of living, not to the growth of profits in Serbia. The difference between them is almost ten percentage points per month. Life costs went up two to three percent this month, and wages, I heard, went up 13 percent. Now 27,000 of those who have had low profits and 13,000 more who will become recipients of this law and help them will be damaged because you change the conditions for them to exercise their rights. We need a serious explanation here, not stories about how we're trying to iron social aid for the citizens. One more thing, it takes about 700 million dinars to enforce this law. The law cannot enter the assembly procedure if the promoter says it needs 700 million dinars to enforce this law. The constitution says otherwise, Mr. Minister. You're here to tell us where to find that money. You know what the budget deficit is. There is no budget for new obligations under this law. Even if the budget was zero, you'd have to deny someone. We have a budget in great dubiousness. It is not true, Mr. Minister, that additional funds are needed for three months in 2004, but for four, because from September 1st to the new year there are four months, not three. That was supposed to add up what the last quarter meant. So obviously there's a part of good intentions. Apparently, some citizens will be damaged. From this pay phone, it is clear why someone will receive less social assistance - just because a new law and a new social assistance accounting system have entered into force. One who receives social assistance in Nis will not be sufficiently reasoned that the one in Ivanjica had less than he did. He'll be unhappy, because he can recalculate himself. It's like retirement to you, like everything else. Everyone's already capable of calculating how much he'd have and how much he'd have. You have knowingly avoided saying in your explanation how many citizens you have been reducing the amount of social assistance benefits since 1 September. We want to help you pass every law that is good for the citizens of Serbia, especially for the most vulnerable. But, come on, pass a good law, let's think a little bit about people living in Kosovo and Metohija in the most difficult conditions (there are not many), in such difficult conditions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has provided the special acts of the Government, at the request of the National Assembly, with MPs from Kosovo and Metohija twice as much income as MPs who do not live in Kosovo and Metohija. So we admit it's hard to live in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's also admit that by this law, we provide people who have not moved out of Kosovo and Metohija with double the income under this law, not to count how many have moved out and that one day we say that there are no social benefits in Kosovo and Metohija. So much for how anyone understands both the state and the law. In principle, we are as an opposition party against every draft law passed by the government, and yet, on the other hand, as a party that is very serious and that would deal with this matter alone if there were an opportunity and that you wanted to put at least some of our draft laws on the agenda, we want to help you pass a law that will allow a certain number of people, not a big one, to be better. Let's coordinate it through the amendment debate. If it turns out you're ready for co-operation, we might be voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4954	At the same time, I apologize to everyone for not knowing that the presidents, or authorized representatives, did not speak at first. I'll take care of it during the debate. It refers to representatives of the DSS, G17 plus, the SPO and MPs who do not belong to any party. The word now has the People's MP Dragoslav Milkovic, and let the MP Goran Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Dragoslav Milkovic, a folk MP from the Pcinj County, the Municipality of Trgovište, the southernmost Serb municipality, where radicals always win. No one comes from other politicians. Looks like they've written off this territory. I will talk about the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and the socio-economic situation in southern Serbia. To answer my question, I've been moved by what triggers and arouses every human man, every honest man at this moment. It is the life of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. It is not possible for every human soul and every ear to hear the echo of the Serbians whose houses are burned, who are killed on the doorsteps of their houses, who welcome the bare-armed and well-trained mob whose only goal is to destroy everything that is Serbian and living, to destroy every trace of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. The addition to all that is the cynicism of world powers that, like, grieve over everything that's going on out there. Cinism is an expression of the willingness of these so-called so-called cynicisms. temporary authorities to help restore ruined goods, and robbery, life, nothing about it. The hypocrisy never ends. Now I'm going to say something about the socio-economic situation in southern Serbia. I come from the municipality of Trgovište, which is the southernmost Serb municipality, with 99.9% of Serbian living. None of the other politicians are coming, only the leadership of the SRS is coming. That's why we win there all the time. The municipality of Trgovište affects the area of 370 square kilometers. Let me just point out that Andorra is smaller, San Marino, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Malta is smaller. (President: Please allow the speaker to speak. ) The situation is very bad in economic and social terms. People have moved out, there's about 7,000 residents out there, companies don't work, businesses don't work, everything's gone, local government doesn't work, people are out of work, people are out of work, they're out of territory, they're out of territory, they're out of people. A similar situation is in Jablanic, Pirotski, Borsko and Zaječar County, where the people are moving from the mountain border area. The territory remains empty. About 100,000 people have moved out of southern and eastern Serbia's border areas for the past 10 years. The border is not guarded by the army and the police. We need a people. The state is threatened and has to react urgently, draw up a plan and programme to keep these border areas alive, and the territory gets security, so that our neighbours do not highlight their claims towards the territories that Serbs are leaving. Serbs leave the border areas, flee to central Serbia and Belgrade. There's no state strategy to stand in the way of this, and this is a warning signal in every serious state. Let's not let a scenario happen from Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs are expelled at a high percentage, and the Albanian national minority raises the issue of rights over territory. Serbia's state will be difficult to protect relaxed border areas without people, and these areas are very important in an economic and geostrategic situation. All the authorities have kept it quiet so far. If this continues, in 2030, Serbs will be a demographic minority in their own country. The state of Serbia needs to react urgently, to provide jobs in these abandoned areas, wages, roads, phones, create living conditions for people to return. The Republic of Serbia has completely neglected the development of these parts of the country. The security of citizens living there should be ensured. Fear, poverty, misery are the main driver of fleeing to the heart of Serbia or out of the country. Given that the ethnicity of Serbs is very low, the image of the tragedy is complete and the state needs to react urgently until it is too late, as Serbia gathers like a woolen sweater after washing. Let's not let Serbia be a banana-republic. For starters, the state could take care of social cases in this part of Serbia. I call on the Minister to visit the Municipality of Trgovište and see how the people live there, so that I don't turn out to be carrying out some empty phrases here. If he wants to come to my expense, I'm calling him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4956	The People's Messenger Goran Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger Branislav Blazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4957	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on social protection is one of the important elements of the regulation of the social system that has a strong accent in the social state. The liberal democratic concept representing the DSS, which I belong to, implies, and this is also written in the constitutional proposal, that strong and significant elements of the social state must be present at the same time as the development of the market economy and that it is often thought that the competition, which can be cruel, excludes many social groups from the centre of social events and that the state does not account sufficiently for them, is simply not true. These two concepts are completely peaceful in one symbiosis and permeate. So, the strong development of the state is now allowing for both more complex and more fundamental social care of certain social groups. Strong, fast, intense economic development is exactly the best social programme. Because the fewer citizens are in a state of social need, and at the same time there is more money in the budget for those who still need it, there will be fewer problems in this area. The previous law, which was passed since 1991, has solutions that have long been overcome. The level of social security provided by this law is no longer sufficient and it was just necessary to pass a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act. So I'm going to repeat what many of my predecessors have already said, I'm going to level that level of social security in the Republic, and in 122 municipalities this level will be higher, because these are those municipalities whose average earnings were below average in the Republic, and 13 000 families will be covered by this programme. We just heard someone's gonna get hurt. That's simply not true, and I'm guessing without an insight into where the average profit is mentioned in Nis. So there will be a simple unification of these rights. Of course, this law is not ideal and that making it possible for social protection at one higher level is not enough, but the longest time begins with the first step. Furthermore, it is certainly significant that there is an opportunity for disabled people to receive, in the light of other people's care and help, an amount of 4,000 dinars that is almost double the existing one, but certainly there is much to be done to increase these amounts over a further period. Besides, we've got an incentive for foster families. It is changed in a way and an organisation of this social protection system that provides for a certainly more quality structure of this system, which will again result in an improvement in the status of persons in a state of social need. What is certainly most important is that there are as few people in this competition as possible in groups with these needs and that other elements of the social state are also clearly developed and applied in the shortest possible period. Because this is what the state can do today, but it can do a lot more with the proper economic development and quality of the social system, by increasing the number of jobs, by making quality social programs in companies that are in crisis today, which is exactly the essence of quality social programs. What this law means, at least in a symbolic sense, is the concern of the state for those who are in this state of social need by birth or because they have experienced something in their lives, but also for those who come in such a state because the rules of this struggle are sometimes cruel and therefore the state must care about them. In a different way, this is being resolved in modern countries and neither of them has resolved until the end, but what the DSS and the government in which it is located want is to take care of these social groups and not at all be on the verge of its interest. Accordingly, the DSS will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4958	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vesna Lalić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4959	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law before us that we don't even know who wrote it. They went out and said it was written by the previous government. If the previous government has written, then I advise this government not to prescribe the laws of the previous government, because we know how this previous government went. If it was rolling, the people wouldn't have taken it off in the previous elections. What's in the beginning here clearly, that's that disproportion between wishes and possibilities. On the one hand, it is our desire to remain maximum solidarity, human in society, and on the other hand, the possibilities of this country, the decline in production, the country has been brought to an economic collapse, bankruptcy, because workers on the streets and factories are closed, where taxes are increasing, and all of this is a terrible imposition. Do you actually not see the forest from a tree? Then someone says it's all one heavy demagogy, one story about how now through one social protection law, we show that, to God, we are a society that has some perspective and that this perspective will point to socially endangered people. That demagogy obviously can't go through, especially when we're starting to see an absurd situation to re-establish some agencies. This isn't called an agency, though. This is called a social security office. We're going back to strengthening bureaucracy and administration, and we need someone to separate and make a lot of money to pay for the employment of some new administrators who are going to follow, record, notate and make records. In this country, we will obviously reduce the number of employees, but we will have a huge increase in the number of registers in Serbia. There may be some things here and acceptable if we don't already get the story that this bill is going to cost 110 million a month. A billion and a half a year. Gentlemen, somebody's got to make that money. That money needs to be earned by these people who are today 35 degrees away from grain, fighting for every grain. The money should be earned by workers, who today in Serbia are socially threatened by not receiving salaries or receiving salaries that represent more social compensation than some real compensation for their work. There is therefore a lot of contradiction here; it is said that we will increase social assistance in some of the municipalities of 122 municipalities, so that the base will be the average of personal income in the Republic of Serbia. All right, that's absolutely accepted, but then you must openly admit that social assistance will be reduced in those municipalities where the average personal income is higher than the average personal income of the Republic. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Why are you running away from saying that? I don't mind, and I need to increase social assistance in Ivanjica, but I do mind reducing social assistance in Kickinda because of that. It is not solidarity, then, but a reduction of social assistance for certain people that the municipality is able to pay. The minister has brought it out here, which is already slow to pass as a difficult demagogy, that now the directors will write some programs and based on these programmes, their quality, their work, etc. The directors of social institutions will be elected. Gentlemen, it will continue to be elected as you choose them now - by political belonging; the politicisation of everything, and even in social institutions, has reached an absolute maximum. Even this minister did not become this because he wrote a programme, but because he is a member of the coalition. So it's not all that bad, I'll say there's something positive about this law. It is an attempt to strengthen and develop foster care in Serbia. It's really positive with everything that I think is negative; I don't see why anyone would agree to vote for a new bureaucratic institution, which you are now calling the Social Protection Office, and accept that this is how the economy collapsed, the farm collapses, so many poor workers and peasants take extra taxes to finance some administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4960	The People's Messenger Vesna Lalic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4961	Ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, social security and social security are something that is necessary, especially when it comes to socially endangered categories, such as recipients of material assistance and child support, or when it comes to social security programmes, pensions and help unemployed persons. On the other hand, this is a budget item that significantly burdens the budget as it is ours and reflects on the scale of investments. We also have a situation of social tension in developed countries, and what to say about us who are in the transition process, except that on the basis of the record of the number of unemployed, as well as those living at the border of the existential minimum or below that border, a programme of social protection for the vulnerable part of the population must be established, i.e. to make a poverty reduction strategy supported by an appropriate economic plan to increase investment and reduce deficits, such as our government, more precisely the G17 plus, has. In this strategy, the emphasis should be placed on finding employment opportunities, but also on social benefits for those who are unable to provide themselves with an existential minimum. On the other hand, it is necessary to encourage the development of a small economy and to lend good individual projects, but also to provide adequate and content dialogues with trade union organisations. Amendments to the Social Protection and Social Security Act have brought one major paper. This is the right to material security of the family, which is determined equally in the territory of the entire Republic, compared to the average income, and users of the right to other people's care and assistance are given to this when receiving by 66% higher than the previous ones. Under the previous law, a censorship for the right to this kind of assistance was determined according to the average profit of the community where the family lives. This resulted in, say, a four-member family somewhere in southern Serbia whose members are unemployed and unable to work on the name of help receiving a little less than 1,000 dinars. The same family in New Belgrade, where I come from, gets 5,660 dinars. So five times as many. The discrepancies in material security that are determined on the basis of average employee earnings lead to a huge difference in the level of material security in municipalities, so the relationship is about 1:5. The current level of social protection and social security is such that it does not provide even minimal security, resulting from an unfavourable economic situation. The new proposed legislative solutions correct this anomaly, while at the same time raising the level of material security for the whole Republic at the highest level achieved, so that the pay gap is lost among Vojvodina users, as highly developed and southern Serbia as an undeveloped part of our republic. At this point and from this place, I don't want to praise this law, but I can say that he has the next advantage. First of all, it proposes to increase income for the assistance and care of another person, which is extremely good, regulates the issues relevant for housing in foster families; inspection and supervision is being introduced in the field of social protection in institutions; the basis for the education of new institutions is being created; more specifically, the criteria for selecting and appointing the director of institutions; the possibility of users being members of the management boards of institutions, with the ability to decide by direct participation in the work. The higher role of the state in the performance of social protection institutions is ensured, issues of capacity utilisation are regulated according to high standards and, as very important, the possibility is that each municipality can establish a social labour centre, which has not been so far since the criteria were in the government's jurisdiction. On this occasion, I would mention one association, the Republic Association, to assist people with autism who advocate the creation of a legal opportunity to participate in co-operation with the state in the formation and management of institutions for education, work and housing of people with autism, as well as the adoption of all laws concerning this population. Such solutions have produced good results in countries that have developed a system of protection for people with special needs. This association has contributed to the formation and better work of all relevant institutions dealing with autism. In Serbia, to the extent that we are able to do so, the current example is the section for professional education of people with autism at the Anton Skal elementary school, where, apart from the three-year struggle to open this department, there is a much-qualified space for quality teaching, or workshop. I heard today that despite the Ministry of Education and Education's recommendation, the principal has abolished this department, that is, this workshop. Here, parents just wanted to provide as much humane and content as possible to their children as possible, as well as to show their willingness to provide the Association with financial resources for the work of this department. I'd like to say a few more words about this law, because I think it's good. G17 plus will support him first of all because the Social Protection Act is actually a barometer of society, its condition, the way of life. He's taking a history of the state so the government can diagnose and start therapy. That's why 700,000 dinars were allocated from the budget, and I think it's very brave of Mr Dinkic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4962	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic, so Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4963	Just a few comments about what's been said so far. I'll be brief. As for some remarks and what is said (as regards not directly the law, but the work of my ministry) on the situation in the DES, where are protection workshops, and in Jagodina there are some problems and possible malversions, meanwhile we have made one inspection of all the DESs in Serbia and protection workshops. Now we complete all the information, because we had certain indications that there was an abuse and already one part is directed to certain competent authorities that should deal with it and not this ministry. That's what we're working on. As for the very objections to this law, I must admit that I have not heard any key remarks, capital, which would potentially challenge the very concept of the law in any way. The fact is, we're changing the system here, establishing a new system in the area of social protection. This system must be clear, simple, applicable and a system that we can use tomorrow when the situation in Serbia is better. The system's completely set up. This is where the funds were mentioned. Of course the funds were provided, otherwise this law wouldn't be here. Of course they're secure, I don't tend to establish some rights that remain bare rights. In this regard we have a rich experience, I have had it at least since 1990, and even before 1990, at that time a lot of beautiful rights, great rights, just can't be realized. Much better than the practice we've had in this country for decades. I don't think that this kind of suggestion or objection is true because we think we need to edit the system so that the rights that the state guarantees and achieves. That's why it's for example. The planned mechanism of compliance with the cost of living, not the growth of earnings. We've had a lot of these solutions with average profits, a profit adjustment, see where the pension system came from. It sounded very nice. We had a period where pensions were 91% of the average earnings. Look where we're finished, 50% of the pension funds are financed from the budget. If this continues, Serbia's entire budget will be a pension fund. I mean, we don't have to play with these things, we don't have to say things to be popular, we need to watch what's possible and what's possible to help these people. This law is such; with some possible objections, nothing is perfect, establishing a normal and simple system according to the country's material capabilities. I think it's a good law because it evens out the rights of all Serbian citizens. When it comes to this, I think in some other rights it will have to be equal to the citizens of Serbia, not that we have a system like some backlog from the past, which is completely abnormal, for example. in cash benefits for the unemployed. I want to create a normal system and I think this law is part of that normal labour and social legislation. One more thing to say: this ministry, while I'm here, will maintain continuity with what I consider to be good (and that's what was said - who wrote this law), by making a number of changes, which I can talk about tomorrow if I have to, but also real discontinuity with what wasn't good and that's why you'll have this fall law on working with significant changes, as well as some other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4964	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Let me remind you that it doesn't matter who the law says. Governments don't get writing units, they get government, I understand. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the biggest problem of this law and this government is that this law will not be able to implement because by now a social pyramid has been formed in Serbia where 42% of citizens live below the existential minimum, 46% barely put an end to the end, about 13% can live normally, and in those 1% all Kolesari, all Janjusevici, all "MK comets", all "Krmivoji", all "Karici" and so on. In applying this law, for 42% of the population, you'll have to count on the state to have some social benefits to ensure the existence of the family. Since yesterday and the day before yesterday we discussed the law on bankruptcy and the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, and that at one of the next sessions, when the day for voting is set, these laws will be passed, count on another 150,000 people to be found on the street and thus fall on the burden of the state, right under this law. The law is not good because it says – in the Republic's budget funds are provided for the allocation of one-time assistance in cases of exceptional endangerment of the life standard of a large number of citizens. The standard of living, my dear Members of the People's Parliament, has long been threatened by a large number of Serbian citizens, for three or four years, and for the last year since you ruled in particular. An individual who is capable of working, or a family who has members capable of working, except where most of the members are unable to work or is a member of the family at military service, material security belongs to a duration of 9 months a year. An individual who is capable of work - many Serbs are able to work, but many factories have been nailed and many people are unable to work. Since my time is limited, I'll just say a few words. The municipalities of Ivanjica and Novi Belgrade have been compared a few times, with 800 dinars in Ivanjica and 5,000 in New Belgrade. Well, Mr. Minister, don't cut New Belgrade, but raise Ivanjica. That's the basic problem. If you can't, then get out of the way and go to the elections, and some other people will come, I hope the Serbian radicals, who will know how to rule. In addition, it is said – one member 16 percent, two members... Mrs. Dacin said how many 16 percent, and that's 2,000. I'd like to see any of the MPs or ministers who can survive with 2,000. Or – a family with two members of 2,500, a family with three members of 3,000 etc., so that the family with multiple members would have 32% of 13 000, which is about 4,500. And one more thing about foster care. No better situation. I have family friends who are foster parents, i.e. foster family and I know how many states for two children they feed and care for their salaries, and how much, in fact, they have to invest. Because that child must have both a notebook and a pen, especially school kids, and also a computer, why not, it's not wrong that he doesn't have parents, and even to the sea to go, why not, it's not wrong that he doesn't have parents and it belongs to the foster family, and the total giving of one child is going to be around 2,500-3,000. It can't do that. Furthermore, Article 42 states: the contract is concluded with one family member who, in the process of assessing similarity, preparation and training in the competent social protection institution, is qualified as a foster parent... Why didn't you propose to this foster licensee, at least to have well-licensed foster parents nurse our children who come into foster care. Don't play games, Mr. Minister. Don't play games, gentlemen of the government. Don't play with people's fates. Serbia is hungry. No matter what you rob the peasants and take their grains for seven dinars, or six plus one and a half, seven and a half dinars, Serbia will again be hungry because you bought them last year and exported eight dinars, and then imported about 200-300,000 tonnes of 13 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-07-0.u4966	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 130 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Korać, Dragan Vuksanovic, Slobodan Mihajlović, Velimir Stanojevic, Goran Knezevic, Nenad Bogdanovic and Bojan Pajtic. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which stated that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Alimpic, elected from the Democratic Party's election list – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Alimpic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Social Protection and Security Act for the Social Security of the City (Resumption) The word has a National MP, Heliana Dragojevic. Let the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth be prepared.
