ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, we're not starting a session, this is exactly a notice, please respect it - in accordance with Article 80(3) and starting with the authority set out in Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to allow for the coordinated work of the Assembly's committee on today's agenda points, I delay the start of the session today at 15.00 hours. Meanwhile, the three Assembly committees will meet - the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee; they would allow them to make appropriate decisions, in particular regarding the 2nd item of the agenda of today's session, in order to have a complete proposal. Please appreciate this. We'll begin the session at 3:00. Thank you very much. (The session started at 3:20 p.m. Predrag Markovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that according to official record, today's session is attended by 171 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Natasa Micic, Milan Radulovic, Arsen Kurjački, Goran Davidovic and Susana Grubjesic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that we have called this session, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time, set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the need to make laws and decisions on the agenda as soon as possible, which were established by 103 MPs in this request for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Živan Vladimirović, Niko Todorovic, Goran Dunjic, Dr Milomir Dunjic, Nikola Lalić, Milan Veseninović, Boban Vojnović, Nenad Mitrovic, Miti Avramov, Gordani Gajic, Vuceti Tošković, Stojan Cvetković, Zlatko Radić, Goran Jocic, Ivan Radić, Rodoljub Gačević, Stevica Deđanski, Srboljub Marinković, Milivoju Vuković, Dr Zoran Mašić, Lazara Jocic and Tihomir Đurić, elected by the electoral list of the Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Šeljić, Milan Milivić, Milan Mašić, Dr. Zoran Mašić, Lazar Šilić Šilić, Mrarić, Mirić Mirić, Mirić Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Miri Boj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the selection of MPs of the people, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Živan Vladimirović, Nikola Todorovic, Goran Dunjic, Dr Milomir Dunjic, Nikola Lalić, Milan Veselinović, Boban Vojnović, Nenad Mitrovic, Miti Avramov, Gordani Gajic, Vuceti Tošković, Stojan Cvetković, Zlatko Radić, Goran Jocic, Ivan Radić, Rodoljub Gačević, Stevica Dedjanski, Srboljub Marinković, Milivoju Vuković, Dr Zoran Mašić, Lazar Čavic, Tihomir Đurić, Milni Milošević, Milan Marković, Mark Djurić, Goran Knezić, Mr Zoran Beretić, Mr Borarović, Mr. Mirović, Milović, Milić, Milić, Dragić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Dragić, Dragić, Mirić, Mirić. I congratulate the MPs in the election and ask the newly elected MPs to enter the hall and attend the vote. We'll just wait a minute. Newly elected Members of the Electronic Service share a card. We can keep working. You were presented the minutes of the February 12th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, under Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. I put to the vote the minutes of the February 12th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. In 192, there were no 18 votes, a total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the February 12th 2004 session of the Second Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of 103 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposals for a decision to put aside the Decision on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the Decision on the election of president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, submitted by 72 MPs, 2. Proposals for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies, which was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov, 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the election of President of the Republic, which was submitted by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was submitted by 53 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 7. The draft decision to appoint the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have a motion to merge the debate. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, based on Article 86 and Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that discussion be brought together on the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was tabled by MP Dejan Mihajlov and draft law amending the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group (4 and 5). Does the People's Messenger Deyan Michael want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 101, against 21, a abstentioned one, did not vote 90, of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEETING OF THE SWAET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA YOU HAVE received proposals from 72 MEETING MEETERS. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Vojislav Milajic, Igor Mirovic and Miljko Cetrovic on the draft decisions. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, chairman of the Committee, gave the opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee. I remind you, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there any other suggestion? No, I don't. ) Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following... I'm getting word from the secretary that this is what the Service is going to do. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions, noting that the National Assembly will specifically decide to put aside the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and in particular to put aside the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Does the proposing representative, MP Goran Paunovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 116, item 2 and Article 130. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been tabled by the Proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia and of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia, as the conditions laid down in Article 157 have been met. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make the decision by emergency procedure. The basis for decision-making is contained in Article 130. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure under which the abuse of the electronic voting system is carried out (Article 116(2)). Rules of Procedure. At a session of the 14th extraordinary National Assembly meeting in 2003, held on 22 July 2003, the National Assembly voted in favour of a proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The vote was public, using an electronic voting system. According to the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs - Article 80(1). The Constitution of Serbia. So, to vote on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, it was necessary for at least 126 MPs to be present at the vote. The same rule repeats the Rules of Procedure. "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when the minutes are adopted from the previous session and the establishment of the agenda, as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly" - Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. "The quorum is determined by the application of the Elctron voting system in such a way that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary units" - Article 82(4). Rules of Procedure. According to a computer copy of the national MPs present, 126 MPs were present at the session when voting on the proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It is widely known that a number of MPs were not present at the National Assembly session on July 22, 2003, when voted on the motion for a decision. All this unequivocally points to two essential facts: firstly, when voting on the draft decision of 22 July 2003, there was an abuse of the electronic voting system (so that there was a registered presence at a session of a number of MPs despite their not being present); secondly, that the number of MPs who voted at a session on 22 July 2003 on the proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank was less than 126, meaning that there was no change to the draft decision, the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure, the prescribed number of MPs, i.e. There was no quorum. Since there was no quorum, no draft decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia has been adopted. According to the Rules of Procedure, the vote in which the abuse of the electronic voting system was committed is mandatory (Article 116(2)). Rules of Procedure), even when the abuse of the electronic system didn't affect the result of the vote at all, and here it did. The cancellation of the vote, on the other hand, inevitably pulls the act out of force which is due to the irregular i.e. the unvoted vote. In this case, it is an individual act, i.e. The decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Therefore, in Article I of the proposal for this decision, the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which was published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, No 74/03. As the public raises the question of the authority of the governor to be elected in relation to acts taken by an illegally elected governor, the decision directly prescribes the validity of any acts taken by the governor, but also the possibility of their individual suspension. All acts adopted by an irregularly elected governor shall remain in force and produce legal facts, which shall give rise to reasons for legal certainty. On the other hand, the newly elected governor is authorised to put out of force acts by an irregularly elected governor, but these acts by the newly elected governor cannot have a feedback. Finally, Article III of the proposal provides for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It is not necessary to provide additional funding from Serbia's budget to implement the decision. The decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia has never been legally adopted, as its adoption did not exist in the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure, nor has the minutes been adopted from the session been adopted, and it produces legal facts. A whole institution, a very important state body, the National Bank of Serbia, is headed by a governor who is neither under the Constitution of Serbia nor by the Rules of Procedure. An extension of such a situation could have a very harmful impact on the work of state authorities, the lives of citizens, the legality and legitimacy of the representation of the Republic of Serbia in international financial institutions. As the debate is joined, on the basis of everything that is stated, the G17 parliamentary group plus proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take the following decision: 1), the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia (“The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia” No. 74/03); 2) the newly elected Governor of the National Bank of Serbia may take acts that put the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, whose choice is put out of effect; acts of the newly elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia cannot have a feedback; 3) this decision takes effect on the day of publication in “The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u58	Whether or not the committees in charge want a word. Committee on Finance – Mr Nenad Bogdanović, Chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Legislative Committee – Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ) Does the MP of the people, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, who singled out his opinion, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just like my predecessor, I'm going to have to read this, because it's a little more complicated matter, I admit; unfortunately, it wasn't complicated for those who were proposing illegal acts. There is no dispute that in voting for the election of Governors of Ms. Kori Udovici, what happened happened and that, after all, has been admitted and we have come to a situation today on the Finance Committee to get as a proposal and for this assembly something that has passed what happened that day. So this proposal brings practical legal violence to its peak. And why is that? The basic constitutional principle in all democracies, I will now read in the same way as my predecessor, is the principle of legal certainty. It is also guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The principle of legal certainty has been established in order to protect third-party security persons, so all those who have been born and final legal acts, whether laws or any other decision taken by parliament. The quorum issue shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work and within a certain time limit. The annulment of any act, decisions, law passed by the earlier parliament would be a dangerous precedent, not only to violate the principle of legal certainty, but also to deny the fundamental principle of democracy. I agree, it's not the first time, and it's always bad. Whoever's doing it, whatever coalition, whatever variant, it's always bad. What would be created as a possibility for each parliamentary group, political party or more at a certain point to question the quorum for some earlier act, law, election decisions and such. This would violate many institutions, as on purpose or by chance, as some have already worked here, could raise the question of the election and constitution of many institutions elected by the National Assembly under the Constitution. (DushanProrokovic throws out of place, but he doesn't understand. () You are rude, but I will continue, you have the right to be rude, for no one is clearly warning you not to be rude. There could be a question of the validity of many laws at a time when it will suit one of the parliamentary groups or political parties. Legal consequences of repealing the law and repealing decisions on the selection of certain officials in key institutions such as the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, other courts, are inconclusive in relation to the legal certainty and reliability of the state towards foreign partners. It should be borne in mind that Serbia's Constitutional Court has refused to discuss the constitutionality and legality of the decision to elect governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council and is a special type of act adopted by the National Assembly on the basis of its constitutional authority. I know it doesn't matter to legalists, but I'll keep reading. Some just talk about legalism, right. It should also be borne in mind that no court has declared itself on the factual and legal issues of the decision to be annulled, which I believe. Now I'm gonna stop there, I'm not gonna read any further, you have this material. And why won't I read any further? It is not disputed that you have the right to make illegal proposals, and ultimately those who are to plead will be declared. I know that when we took over the city government, we tried to do something similar and some people sitting in the Democratic Party of Serbia in this House know it. We tried to annul the previous Executive Board's decision to assign apartments to the City Assembly. We took 50 really bad cases out of 750, the previous Executive Board assigned apartments to those who came from the street. All the courts I've been talking about, the District Court, the Supreme Court, have annulled our decision and brought us back to a regular trial, with an explanation that it's impossible to do so, because it's illegal. This is what people who are doing much more right know, and today I have urged the Finance Committee not to do this, because there are many other ways, that even in a shorter time, this all ends, that, changing the law, for those who do not know, to make a change of law and that through the change, Kori Udovicki is allowed to change. There's another simpler way, to make a decision on forming a government, to sit down with Mrs. Korri Udovici, and she would resign immediately, as she said, and to set up the governor any way she wants. Why this is not done, why this is done by breaking the law, it's not quite clear to me, and there are various explanations for it. We will probably have a chance to hear about it in the future, and what I would suggest once again to the person who made this proposal and appealed - don't do what comes around your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. Please, I have been warned several times, both at the table and from the MPs' benches, that your time has expired, but it is known that I am tolerant to it and I am glad that you have explained your position, but please, not personally, but all MPs, we have all agreed in a pre-election campaign and I hope that we will show it in this assembly, that it is necessary that this institution be established really as the highest institution, but then it means mutual respect and respect for all institutions. Please do not give false facts about the Constitutional Court, which was an indisputable institution in the previous period, and we were all very angry that parliament did not implement the Constitutional Court's decisions. In a letter from President Natasa Micic, the Constitutional Court recommended that the National Assembly resolve the issue. Please, do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Do you want a replica? Excuse me, please, replica, Mr. Paunovic. I really didn't realize you were mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u61	On the basis of the report by the Finance Committee, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic should explain the proposal of the Finance Committee, which accepts the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the choice of governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I don't know if Mr. Bogdanovic is here as the MP or the chairman of the Finance Committee. At the same time, it might really be useful for Mr Bogdanovic to explain to the National Assembly what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u62	Please, do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Excuse me, do you want a replica of Mr. Bogdanovic? Please, one sentence. Mr. Bogdanovic, is it a replica? No, it's not. Then here's a sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u63	I would ask Mr. Paunovic to monitor the session a little bit better. I refused to give a report, I have the right to do so as president of the board, but I have issued an opinion and in this sense I have discussed here. So, I didn't do anything wrong, but slowly, they'll learn, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u64	Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we welcome you to forgive each other for your time on the grounds that you're running out of time, and I really don't mind you using a little more of this pay phone than the Rules of Procedure would allow, and I think some Serbian citizens are just getting used to the assembly atmosphere. And this item of the agenda is a sign that some people are just getting used to, and that some people who know very well what the National Assembly is and that it should be worked on knowingly participating in the deception of citizens in preparation for a government that will work again on the blackmail system, which means that it will take a short time. What can I say when Mr Bogdanovic reminded us of our three-year struggle in the National Assembly in one sentence, that this law is retroactive and that it should not be passed. Now, my Mr. Bogdanovic, you've passed dozens of such laws in these three years, and that's only because the Avengers entered the Assembly in 2000, and again some new vigilantes in 2004. Such decisions are proposed by vigilantes, not proposed by reasonable people. And the easiest thing would be for us, for radicals, to observe what you're doing from Parliament, to enjoy it. But it's not worth it, Parliament is a much more serious and sacred thing than you think it is. What would parliament look like if we led him this way? Whether votes were stolen in the election of the governor of the National Bank have been found anywhere. Clearly, the governor was chosen by stealing votes and there's no dispute, and that's called stealing. But that theft began three years earlier and was attended by the entire DOS. I have here 20 pages of a stenogram and everyone in the book of the SRS -- when all of us, since February 2001, have warned you about what you're doing with the cards, and you who are helping to undo this decision have participated in this. Do you want me to read to you how we proved it to you? Do you want me to read to you, Mr. Marsican from this pay phone I told you that Joseph Kasa had not been in the Assembly for ten days and votes, that Cedomir Jovanovic was not sitting in the bench all day and votes. And what the president of the National Assembly said -- you should have objected immediately, as this member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly (and that is not read by the proposer's representative until the end), he said -- "the vote is cancelled, identification is being made and a new vote is being approached immediately". It was the only option for this decision, not after a year, not after six months and not after four months. Why is this decision wrong? Because there's no constitutional basis. And, let me remind you -- all acts that can be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly, that's my objection to our new secretary, all acts must satisfy several conditions, I think it's Article 132. The first and basic condition is that the proposed authority, the second, must contain a constitutional basis, not a business basis. The session is scheduled according to the Rules of Procedure. Article 156 says all general acts adopted in the Assembly must satisfy the procedure prescribed for the adoption of the law. To make this decision, you must tell me where the foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is, not in the political climate, not in coalitions, not in the mood. And how am I supposed to vote to annul the election decision of Kori Udovicki in the Assembly if that's what a party whose member of the rifles broke into the National Bank just a year before Kori Udovicki is looking for? Did you ever remember that it caused some decisions that should have been annulled? I was the vice president of the federal government when we received letters from the National Bank, signed by Mladjan Dinkic, asking for medical supplies for foreign exchanges. We had a shortage of course back then. None of you think it's illegal, it's unconstitutional. A month and a half before the election decision, he signed as governor, as Jelasic presented on TV this morning as the governor of the National Bank. The governor of the National Bank is alive, hasn't been replaced, and you're promoting the new governor of the National Bank. What does that look like? Could it be pressure to make a coalition? We're talking about retroactivity. Why don't you say, if we don't cancel Cora Udovici's election, that she hasn't made any decisions, it's like she wasn't even born, she didn't do anything at the National Bank. What about what was done at the National Bank? What's going to happen to that? How much damage will it do? What about the decisions taken to ban some banks from working? Many funds have failed in this way to some banks, and the decision to ban a bank does not exist, there is no choice, Kori Udovicki. It's the easiest choice to attack Cory Widowsky. I totally agree with that. The choice was illegal. That's what you've been doing for three years. Three years without a quorum, you've passed laws and been warned from this pay phone, but in order to prove how you work, we've had to be taken out of this room. It is not for free that Dragan Marscanin, as president of the National Assembly, has insisted on the illegal work of the National Assembly. Now you're getting into the same situation. When you fight in two months, what happens then? What happens if this crush breaks between G17 plus and DSS. Shall we say that this decision to annul the election of Cora Udovici has been unlawfully made? When will Serbia be a serious country, when will parliament be serious and when will this Parliament be seriously handled? As long as the small coalition members give the president of the National Assembly I know you don't appreciate the National Assembly. I know you don't appreciate what we're doing here, and that's the most important job in Serbia. If a member of the Civil League, 143 on the DOS list, can be president of the National Assembly, if he can be a member of the G17 Plus National Assembly, you don't appreciate the National Assembly very much. You don't care, because there's no money here, there's no funding here, there's no sponsorship here, there's nothing but hard work, and there's still, hopefully, direct television broadcasts. What can MPs expect if they vote for such a decision today? Then what else makes sense in Serbia? Then it's all unthinkable. How many retroactive laws did you pass when you entered 2001? No one rebelled against it, not even the professors of the university. On June 12th, 2003, the term of office of some MPs of the Democratic Party ceased. The end of the term here in the National Assembly has been established. New MPs showed up for them. After a month and a half, there are no new ones, and those to whom the mandate has been suspended and all the laws and choices of Kori Udovicki have been brought with the help of 12 citizens who are not even MPs. If we put under the light of the legality and constitutionality of the work of the National Assembly, then there has been no decision taken in the Assembly since June 12th. Don't praise the Constitutional Court of Serbia, he's embarrassed. Why did he embarrass himself? Because first we didn't have a year and a half of Serbia's Constitutional Court, so the judges sat on a hot chair waiting for which political party the lawyer or judge would propose for the Serbian Constitutional Court. So you got a member of the Civil League in the Constitutional Court, so you got a member of the Democratic Party in the Constitutional Court, so you got members of the parties in the Constitutional Court, not the Constitutional Court of Serbia, so one...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u66	Let me ask you, Mr. Nikolic, if you're using for the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u67	I'll use another two or three minutes, and count as ten, there'll be plenty of replicas. Well, then one member of the Constitutional Court is one opinion, and the other member is another opinion on the same issue, on the same problem. You forget that the President of the Constitutional Court has been returned to the Constitutional Court: by repealing one decision of the National Assembly. It doesn't all start with our election for MPs. We were chosen by an MP before, and before us there was a government. Don't ever think that you are the first democratically elected, as I hear from individuals. That's not true. All elected democratic. As far as democracy was at that time, they could have been elected democratically. There's no cancellation back a year or two, the state collapses if you keep doing that. Then let's make all the decisions to undo, not just the ones that suit you, don't run like June before the ore. Today in Serbia, the most important thing is to elect a new governor of the National Bank. Grab the kid from the street by the hand, take him to the National Bank, show him where to sit, forbid him to make press statements, and he'll be a great governor, great. Just don't let him tear down our banks, don't let him shut down our banks, don't let him keep the National Bank's deposit abroad thieves, and then after that, as imports of certain energys that we don't have back and you'll have an extraordinary governor of the National Bank. What's it done to Cory Widowsky in the last few months? Is there any responsibility to her that we must change her now? You can ask me if she's an honorable woman, even though she's honorable, she wouldn't let her be elected governor of the National Bank. I don't think I'm defending her at all. She knew very well how to choose her. All of you who chose her knew how to choose her. Don't just move to Neda Arneric. The hundreds of you then knew what he was doing and each of you, and I see there are again MPs who directly influenced the legality of the work of the National Assembly, but each of you must wonder how much he contributed, both Bosko Ristic and Bojan Pajtic, and that Mitrovica from New Democracy, and I call now and the people who were not there, and the one who sat there from the Democratic Party-Pavlović, who carried the staff. You know who provided the false cards here and you know that only two bills by name and last name were allowed to sit in front of the hall when they were voted, only they had confidence that they would give you cards from MPs who weren't there. You know why that engineer left work in the National Assembly as soon as you came to power, when he was first asked to falsify information about who was present. You're all responsible, Mr. Michael. You've started it. That's what you've been involved in. Then you lower the quorum, and it seems to me the president of the assembly when he comes would be enough for the quorum, how much you missed it when you got into a fight. To you from G17 plus to give you one piece of advice, fortunately or unfortunately, on two committees I chaired as the oldest MP per year, so you know I already have the right to share advice: if you vote today, you will pay for the turkey. If you don't pay on the bridge, you'll pay on the pot. They'll charge you for this, because they haven't given anyone anything for nothing yet, so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u68	Do we have any other representatives or presidents? Mr. Mihajlov, here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u69	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, as we of the DSS have advocated establishing the Assembly, introducing order into institutions, so in the last term we have advocated and we have submitted last year's proposal to put this decision out of effect. Now it finally came to the agenda, and then it couldn't get to the agenda, so now it came and we thought this was the only way to put one illegal decision out of force. You must wrongly answer the law. In this case, the only possibility of putting this decision out of force is this one. The annulment of the decision is not possible, because according to the Rules of Procedure, this can be done immediately after the vote, and by the Constitution and by law, we Mrs. Kori Udovici cannot resolve it. If we were to initiate a procedure for her resolution, we'd say she was legally elected, which she wasn't. Mrs. Kori Udovicki was appointed, set up by a group of MPs who manipulated the cards and who appointed Mrs. Kori Udovicki as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. No one chose her. As some like to quote and find arguments in Spanish and other theorists, I would suggest that some of our Serbian theorists, Slobodan Jovanovic, who, back in 1926, said the assembly was not a assembly if most of the number of MPs were not present to it, and in this case 126 MPs. Not to look further, but to one of Serbia's biggest lawyers and look at what he has to say about the assembly. If you're looking for what others have to say and if you're looking for country practice, like the British Parliament, where a quarter of the MPs are allowed to vote, you can find an excuse for the lawlessnesss you've done in this assembly. But if you look at our theory and our practice, the justification for this kind of lawlessness absolutely does not exist and is not. That is why the only way to stabilise the National Bank of Serbia's institution is to bring ahead the people of the National Bank of Serbia's people into order, by putting the decision out of force. By putting off the power of this decision, we do not resolve Kori Udovicki and do not resolve the National Bank Council, but we open up the possibility of selecting the governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia in accordance with the law. That's why the motion for this decision is like this. We don't have anyone to solve. We're not talking about Cora Widowsky today, how she did her job. The decisions made during this period, for the sake of the principle of legal certainty, which is one constitutional principle, are hardly possible for us to repeal one decision, but it is necessary for the new governor to review what these decisions are and to preserve institutions that depend on the National Bank of Serbia, the Bank and everything else, monetary security and to act in accordance with these principles of legal certainty. The DSS will certainly support the proposals of these decisions and will support all these decisions that need to lead to the stabilisation of the National Bank of Serbia and finally start, such as this assembly, with the construction of democratic and legal institutions in Serbia and, to a good extent, forget the practice that has ruled over several years in this parliament, where there has been a vote without a majority, forged cards and that we all go together, in the way that this readiness is shown at the first sessions of this session, to build a new and tolerated parliamentary atmosphere, in which there will be no more abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u70	Mr Tadic, Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party also has a political will and wants to set up Parliament's legality and respect for constitutionality. I, too, publicly stated during the election campaign that there was no quorum at the time Cori Udovici was elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I am sorry that it was not said by representatives of those political parties who also did not attend the session. At the same time, we are in a legal situation today, because, coming out of law enforcement, we have come to the problem of how to get back to law again. Kudikamo is easier to break the law than to restore the whole system, the entire society to legal norm, in respect of legality and constitutionality. That is why I share the opinion of those parliamentarians who do not see the reason for the haste and continue to violate legal norms at the moment, especially if there is the will of most parliamentarians, of all members of this Parliament, I can even say, I suppose we can agree here, that we can all return together to law and make the choice of the governor of the National Bank in accordance with the law. In order to elect the governor of the National Bank in accordance with the law and respect for the Constitution, it is necessary for the existing governor not to be governor at that time. This proposal, which is based on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and the position that there is no quorum at all the decisions of the parliament that have been working at the time, can also be challenged in a legal sense, but what is a particular problem is that we do not respect legality and constitutionality. The decision of the National Assembly is legal, although it is not fully legal. That's a fact. As absurd as that may seem, that's how it is. As a football game or any sport doesn't cancel out because the judge has made a material breach of the rules of the game, a penalty has been awarded, but it is known that this game has been unfairly won or won by one team. Our intention is to get things right. I want to say openly that the Democratic Party wants to return full legitimacy to the choice of governor of the National Bank of Serbia. To believe full legitimacy, we cannot make a decision, we cannot vote for a decision that will constitute a violation of the law. What does this proposal mean that we received today from the G17 Plus parliamentary group? It also means putting aside the earlier election decision and constitutes an essential act of dispensing the governor of the National Bank. The Governor of the National Bank, to remind you, by law, may be dismissed only on clear and strict grounds: "that he is legally convicted of a criminal offence against the economy, unity of the market, labour relations, assets" etc., which Kori Udovicki is not; "to establish that he is unequivocally and unwittingly performing the function, i.e. due to serious failures in the execution of decisions on the organisation of the activities of the National Bank, there has been a significant deviation from the achievement of its basic objective as set out in Article 3. The law", which is also not the case; "that, on the basis of the findings and opinions of the competent medical institution, it is found that because of the health condition it is unable to perform that function", this did not happen either; "yes, eventually, the governor does not deliver any statement or deliver a false statement of the data referred to in Article 28. The law"; and "to establish that it does not meet the conditions for selecting from Article 16(2).". In none of these cases, it is not about Kora Udovicki and Kora Udovicki's resolution cannot be executed. What I am asking as a question today in the Serbian Parliament and our public is a matter of haste to break the law. The issue is particularly raised due to the fact that Kori Udovici publicly offered her resignation. It's the right way to go back to being legal. Kori Udovicki wants to resign, it equips our public, sends a letter about it, and thus we are in a position to make a choice for the new governor of the National Bank. But there's an incredible rush here that really asks us why, at this point in time, until the government is elected, it shows a haste or demonstrates its intention to take key positions in our financial system, in this society. Why is there an attempt to take the position of governor of the National Bank, which is a key place in macroeconomic policy and in the conduct of macroeconomic policy in our society? Why does this happen when it is known that the National Bank requires a legitimately elected government, which would be a counterpoint of the work of the governor of the National Bank at this time? Because in monetary policy, the position of finance minister is also important in order to maintain the stability of the entire economic system. It's all bad facts. It's something we all have to make right together. I see no reason why this moment is proposed on an illegal basis to change the governor of the National Bank, when all parliamentary groups have general agreement that the choice of governors should be made legally. I will repeat once again that the Democratic Party has made a mistake, I publicly say, in its parliamentary performance, because there has been a lack of quorum, a falsification of the quorum. I have to make an correction, Toma Nikolic said it was a voice theft. No one voted with Neda Arneric's card in the Assembly, she was in the parliamentary unit, no one voted "yes" and "against". She was the falsification of the quorum. Second question: quorum. In the first half of the 20th century in parliaments in Europe, the quorum was a presumption of their legitimate, valid and legitimate work. It is today, but today's parliaments in the world, for your information, do not insist on quorum as a crucial factor in their work. You can talk as much as you want to say it's different, but it's just not like that. I'll give you just one little explanation, so we can think about changing the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure together. Sixty MPs are needed today in the aforementioned English parliament, which has 650 MPs, in order to be a full and legitimate work of the parliament. So, and for decision-making, ladies and gentlemen, it's very important that you know, and that you show that it isn't, I'm just pointing you to the fact that you have to check. Today's quorum in parliament, in the modern parliament, in Germany, or in other Western parliaments that are criteria for democratic principles, is not the only basis of the institution's legitimacy and democracy. We do not have to insist on the quorum in the future, regardless of what this is Serbia. And we need to compare ourselves with more modern societies in order to have more efficient work and basis for making our decisions. Once again I will repeat: we, as MPs of the Democratic Party, want to correct a mistake made in the previous work of parliament, but we want it to be done in a legal way and therefore we will be restrained when this proposal is on the agenda so as not to contribute to the breach of legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u72	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u73	I think you misread me. In order for the governor to be elected, he had to stand the card of Neda Arneric in the parliamentary unit. Whether someone pressed a button or not, it doesn't matter. That's what I and the president of the National Assembly, both at the time and present, were having a debate, about how the monitor said "did not vote"; I argued at the beginning of the assembly that we do not have a "no vote" provision in the Rules of Procedure, but then I was too loud thanks to DOS, so those who did not vote chose Kori Udovicki as governor of the National Bank. And as far as this quorum is concerned, the constitution that seeks the quorum, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, was not a German constitution. Perhaps you could have defrocked the German constitution, perhaps it could have been applied directly in Serbia for a while, as all German was applied, perhaps it was possible that the German constitution could have been applied directly, you might have passed it at the Constitutional Court, but now to practice that there is no quorum in other countries is not a solution. But to take the opportunity to vote on the Labour Act, which was brought in with only one vote, if it hadn't been for that vote, there wouldn't have been a Labour Law, after which hundreds of thousands of people were out of work. Mr. Mihajlov asked that the vote be annulled immediately, because MP Novakovic is in Thessaloniki, so the president of the Marcican Parliament said - votes are cancelled; then some noise from the hall began, and he said - no, I only suggest that, I accept the proposal of Ambassador Sabic, calling for a session of the president of the parliamentary groups. We had a follow-up after the break and we learned that the presidents of the parliamentary groups agreed to resolve the Administrative Committee, that there were two lists, one by which Novakovic was present, one by which he did not, and all of this would have been a game if he had not reported to Miroljub Labus abroad and said - the reform law must not be stopped and it does not matter how this law was passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I probably remember too much now. Please ask me not to remember what happened in the National Assembly, and then I won't go out and tell you what happened, but this is how it happened, my dear D.B. Democrats. This is the only way it's ever been, and it's no different. Apply the same arches when you are in power and when you are in opposition. Now you're aware of how easily that line is crossed and how what you've been pushing your chests you have to wait for a weak and weak back.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u74	Before Mr. Dacic, the replica of Mr. Mihajlov, misread exposure, and then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u75	I don't think it's good to say that we in Serbia should look up to a more modern society. By the way, you're saying we're a back-up company. I don't think that Serbian society is lagging behind, Mr. Tadic, and I don't think we should be downplaying the traditions of Serbian parliamentaryism here. They are certainly not long, such as the tradition of British, French or other parliaments, but certainly not traditions to be annulled. Although we are calling here to the traditions that existed, which were in the past and the last century, which were and which were as they were, but are ours. If we refer to Slobodan Jovanovic, who is our most respected theorist, then it is something that must be respected. If the laws in our country are such, if it is said there must be 126 MPs present in the hall when voted, then 126 MPs must be present. The fact that in England, Germany or any other country it doesn't have to, it's a matter for the British, German and other parliaments, but in our Parliament it's like this and while we have to respect it. I see no other way than to put this decision out of force. We cannot legalise the election of Kori Udovici by asking for its resolution, because it was simply set up by a group of MPs, a group of powerful men or a Serbian government then. She is not chosen in this congregation, and that is why we cannot resolve her. Under the Constitution, this congregation can make decisions and this is a decision in accordance with the Constitution. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes this is legal and it is very difficult with the wrong and wrong path to find a path to justice and this is one of those paths that we must return to within the framework of rights, within the framework of the Constitution and within the framework of the law. The DSS will always go that way, no matter how ungrateful, no matter how much the president himself suffered and was removed because of it, only because he pointed out the abuse of parliamentary cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u76	Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it is clear that the last meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia worked and made decisions with the theft of votes and with the theft of parliamentary mandates. That's a fact. In addition, we have come to a crisis in the functioning and security of the parliamentary majority. In addition, after the alleged election of Kori Udovicki, as you remember, there was an outbreak of an affair to file criminal charges by the SPS, the launch of an initiative to replace Natasa Micic along with the Serbian Radical Party, an initiative to resolve the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is well known that no minutes from that session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were adopted at a session before the government's fall. It is clear and obvious that DOS, in the part of the rest of the DOS, provided the majority, along with everyone else, stealing mandates and stealing votes. After all, the SPS has filed criminal charges against the people responsible for this. For reasons of elemental decency, because Mrs. Natasa Micic is not here today, and I have heard that she is not here for reasons of personal nature that I would not talk about, it is not correct to talk about today. It's really quite clear that Cory Widowsky wasn't elected in a legal way. She wasn't chosen because the decision wasn't even made because there was no quorum. On the day after the vote, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic, asked Natasa Micic and the polling service. No listings have been delivered to us. The vote list, contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, was delivered two months later to the Socialist Party of Serbia. It wasn't just Neda Arneric, you all know that, especially the people who led the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. You are well aware that two SPS MPs have used spare cards, and it is well known that this is why you did not list all MPs. We have therefore filed criminal charges against Natasa Micic, the secretary of the National Assembly and against the officers who were in charge of issuing reserve cards. Of course, they're not the ones who are responsible. It's obvious there's been a voice theft. The basic question is, who organized it, who ordered it and who did it? Of course, this is just the consequence of all of it and this is just one symbolic act. The SPS hasn't given up any criminal charges. Those criminal charges must be exorcised to the end, not just this political-symbolic act, to put the decision on the election of Kori Udovicki out of effect. This assembly has ruled for at least a part of these three years, how long it has ruled in the past term, without most, with the theft of mandates and with the theft of votes, and that is clear to all. Also, this is not the only law and the only decision that has been made without the majority. You know very well, I think Mr Nikolic mentioned that, too, that the Labour Act was brought with the troubled majority. You also know that at that time Mr. Novakovic seemed to have introduced this practice to vote from Thessaloniki, and later it was inherited, so it was voted from Bodrum. Also, there was not a majority when the Lustration Act was passed. And for this reason, we have filed criminal charges, and since there was no majority, we all know what it is and who Branislav Ivkovic was working for, but it seems to me that he was not so open at the time of the vote, according to the document, sitting in the front row between Ivan Andric of the GSS and Siniša Mitrovica of Liberal Serbia, and allegedly voting. It wasn't Bane that open. If he'd been sitting next to Chad, that would have been understandable to me. Therefore, it is obvious that a number of other decisions are to be discussed which have been made invalidally and the question is whether they have been made at all, and which have caused major legal and political consequences. As for some who talk about legal violence from the former regime, I say the former although they are still in power, because every regime is only the future -- the former regime, those who talk about legal violence now remembered to talk about it, and everything they have done since 5 October to today were based not on legal violence, but on physical violence. They left out work, expelled, and then chicaned 40,000 people in Serbia based on political belongings. They imprisoned 12,000 people in Serbia during a state of emergency without a court ruling, based on police detention. They're now talking about legal violence. As far as the SPS is concerned, we believe that this decision on the election of Cory Widowsky has not been made. If she cancels out, it doesn't mean for us that we're going to drop criminal charges against all those who've affected and ordered this thing to be done to the end. As far as we're concerned, this decision is politically and morally correct, because it is necessary to bring down what was synonym for the way of ruling in the previous period, no matter who took part in it. It cannot be ruled in this assembly without the majority, by the kidnapping of mandates and by stealing votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u78	Replica, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u79	Indeed, it is my great pleasure to listen to the revolutionary speech of Ivica Dacic, in the name of justice, freedom, respect for rights, democracy, and perhaps it is an opportunity for us all to remember together many years ago. Studio "B" from that balcony recorded the introduction of socialist MPs' card in 1995, SPS MPs, and that was, ladies and gentlemen, the first public counterfeiting of voting, i.e. quorum. The radicals are waving their heads right now, confirming, and then the radicals were minority support in the socialist parliament... Did I make a mistake? I did. Here, I admit publicly, I was wrong. Now we're watching Hansel Dacic talk about how it's necessary to protect the law... (President: I'd like some peace in the O.R. ....................................................................................................... It's not "excuse" but "excuse," I warned you once. The next thing, Ivica Dacic says -- we need to protect our citizen's right to vote, so no one steals his vote. You remember 1996 and the Together Coalition, stealing in local elections. Radicals, you were stolen in the presidential election. Milutinovic did not defeat Seselj. But you agreed to the theft. So what's very important for all of us today is that we take a realistic look at our role in the past 14 years, to establish respect for legality, to try to respect this Parliament's right, not to wage a daily-political war on things that cannot be waged by a daily-political war and to make a decision that is in accordance with law and law. A democratic old woman is about to make a correction to this decision, but to respect the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u80	Replica, Mr. Nikolic, and then Mr. Dacic. I beg the People's MPs, we can get along, we can disagree, but at least we can hear each other out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u81	The man apologized nicely, and I accept that. In 1993, we supported the minority government of the SPS; 1994 and 1995, when the Democratic Party was that support, we were in opposition; in 1995 I supported Milosevic from Gjilan prison, Mr Labus, it was only so much. And they stole us in 1996 and 1997 in Kosovo and Metohija, when they put voices in the sacks, only then we couldn't make any fuss, no break in the streets. They had the support of America. America, and even now, it was better that bad people, that thieves, that criminals, that corrupt people lead Serbia, than that it is led by honest patriots who love Serbia more than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u82	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u83	"Democratic" cannot be understood to vote on what happened by 2000 in September and December 2000. You, Mr. Democrats, cannot understand that 80% of Serbian citizens who went to the polls have come out to vote against your government's policy and against the Democratic Party. That's why you remembered justice and order only when it came to you. As for Boris, Boris, fight, but tell the truth, and since you haven't been informed of what you've been doing, you'll soon have a chance to see what's been going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u84	We've completed a circle of replicas. We're starting with a registered list of MPs. The first MP is Zarko Obradovic, followed by Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u85	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, today after seven months, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has essentially made an attempt to correct one of the many injustices committed in this room, an injustice committed by the DOS on July 22, 2003, by making a false majority and abuse of the cards of the MPs, as it is said - by stealing, made it possible to vote one decision. Then, on July 22nd, a big slap was given to multiparty Serbia, slapping parliamentary democracy, slapping the rule of law. Believe me, it wasn't the subject of silence here either; it was just, you had the media, you were in control of the media, so it couldn't be heard, but the menacing that act caused abroad would at least be the basis for you to imagine a little bit of what you're saying about this vote. At least four, and no more than 12 MPs, with or without their consent, were involved in the theft. We, the SPS MPs, said the next day after the vote, publicly that there was a suspicion that the vote was not regular. We didn't believe it, the media didn't want it to be published. After only a month of learning that there was an MP who voted from Turkey, one MP publicly admitted that his partner had been abused, we informed the public that two SPS MPs were also involved indirectly because their cards were used in the vote. We could not support our claims for a very simple reason, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we were not in a position to get a voting list. The president of the National Assembly and unfortunately the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for two months -- the vote was July 23rd, and we received a list on September 24th -- refused to give us the ordinary document. Only when we filed criminal charges, when that theft was given the character of a political affair, did we get a list. And to tell my fellow Members of the Democratic Party there is no wisdom to see who used the card and who committed the theft of the vote, see who was next to whom he sat, see who was not present that day, and you will see who did it. And don't hide behind the big words, it's very simple. The D.A.'s office has all the data on it. The second thing is that the D.A. didn't want this thing to be examined in detail until today. We MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we Socialists, were in a subordinate position because there was a parliamentary dictatorship conducted by the DOS and logically we were not in a position to get that listing. We weren't in that situation to back up our allegations of stealing from the vote. Otherwise, for those who like to be smart, I will only mention that on that day, July 22, 2003, when voting for governor, for Kori Udovici, committed in our opinion four crimes were committed, and that – abuse of official office, unconscious work in service, counterfeiting and concealing a crime. You don't need to close your eyes in front of those facts. There was another attempt to conceal these crimes through the National Assembly's record, or conceal them, but you saw, the National Assembly refused to vote. When was the theft recognized? At the time of the election campaign and for the sake of the Democratic Party's election marketing, to expect better election results. This sentence was spoken by Mr Boris Tadic – we were informed, but we did not know. It is not possible, Mr. Tadic, that you, as vice president of the party, do not know what is happening in the party, or in the parliamentary group. You were notified, but you didn't know. If you were informed, then you should have notified the public when you were notified, not 10 days before the election, expecting better election results. That would be fair if you said so, not before the election. Besides, you'll have to tell your party whether it happened or not, because some claim that the event was not happening today, they're deliberately trying to explain that the theft wasn't and that the governor was elected in a legitimate manner. About the governor; we can understand that the governor, Mrs. Korri Udovici, on that moment, did not know what was going on in the hall; all right, that day she did not know and then she could be forgiven for her behavior that day, but that after a statement, the confessions of the MPs that cards had been misused, first one, then the fourth, then the fifth MP, said that they were not there, that their cards had been misused, it is not logical, it is incomprehensible that the mentioned lady did not realize, that in relation to that fact, even if she did not resign. She didn't do it then, and she didn't do it until today, justifying it, of course, her inaction, her state reasons. Gentlemen of the People's Messengers, stealing is stealing, and he who is blind and deaf to it, then there is no help there, then it is done fully consciously. Unfortunately, the example we had in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shows one boast that existed to anyone the DOS has always shown. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is standing in the way of this blatantness, this hypocrisy, the double arches. This is just one of many illegal acts, thefts that took place in the National Assembly of Serbia over the past three years. The cards did what they wanted and when they wanted to. God knows what happened in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the public doesn't know that, because numerous sessions of the National Assembly were also out of public presence, and journalists unfortunately did not inform the public. It's good to at least find one theft today, perform one audit. In fact, we are deeply convinced that we need neither the first nor the second nor the third, nor any Serbia, nor the ideological, but we need a country where things will be called their names and where citizens will be equal, where the laws will be applied, and where the guilty will be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u86	Replica, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u87	I won't take your time and I'll just say two sentences. First of all, I never said a sentence – we were informed, but we didn't know, because such a sentence is stupid in itself, and I wouldn't have the courage to say it. The other thing - we admitted our mistake. You, despite the TV cameras that recorded your theft in 1995, haven't admitted that yet. It takes you a lot, almost 10 years. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u88	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic, and after him by Željko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is a little strange that, in addition to all these problems that society is in, in addition to the high degree of social misery and economic crisis, with a large number of Serbian citizens who have lost their jobs, with a large number of unpaid workers, we as the first item of the agenda at today's session of the National Assembly, in this new assembly, are considering the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, as proposed by G17 plus. The legal precedent, in our legal system, is that certain acts, individual and general, are put out of force, except where this is an individual case in court practice, when a judge adopts a certain individual act to put an act out of effect. The DOS of course, when it comes to the legal precedent, in 2001 made a decision that puts the decision out of effect on the resolution of certain judges – Slobodan Vučetic, Zoran Ivosevic and others. Here, in this proposal for a decision, as a legal basis, you are referring to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There was no call for legal basis – the Constitution or the law. Why is he missing? Because there is no legal basis provided for in any provision of the Constitution or any law. Out of the injustices, zero decisions made, in any case, on July 22, 2003, which is not disputed and we all agree, the law cannot be implemented, it cannot be implemented and a decision cannot be taken to put out of force a decision that is void. It might be more right to make a decision to repeal a zero decision, and most correct, which we also told the Legislative Committee, is to pass a new law on the National Bank of Serbia. And, of course, you are already preparing new personal solutions, according to this new law on the National Bank of Serbia, to elect both governors and presidents and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. There's something else here. Here is, above all, a political moment, motivated by the promoter's side. Why are the G17 people in such a hurry? Whether it's some kind of revenge or not. You may resent me for showing too harsh a word, but I think you G17 plus want to protect yourself from responsibility and prosecution for what you've done in the past three years. Is it a protection against responsibility due to the incursion of Mladjan Dinkic in the National Bank of Yugoslavia building on 6 October 2000, when many gold, platinum and silver bars disappeared, as well as artistic paintings. Is your intention – protecting against the illegal placement of the NBJ foreign reserve in the Standard Bank in London, where the interest gap, paid to commercial banks in the country, was achieved, and the amount on behalf of the interest received from the Standard Bank in London, amounting to two and a half million dollars a year. That money's nowhere to be found. Where's that money? Whose pockets did he end up in? Furthermore, whether protection from the placements of dollar-debt reserves of NBJ in Wexsim, and the current Euroaxis bank in Moscow, where, according to the intervention of Russia's central banks in Belgrade, a warning came from, and contrary to the standards of the Bank for International Accounts in Basel, that such things cannot be done, that they are also against international standards – to place foreign foreign foreign exchange reserves, if they are shareholders, co-owners of that bank, persons from where foreign reserves are encouraged. Russia's central bank warned authorities in Belgrade several times that the dollar-deposit reserves in the bank are still placed in a risky Russian market. Certain profits were made, which ended with the financing of DSS and Vojislav Kostunica's activities through the EFT (Energy Finance Team) Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic. Maybe there's a close connection between the DSS and the G17 plus, so they, regardless of what happens in the meantime, agree and understand each other. Whether the G17 plus people behind this want to hide their responsibility for closing twenty banks, especially four banks -- Beobank, Belgrade Bank, Invest Bank and South Bank, where a large number of people, about 8,000 workers, are out of work. Whether Mladjan Dinkic wants to hide the illegal spending of money last year on his trip to Germany and England, when he paid about 30,000 euros, state money, journalists who followed him on the road. Could it be because of the illegal and illegal, without any decision made by the federal government or by the government of Serbia-Montenegro, membership of Miroljb Labus in the board of the governor of the European Bank, where he paid on behalf of SRJ membership in the European Bank 93m euros. I remind you that on behalf of its membership in the European Bank, Macedonia has paid eight and a half million euros, and Croatia has paid 12m euros. Or hiding one of the biggest robberies of state money by setting up a National Savings Bank and creating a vicious financial circle between the NBJ, the National Savings Bank and the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow. This is a special question that this National Assembly needs, in the coming period, especially to deal with and to consider. Is it possible that the G17 plus, in order to hide money laundering and financial malfeasance, on the route of Hayward to the Marshall Islands and the payment of certain donations to HVB Hungari Bank, in Segedin, which eventually ended up in the G17 plus cash register in Republic Square 5. It's about 19m euros. Is it a 150m-euro robbery on behalf of the transfer of the Vojvodjanska Banka's capital? Whether making a bill in the Netherlands is a motive for party G17 plus to get to the National Bank of Serbia as soon as possible and to hide all the malversions that Mladjan Dinkic was doing in the previous period. The French government recently paid 399 thousand euros in donations, as far as I know, to develop local self-government, and that money ended up at the G17 Plus Institute. Is that the motive for this party, which has tabled a motion to make this decision? There is a motive, and it is possible, in the intention of Mladjan Dinkic to hide the embezzlement and money laundering he made by making a kiosk - exchange shop, two or three years ago, in Serbia. It's a few thousand kiosks, which are made for change, i.e. Turning money. Did any kiosk in Serbia's territory at all have its function and worked on the issues it was made for. Many newspapers have written about it and it is possible for Mladjan Dinkic to hide from the eyes of the public and this malversion he performed in Serbia's territory. What I am particularly concerned about, what is least said today in Serbia, is – fearing, gentlemen, it is my concern and those people who are in part in the influence of the world's largest sect, the Santologist, who says to himself that there are 10 million supporters, a sect that has mastered the state and financial system of Albania, in order to master Serbia's financial and monetary system, precisely through the management of the G17 Plus, specifically through the Miroljub Labus. Please, Miroljub Labus is with people who belong to some leftist parties and enter the sect of trans-edetal meditation, and is close to the circles of Santologists, who want to have a decisive impact on the country's financial and monetary system. It is a great danger to our country, to our economy, to our national interests, to our economic interests, to our economic interests. This should be addressed in the coming period and considered these questions, for there is a great danger that it is just as I have told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. Messenger of the people Zeljko Ivanji, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u91	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've warmed up these microphones, and here I am honored to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the first time. I'd like to be Tom Cruz more, given that he's a saentologist than some sectarian, as you put it. Far from it, gentlemen, away from it. Let us, therefore, return to the essence of this problem and the essence of this decision that we are proposing today to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You said this decision wasn't constitutional. Article 73. The constitution says in point 2 of point 1 is that it is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to "bring laws, other regulations and general acts". This decision is a general act which puts an individual act, an individual illegal act, out of force. So the basis exists in the Constitution. This isn't a rush, this is a good start. We want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to begin its work on the right foundations, so on the basis of legality and legitimacy. That's what makes the legal order - legality and legitimacy. Let's consider the fiction that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so-called. The governor, Cory Widowly elected legally, as the great mags of democratic thought said, this decision is legally perfect, which essentially means absolutely nothing. Let's take that fiction into account, let's say, the procedure was, she went her own way, the decision to elect the governor was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", but let's not forget one thing: the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia never adopted the minutes from that session. It's the key to this problem. What does that mean? This is the message of the National Assembly. We're not behind that decision, so that decision has never been made. Although she has produced legal consequences on a great deal of sadness, these consequences are likely to come to our attention very quickly. Now is the right time for the National Assembly to be in a new assembly, which is legitimate - that will can be both this and that, it is expressed directly - to stand in the way of the illegalities of the previous National Assembly and to protect the interest of citizens who are threatened by making an illegal decision on the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. Unfortunately, the decision, as I said, was made, produced legal consequences, and made the decision by the minister of mining and energy by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Also, I want to say one more thing. The government's choice, what does that have to do with the governor's choice, has absolutely nothing to do with it. This preservation of the independence of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the basic principle on which the National Bank of Serbia should operate, has absolutely nothing to do with the government. One more thing, Mrs. Udovici said the other day -- the National Bank of Serbia must not be the subject of political trade. That's exactly why we're making these decisions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u92	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before any other fellow MP comes out for this pay phone, I'd like to remind him that he's not talking nonsense about the decision to appoint Cora Widowsky as governor. There is, and how, otherwise, you wouldn't be trying to undo it in a certain way now. In the last term, in which I was also a people's messenger, everything and everything was stolen. It wasn't just voices, it was also stealing parliamentary mandates, various abuses and counterfeiting, etc., not to mention. However, I had hoped that with the new assembly, this particular manner would cease and where the Assembly would begin to work in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I guess I was wrong in that hope of mine. Now we have a decision on the agenda that the Assembly is about to annul. One decision, which was undeniably made in a way that was not foreseen by the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Although we do not have an official view of the relevant state authorities, it is one fact, the fact is that the decision was also published in the "Official Messenger" and produced certain legal consequences. Now I can say, false moralists, who are calling for voice theft in the congregation, one such decision wants to be annulled. I suppose we Serbian radicals would have the right to seek such decisions and that we are the first to cancel such decisions. We first warned from this pay phone that voices were being stolen in the congregation, that cards were being misused, and no one was paying attention. I was one of the first MPs to point to the then-president of the National Assembly, Dragan Masricanin, to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to the violation of a member who refers to the way the MPs vote. I can't remember the name of my colleague who abused two or three cards, sat alone and voted for three more MPs. Mr. Chairman didn't even consider it then. He did not ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to be declared even by the congregation. Now, all of a sudden, I see moralists saying, there's been theft and that decision needs to be lifted. I would just like to go back to one part, there was talk about it already when the famous Labour Act was passed, which, in any case, since it started to apply, has produced many more serious legal and practical consequences for the population, citizens and workers of this country. Then, it is said now, Mr Miroljub Labus, then a member of the G17 Institute, a member of the Democratic Party, said it doesn't matter how the reform law was passed, it is important that it was passed, even if it was voted in favour of the Thessaloniki law. In addition to the Radical Party, he then took advantage of his right as National Assembly President Dragan Marscanin to object as something, just as, in the end, to resign, and that was the reason for a political marketing DSS to appear as the savior of the people from the rest of the DOS. And that's not true, because if you were really rescuers, the first thing that you, Mr. Michael, should say is that you're asking to repeal the Labour Act. It was the first more serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and the theft of votes, and you keep your mouth shut about it. You are now pleading about Kora Udovicki, as if it were very important who she is and what she is at the moment, when the question of the day when she will be replaced. This is obviously a decision that is exclusively politically-revengefully motivated. There's no other excuse for this procedure. First, the congregation is asked to annul its decision, although it is not possible under the law. The Assembly is required to break the law itself. Is there anything worse in any parliament? I don't think there is. All those of you who understand each other in the Rules of Procedure and in law will agree with me. Furthermore, when it comes to the National Bank of Serbia, none of you G17 gentlemen asked the question of how your governor came to the head of the National Bank of then-Yugoslavia. It was an incursion into the premises, for a month and a half, represented the then National Bank of Yugoslavia without any legal basis, and even spent foreign reserves of the then National Bank of Yugoslavia on the orders of some crisis headquarters. Did you undo those decisions, and if you undo them, can you repay that money? This is an unscrupulous and incorrect way, so don't let anyone think the SRS defends Kori Udovici, we know well, and in this assembly we felt this terror of the majority. However, this congregation and at least this assembly should break up with this manipulation and violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It is the only way that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the representative of the most legislative government, finally begins to function in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has Professor Nikola Milosevic, and let the MP Igor Mirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u95	Dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, honourable MPs, and you who listen to me and you who do not listen to me, allow me first of all a methodological note. I don't think it's good to get into the motives of the one who's suggesting something here, because it doesn't matter who said something, it matters what he said. One shrink says that if some schizophrenic says there are two and two fours, that doesn't mean they're five. You can't refute his statement by showing, probably a relevant diagnosis of a competent psychiatrist. Therefore, I will stick only to what is subject to the agenda and only to what someone has suggested, not to the motives for which he did so. What I'm holding in my hands here is a paper from which all the arguments we've made in public, and also in this assembly heard, in favour of the defence decision by which Kori Udovicki became governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It's a comprehensive text from a Spanish doctor's pen. I'll read you one key sentence from him. It reads: "The subsequent dispute of the decision taken in parliament due to the lack of quorum is not legally possible, above all because this, like the adoption of retroactive laws, would be contrary to the principle of legal certainty." If only this assembly had made a decision by which the quorum would have been necessary to vote on a position of this assembly, therefore, that such a decision had not existed before when Kori Udovici was elected governor of the National Bank, then that would mean that the law here is being applied retroactively. It does not mean any retroactive application of the law, if it indicates that the law which, when a decision was made, was not respected, but violated. The decision is made either under some law or unlawfully, and this is a decision that has been unlawfully taken, based on one law that should have been respected. Something else would already be if such a decision had been made on the basis of some technical error in the electronic vote, and something else is quite different when it was made, it is a public secret and does not need to be proved, based on the abuse of parliamentary cards. There are laws that apply to that too and that were in force at that time, which apply in every democratically regulated state and will not be retroactively applied any law if it is tried on the basis of a violation of some elementary legal norms. Any abuse of parliamentary cards is, like any counterfeit, a criminal offence and subject to prosecution. Therefore, it is not about jeopardising legal certainty, because legal certainty is not threatened by repealing illegal decisions, but rather by ensuring legal certainty by repealing illegal decisions. Let me ask you a question. This text here, which has over 20 densely printed pages of a large format, that great friend of ours from Spain certainly didn't, people say, work for free, but for good money. Of course, it was not for free that the translator of this text worked in Serbian, and it was certainly paid to whoever, otherwise, translated our relevant documents, such as the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for the purposes of this gentleman. Now you'd have to ask yourself which cash register. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if that's the state's register, then let us ask ourselves who allowed it and on what grounds to finance one of these endeavors by this doctor of legal science. One of our lawyers, by the way, used to say, "We, the lawyers, are like tailors, as they say, we do." Of course I don't think all lawyers are tailors. The largest number of lawyers honorably carry out their duties, but I'm afraid that a gentleman from Spain, who teaches us how to respect congregation principles, is not as much a lawyer as a tailor. Let me draw your attention that Mrs. Widowsky's case has its own moral plane. In the whole world, resignation is considered an essential moral obligation for anyone involved in public work. It will not be that the resignation, as one of our famous liberals, Mr. Mihajlovic said, is "a cowardly act". It's more like it's an act of public moral responsibility. And not just any resignation. We have heard here that Mrs Udovici has resigned, but as you know, there are two types of resignations: there is a resignation that is offered and which can be rejected and there is an irrevocable resignation; it is not offered, it cannot be rejected. And the irrevocable resignation is given by one who essentially holds to political morality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from here long ago, since 1945, the political life has been declared both a legal and a moral principle. Didn't Joseph Broz in his day say, "Don't stick to the law as a drunk floats." And isn't it now, once again, to quote, publicly said that resignation is a cowardly act? Therefore, if we define ourselves to declare Mrs. Udovici's binding decision, we thus contribute to the return of legal and moral principles to this political life. We've heard a lot about the need to reform and come to Europe. However, if a government that does not respect moral or legal principles cannot lead us to Europe only by chasing anyone in whom Carla del Ponte holds her finger.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u96	Mr Igor Mirovic, let Rajko Baralic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u97	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had another part when I was attending the National Assembly session, perhaps even earlier, because I expected that the new National Assembly's meeting at its first session, after a session with a procedural character, would discuss important life issues concerning all our citizens; those of the overwhelming, essential ones. In this, I was encouraged by the SRS parliamentary group, which, immediately after the mandate was verified, submitted a series of draft laws which are very much touching these and such areas. The law on planning and construction, the famous law on legalisation, which threatens to destroy the home budgets of tens of thousands of families in the country, because of the self-authority of the former DOS regime or the back of the DOS, or the democratic bloc, actually so-called. Democratic bloc, whatever you want. We proposed amendments to the Law on Privatisation and Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, and the other day when I received a proposal for a agenda, I see that the first point of the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. I've been thinking about how to define that act, and I realized that only by one professional definition can that act be determined: it's actually about the original accumulation of functions. Before the government was formed, in inter-party talks, when it was obviously the most important thing to do, those in G17 clearly saw that, as they did from 2000 to today, they had to be the bearers of one of the most important functions, and they had all the functions in the area of finance and banking, the functions of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. They were obviously conditioned, and other participants in the formation of a new government from the so-called so-called government. the democratic bloc's further activities with today's resolution, in fact by putting aside the power of this decision by electing a new governor of the National Bank and members of the Council, which is equally important. This first decision has already made a clear distinction between the position and the opposition in this assembly. The only opposition today, and it's already seen, is the SRS. All others have, in a certain way, taken part earlier or today in this storm when it comes to the election of Kora Udovicki, when many crimes seemed to be committed, as well as today in the case of an irregular, of course unconstitutional, illegal way to get Kori Udovici away from the National Bank, to choose a new governor. I said already, the motive of G17 plus to hold all the functions in the country, especially these functions in the financial sphere, is that through the new governor, cover up all these affairs whose testimony we witnessed in the past weeks and months, began with the affair that Mladjan Dinkic made when he broke into the National Bank with weapons, until these latest affairs about the capitalisation of the National Savings Bank. The DSS is tasked with giving strong legitimacy to all these criminal acts, and that is its role and that is evident. The SPS was obviously trading. She gets the president of the National Bank Council today, it'll become her member. The SPO and New Serbia, they don't care. Just to form a government as soon as possible, to distribute functions and they vote for anything directed towards that goal. DS, there's not much to add, there's nothing new, they'll always vote for decisions that are on the other side of the law, and when you have such a clear difference over this first decision between the position and the opposition, then respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, you see in fact who is the true fighter for justice, justice and democracy in this country. In this assembly, it is certainly the SRS and its parliamentary group. The second big question, apart from this essence and this initial accumulation of functions, is whether a completely legal way to remove Kori Udovici from the National Bank of Serbia has been chosen, to promote a new governor and to cover up all affairs within a very short time. Of course not. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this proposal, which I will talk about a little later when I have more opportunities and when the amendments come into order, but it is clear from the text of the proposal for this decision that there is no constitutional or legal basis, which is, of course, recognised by the Prosecutor, because it is called on the Rules of Procedure, which is simply amazing, and those slightly more experienced MPs know that this cannot be a legal basis when one of these decisions is made. In the end, I want to ask you, the newly formed majority, which will of course change from decision to decision, but when it comes to such decisions, it will certainly be permanent, when you think about putting these other burning, important issues on the agenda, when you think you stop fighting for functions, when you think you're discussing the laws on privatisation, on legalisation of objects, on a law that should lead to a better, stronger and faster development of this country, to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. When are you going to stop making a bad upgrade about forming a new government, when you will admit that you are unable to form a new government, when you will inform all the MPs and when the acting president of the Republic will call new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u98	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not want to interfere with the political views of the SRS and, of course, what Mr Mirovic said, I just want to correct one detail: Mr Bjelica, who was proposed to the National Bank Council, is not a member of the SPS. Just like Zoran Bingulac is not a member of the SPS; as you know, he is a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u100	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u101	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected journalists, merchants and trade not to speak to those who can build a commercial academy, there are various... (Alexander Wolfie, from the scene: and you're smart? () Smart as it is necessary not to be a member of the Serbian Radical Party. It's nothing personal. We need to get some atmosphere into this. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, can you have your party buddies, yes,... Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I hope you heard what Mr. Wolf said. I'm not afraid, no problem. There are many reasons to seriously say today whether it is necessary to put out of force one decision that has produced a whole series of consequences in Serbia. The election of governors of the National Bank, the Law on the National Bank and the election of members of the National Bank Council has been secured in an unfair, undemocratic and way that is completely contrary to normal parliamentary practice. We witnessed one violence that brought about the consequences, the real impact that has brought about today's difficult atmosphere in Serbia and parliament. I remind you that from the pen of journalist Aleksandar Arsenijević's newspaper "Today", on July 27th, he informed the public that Mrs Neda Arneric was not in the hall when it was voted on, that neither I nor today had any problem with the courage to say it. "When he marries in a hurry, he repents." Today we have a chance to make it right. I agree with all those who today say it's difficult to do today, but I want to offer an appropriate argument. In addition to one electoral list, all other electoral lists, during the election campaign, said that Mrs. Kori Udovicki, the National Bank Governors' Council and the National Bank's Law were passed in an illegal manner. Only the SPS has filed criminal charges against all those we thought were guilty of this unparliamentary, unfair and incorrect event and events. I must, in one sentence, remind myself, however, that the chairman of the National Assembly at that time made the public vote a secret of state, to deny parliamentary voting groups, from a public vote, to directly prevent parliamentary clubs from taking over all those procedures that are at their disposal from the Rules of Procedure and from the law. Therefore, if three million people in Serbia voted, and yes, or by voting, it was declared that the governor was elected in an illegal manner, then today we have a moral and any other obligation to correct the matter. It will be the right parliament, national representatives are in parliament, only the people are the source and stream of power. There is no one but the People's Messengers who can sublime the people's will in this place, and he does not risk it wrong. Therefore, I propose that this matter be carefully, step by step, brought into a position for the National Bank of Serbia to get a legitimate governor and legitimate advice. The previous decisions were legal, but they were not legitimate, and that is the main problem. I appreciate the opportunity to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u102	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of the people, Ksenija Milivojevic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have already heard from my predecessors, will not support the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the reasons for this are indeed numerous. First of all, it is unclear how the proposal for a decision like this could have even come to this stage, i.e. a parliamentary debate, when Article 132. The Rules of Procedure, which prescribes all the reasons for the bill should be contained, which is based on Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are also accordingly applied in the process of adopting other congregation acts, as the first condition provides for a constitutional basis for decision-making. In light of the proposed decision, instead of the constitutional basis, "the basis for the decision-making is contained in Article 130. The Rules of Procedure", which means that the self-proclaimed constitutional basis for decision-making was found in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that the constitutional basis does not exist. After receiving such a proposal, the president of the National Assembly was obliged to do so on the basis of Article 133. The Rules of Procedure request that the proposal be settled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that it should be put on the agenda only after possible regulation. Furthermore, it is stated in the explanation that according to a computer copy of the MPs present at the vote on 22 July 2003, 126 MPs were present, and that it was generally known that a number of registered MPs were not in the hall where the session was held, which, in the opinion of the legislator, resulted unequivocally in two facts: first, that there was an abuse of the electronic voting system, which was known to the G17 plus gentleman, because some of these absent MPs had found a place on their list, in the held elections in December; and second, the fact that there were fewer than 126 MPs present at the session, i.e. that there was no constitutionality of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure to decide, so the proposal for a decision was not even adopted. If so, the question arises why today is not required for the National Assembly to determine that there has been an abuse of the electronic system during the vote, as I will remind you, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure do not set a deadline in which abuse will be established, but that only the vote in which the abuse was committed will be annulled and a new vote will be joined. So there is no statement in the Rules of Procedure on the annulment of the decision, but only the vote is annulled, and the decision has not been made. Also, why, if it is stated in the explanation that the legally taken decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia has never been adopted, nor has the minutes taken from that session been adopted, does not ask us to adopt the minutes from that session today, where it will be stated that there was no quorum at the vote in the hall, and that no decision has been made at the same time, but is required to repeal the decision, which the proposer himself says has not been legally taken. It also raises the question whether this is the only decision that has not been legally taken, which the newly formed coalition will ask us to cancel or request the cancellation of any other decisions that have never been legally taken at the next sessions. Whether those who live in public in front of cameras today will admit all their sins, which we may believe in their good intentions, but I'm afraid it would take us too long. Because whether he will remember the Labour Act that was made with the help of the Thessaloniki vote, whether he will remember the times when in the past meeting the Assembly's decision on the resolution of individual judicial functions means regarding Judges Lalosevic, Karamarkovic, Radmila Dragicevic and others. I'll remind you that the Serbian radicals, and then they criticized the act. As far as the text of the proposed decision is concerned, Article I of the motion for a decision is concerned, the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is put out of effect. Perhaps, for the sake of precision, you should add words – which have never been brought. The real purpose of this provision is not to repeal the decision, because a decision that has not been made cannot certainly be annulled, but rather the real goal is to recognise, i.e. legalising the anti-constitutional and illegal election of Kora Udovicki as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That this is so clearly said by another member of that proposal, which he says - the newly elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia can take acts that put the laws of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, whose choice is put out of effect. Further: acts by the newly elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia cannot have a feedback. Legally speaking, these provisions are completely unnecessary, because the future governor under the law has the right to adopt acts that will put out of force acts both of the current virtual governor and of the acts of all previous governors. So those acts aren't something that's immutable. Secondly, under the Constitution itself, these acts cannot have a retroactive fact, so it is completely unclear why the motioner even put these provisions in the proposed decision, but given that I have submitted an amendment to this proposal, we will say something more in the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u104	The People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojević has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u105	Dear Mrs Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen, there is an incredible impression based on these previous discussions, which is that it is perfectly normal to steal in the Serbian Parliament, i.e. it has happened so often here that it no longer presents an unusual phenomenon, i.e. it represents no precedent and it is terrible that it is so. On the other hand, the remark was put to question, or we suggest that the decision to elect the governors and the National Bank of Serbia's Council be put out of effect, and we remain silent about all the other abuses that have taken place in this assembly. On the contrary, we will welcome absolutely every initiative to review any decision by the National Assembly for which MPs consider them controversial, and we will absolutely support not only the review of those decisions, but also all those resources that can be legally and in accordance with the Constitution, in order to possibly put these decisions out of force or in some other way to correct the abuses, as claimed, which took place in the congregation. On the other hand, it's a matter of haste when it comes to the election of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council, and I really don't understand what kind of haste this is. An illegal and unconstitutional decision on the election of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council was made seven months ago. If seven months of haste, then I really don't know what it's about, because it's just amazing that from the moment the fact that a voice theft occurred in the assembly became a common fact, or when it was proven as such, nothing prior to the assembly's meeting has done to correct that decision, except, as it is said, no record was adopted from that session. So, seven months can certainly not be considered a rush, and it's probably too late to make this decision, but it's good to make that decision, so that at least this congregational convocation of its work starts in a legitimate atmosphere, and that's exactly why we're here. The previous assembly of the congregation with its last decision has completely brought down what little legitimacy remains, and this congregation must not allow itself and begin to work in a completely illegal way. When it comes to Mrs. Widowsky's resignation here, the moral question arises first and foremost: why didn't Mrs. Widowsky offer her resignation the moment she found out she was chosen by stealing votes? I guess the moment that theft happened, she didn't know about it, and I can't judge about it. A moral act would have been if she'd resigned then, and then that would have made sense. Now such a resignation simply can no longer make any sense. So what this is about is that we have to show in one legitimate way that in the Serbian Parliament, stealing votes, that is, abuse of cards and abuse of any kind not only is it not allowed, because it simply implies that it must not be allowed to be allowed, but that it is not a normal phenomenon, or that it is not normal to steal in the Assembly. Only by doing so will this congregation have the legitimacy that it can and should have, on behalf of the citizens who chose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u106	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia and all Serbian citizens have welcomed the presence of 82 SRS MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a Serb Radicals group of 23 MPs shot down the previous government of the Republic of Serbia. For three years, she pointed to the theft of parliament, the theft of outside parliament, all of what you did as promoters of the five-octobar revolution, the powders that broke into the state institutions with automatic rifles, and among them was former governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic. It is interesting what positions are being held today by representatives of a new party in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia without taking office, which, by the way, also has party representatives on their list, if it can be called that, which at the time of the vote, Kori Udovicki was in southern Serbia and they remembered it. Not after a few days, but in winter time, and the store was set up in July 22nd 2003 and per system – hold the thieves, they are giving us a proposal, completely unconstitutional, legally unregulated, which a young Serbian radical spoke of earlier, to put aside the decision on the choice of Kori Udovicki. Another political party representative who has claimed to join the government, but it is obvious that these others will not, because they have told him so, said that this is not necessary and that they were rightly Serbian radicals, because why would it, when Kori Udovicki offered herself a while ago to resign. That's not true at all. She said that at one point, and then withdrew her decision on the central information show, saying she would not be subject to politicisation. And all this is happening in Serbia today, after December 28th, when the respected Mrs Pop-Lazic chaires the assembly instead of the president of the assembly, because the SRS has 82 MPs. All this is happening today in Serbia when the SRS, instead of being, already now, responsible for power and its prime minister in Serbia, is being Tomislav Nikolic, with responsible and honorable people, ministers who are ready to start production, to reduce poverty, to make it as many employees as possible, and not unemployed, we have one single debate of former, future, who knows which coalition partners, from a political group now representing some recycled DOS. We've got some who came here with a series of happy circumstances. They wonder how they got here. They have a president who no one listens to, who ask or ask no questions, and who today are willing, along with you others, to vote in such an anti-constitutional way. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially you who are now staying here in the National Assembly on fire baptism, that on July 10th last year it was certain that Mladjan Dinkic, the leader of the five-eyed revolution, will be replaced. He then turned to him and Zivkovic, and Djindjic, and Djelic, and Bojan Pajtic, and the whole DOS click, which was once his coalition, for days saying that he was the one who threatened the reforms, that he was the one who spent the national money, but not clear to them in the whole story from where he took Aleksandar Vlahovic to those trips across London and other European metropolis. And you gentlemen today, especially you from G17 plus, that's what you call it, is that you have the same explanation as those who replaced your Mladjan Dinkic, that it would be very necessary to vote just like this motion for a non-constitutional decision, because this situation, i.e. the situation and function of Kori Udovicki has very harmful consequences for the work of the state authorities, the lives of citizens, the legality and legitimacy of the representation of the Republic of Serbia in international financial institutions. This is what you do, and you have entered as ambassadors to some minority will of citizens in the Assembly, instead of dealing with the current, burning situation in our country – what is the position of those you left without a job. Do not forget that a member of the Democratic Party, with your blessing and blessing of Miroljub Labus, the self-called Mayor of Novi Sad Borislav Novakovic, who was in Thessaloniki, voted, or you, with his card, for the Labour Act and after that you started with the lists for the shooting, started with the flag and other factories and left hundreds of thousands without a job. That was a normal decision for you back then. You had an excuse because you shared power, as these are now trying to build some new coalition block, grabbing for chairs, for functions, for privileges, so they say - no matter, the government has to be built, just to get us into power, just to get us into Germany's street. You had excuses for something like that. There are no excuses for all of you, no matter what your name is, the debut reform block, with the help of the Socialists, the new reformed left, as you wish to present it, with the help of these or those, there is no salvation for you. You are all the same with the citizens of Serbia and we are coming up with a situation where every normal citizen, and one who observes the National Assembly sessions, and one who lives hard, and one who is concerned about his future, his children, thinks only one right way – I see where salvation is, I see where the exit is, it's Serbian radicals. These are new choices, to dissipate these, to have normal people come to power, to discuss elections, and then, not through conversion – we are for this, but after the election you do differently - go out with your people, with your lists, without hiding, without lies, without deception, as we do, clearly, pure cheeks and pure hearts and tell the citizens what we are ready to do for them. You are simply not capable, however much your Western mentors pressure you, no matter how much the thorns, blackmails and pressures between you are expressed, however you turn and turn, whatever government you make, it will be on glass feet, it is based on pressures and blackmails. With the same pressures and blackmails under which Mladjan Dinkic was taken over and elected Governor Kori Udovicki. I, Miss Milivojević, do not need any video-bis to investigate here and show who was sitting where, because we SRS deputies and our head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, know what thefts have been done in this House, in some illegal and illegal way you have voted all the devastating laws, and the budget, and the Criminal Law, and the Law on Privatisation, and the law on lustration and various other harmful laws; the law on co-operation with the anti-Serb Hague tribunal, all the things that every normal man is ashamed of, and which is why every normal man thinks in the way that I am here, which is to advocate new elections. That justice and justice are in this country, not only would Mrs Pop-Lazic be in a position to call new parliamentary elections, because it is obvious that after two months we do not have a government, but it could be as long as she can call elections for the President of the Republic. So let's go in order -- host to Serbia's head, Tomislav Nikolic; we move on – the radical government; ministers -- responsible people; normal laws, employment, projects for Serbia. And not like this, we're back together just a little bit dressed up in some other suit, maybe a little masked, with a stake and a rope, they're the same, recycled DOS, around the new DSS headquarters. And you from the Democratic Party of Serbia have not been so loathsome at the election of Kori Udovicki, nor your President Vojislav Kostunica, or perhaps he is not. Just three days after the theft in the Assembly, on July 25th, while Neda Arneric, without a card, will do what she, sun and mustache in Bodrum, when Kori Udovici was elected, Vojislav Kostunica said he could enter a post-election coalition with the Democratic Party and G17 plus. Well, you from the Democratic Party are now out of their mind. Those from G17 plus need them, because they want ministerial chairs and Mr. Mihajlov and Mr. Jocic, you know, in the meantime increased appetites, so you see by the behaviour of the Martian that this is just a passing station for him. If he wanted to entangle himself as National Assembly President, he would leave the Assembly to be led in this democratic and proud manner by Mrs Pop-Lazic. But I believe that you will not be in a situation to make such a government; and if you make it safe, ladies and gentlemen, to whom everything here is colourful, beautiful, funny, until as Natasha Micic makes you feel sorry for the chairs and you feel uncomfortable, you do not have enough wages, diaries and all privileges, until the Serbian Radical Party begins from today to start talking about you again; who you are, who you are and no longer need to tell the citizens. [[Glasses – darkness. Jagor.]] They know everything. We will have, if not these extraordinary parliamentary ones, almost certainly, we will have to have, at least because of these legalists, presidential elections, to come from Tom Nikolic, and we will get to radical Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-17-0.u108	I suggest we finish work for today's work day. I'm setting a break by 10.00 tomorrow.
