ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-28-0.u4467	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 214 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Predrag Markovic, Boško Ristic, Zoran Micovic and Bojan Pajtic. Dear People's MPs, the National Assembly should move to review the third item of the agenda, according to the order of the agenda of this session - the proposal for a law on medicines and medical means. Since the proposal - the Government of the Republic of Serbia - has informed the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdraws from the procedure the draft laws on medicines and medical means, which have been given to you, and since this is the last item of the agenda of this session, I find that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda and, in accordance with Article 81(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 28 May 2004, at 15.25 p.m., as the day for voting on the agendas of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2004. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. For 143, against 67, five of the 215 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the bill, MP George Mamula, in principle, withdrew amendments he submitted to Articles 2, 8 and 14. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 142, seven of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 143, five of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Bosko Ristic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 130, three abstentions, they did not vote 33, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 143, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 126, 76 of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 142, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 138, it did not vote 11 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 82, of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 20, against 125, 77 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 2o, v 127, did not vote 76, of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 139, it was not 13 out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 129, there was no vote of 8 out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, against 62, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trofunovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 126, 76 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 16 of the amendment, MP George Mamula, the Prime Minister, accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, against 94, five of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 141, 10 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 125, 76 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 27 of the amendment, MPs Bozidar Koprivica and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted the same text. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 126, five of the 225 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Triffovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 126, 76 of the 225 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Prime Minister accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 195, against 23, six of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 125, 77 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 139, there were no 11 votes, of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 5, against 123, 95 of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 59th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 143, there was no vote of 8 out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in general. For 147 against 73, they did not vote four out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational and Vascular Systems Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system in principle. For 127, against three, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the MPs Meho Omerović and Ljiljana Nestorovic withdrew the amendments in writing to Article 16; MP Branislav Blažić wrote the amendments to Article 40; MPs Miloljub Albianić, Nadica Momirov and Snezana Plassic-Stojanović, written through the amendment to the article. 38th and 44th Messenger of the People, Free Zivkucin, written on an article. 3, 12, 13, 14 and 15; and Milorad Belic to Article 58. At the meeting of the Committee on Education of the Amendments, the MPs Milorad Belić were called on by members 18th and Milojub Albianić and Marko Krstin on Article 18th. 12 and 36. During the search, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic to the article. 9, 15 and 40; Toma Busetic on Article 15 and Zarko Obradović on Article 32. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the People's MPs: Milan Stevović to Article 1; Svetislav Krstic and Milo Savic to Article 1; Arsen Đurić and Zvonimir Stević and Milisav Petronijevic to Article 3; Milorad Mirčić to Article 3; Dragoljub Stamenković to Article 3; Miloljub Albianić, Nadice Momirov and Snezana Plasić-Stojanović to Art. 4, 7, 20 and 37; Donke Banović in Art. 7. and 65; Branislav Blažić on Article 12; Nenad Lemajic on Art. 15, 67 and 69; Miloljub Albianić in Article 15; Meha Omerovic in Art. 16, 17, 18 and 51; Zoran Ćirković on Article 18; Milan Škrbić on Article 19; Vladimir Andric on Art. 27 and 58; Dragoljub Kojčića in Art. 36th and Milorad Belic on Article 49th. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, versus 125, the Union voted 74 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 129, 12 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, there was no vote of 10, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Rankic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 127, it did not vote 13 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 126, there was no vote of 78, of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 131, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 126, 76 of the 211 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 125, 80 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 82, out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 129, six of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 122, 79 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 123, 77 of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 125, they did not vote 72 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 127, it was not 11 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 6a after Article 6. National MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 125, no 77 votes, of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 122, 71 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, it did not vote seven out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. It doesn't say here, I hear he's been withdrawn, but it looks like he's late. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 109, he did not vote 24, out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 123, three abstentions, 75 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 122, 77 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 121, the vote was not 13 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, there were no 11 votes, out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 76, of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 123, it was not 13 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 125, there was no vote of 64, of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 126, they did not vote 63 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 125, there was no vote of 10, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 123, she did not vote six out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, five out of 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 106, two of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 118, two abstentions, 74 of the 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 125, it did not vote seven out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, they did not vote three out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, they did not vote three, of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 61, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 120, two abstentions, they did not vote four, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 127, they did not vote four out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 128, 70 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 127, there was no vote of 8 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 5, against 126, 69 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 127, it was not 68, of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 5, against 126, 68 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, there was no vote of 8 out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 128, it did not vote 60 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 125, it did not vote 35 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 127, one of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 115, of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Anita Beretic and Milena Milosevic submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 5, v. 127, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 126, two of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 128, he did not vote one out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 116, it was not 13 out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 33, against 127, there were no 18 votes, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 126, a abstentioned one, three of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 124, four of the 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 128, eight of the 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 129, 64 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A National MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 34th Amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 126, seven out of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 127, there was no vote of 70, of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 128, it did not vote 71, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 128, there was no vote of 66, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Martic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 127, no vote was made by 65, out of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, seven out of 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 127, 67 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Gajic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 126, there were no votes of eight, of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, there was no vote of 8 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, there was no vote of 8 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 125, it did not vote 72 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 122, he did not vote 71, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Penezic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 123, 10 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 125, there were no votes of 68, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six against 117, four abstentions, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 125, there was no vote of five, of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 127, there were no 11 votes, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Jovanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 125, they did not vote 72 out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 5 against 125, the Union voted 71 out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 126, 9 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragore Hiber. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 126, 12 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 126, four out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 125, there were no 69 votes, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 126, there was no vote of 65, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 128, 62 of the 198 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 128, 64 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 126, 67 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 126, 68 of the 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 70th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milena Milosevic and Milan Veselinovic. The Committee on Education and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 125, two abstentions, four of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in general. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. Please, a little more patience, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and we have to declare it. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 24 May 2004 at 16.27 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 86(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 70, against 122, there are not three votes, of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, at a session on 24 May 2004 at 16.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 80(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 68, against 122, there are not three votes, of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 26 May 2004, at 11.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 80(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 67, against 121, there are four votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 26 May 2004, at 11.35 p.m., and MP Gašo Knezevic, at 11.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. In five, against 119, there was no vote of 66, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 27 May 2004, at 13.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 221. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. In four, against 121, 64 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Milan Stanimirovic, at a session on 27 May 2004, at 21.35 p.m., pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure on how to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For three, against 121, 63 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned Rule of Procedure has not been injured. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic, at a session on 28 May 2004 at 3.55, pointed to a violation of Article 100, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 164, against 23, two of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
