ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6472	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards from the Parliament's unit. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Zoran Mićovic, Goran Knezevic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Išpanović Istvan, Goran Jakšić, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Vladan Vukicevic, Dusan Mrvos and Dejan Rajcic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Resolution on the ban on withdrawal or withdrawal from a lawsuit brought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the Member States of the NATO Pact for damages committed during the bombing in 1999. Would any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? No, I don't. ) In accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP Boris Karaicic, and let the MP Branca Stojanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6473	Dear colleagues, the topic is really very serious, and we will not, unless the Constitution is a subject soon, have a more difficult topic to discuss, a topic with more emotions, and I believe the heavy memories that come, when it comes to many things. Before we engage in considering this subject, I must say that I am really very dissatisfied with the way the debate was held yesterday. There were a lot of references and the debate was conducted in a way that looked too much like a way of communication from five years ago. I'm sure of one thing, there are no traitors here in this room. There may be better and worse people, better and bad politicians, honest and less honest, but surely there are no traitors. I think that such communication makes it difficult for us to conduct the debate and makes it difficult for us to come up with solutions that will be best for this country. Before I say anything more, I would like to remind you that the argument – that the resolution that took place on the agenda because of Vuk Draskovic and his statement is actually partly correct. It is true that some of the eight countries, which we have sued, have asked us to plead on this issue. They asked for it, of course, from a man who, in a way, was authorized. I agree with his statement being incorrect and clumsy. It is not good for the foreign minister to take the right, whatever his name is, to interpret the country's position on such an important issue. But those countries sought our position and asked whether you were staying in the cause or withdrawing it. That's why, as Parliament, we have to make a statement. I haven't met one person in five years, as you probably have, who used another word, except aggression, from academics to high school kids. Everyone agreed it was aggression. If that's the case, then the state that suffered from aggression and who was attacked remains nothing but to use law and justice in a lack of force, like when a bully on the street attacks a weaker, child, woman or man, that attacked doesn't have anything left to do but sue the court. There was no other way for us to do that than to sue those eight countries. I'm not getting into whether the outcome is already known or not, but I think this is quite clear. If that's the case, then we need to discuss this resolution in two ways. First, that this congregation is competent to discuss it. She's not in charge of deciding. Indeed, only the Council of Ministers is in charge, especially those who support the community of states should keep that in mind. Of course, no one can deny the position of this assembly and deny Serbia's position. No one will have so much courage and immorality to do otherwise if this assembly, with a large majority of votes or unanimously, if it can, say - no, we are against withdrawing this suit. But it's one thing to be against withdrawing the suit, and the other to ban the next assembly, any assembly of parliament, from withdrawing this lawsuit. That term, that word really presents a problem. That's why the three NDS MPs cannot vote for this resolution. We'll be held back. So to ban the withdrawal of the suit means that this assembly of parliament, if it so decides, prejudges state interests in the next 10, 20 or 50 years. In two years' time, it might be a state interest to withdraw that lawsuit. There may be such circumstances that winning for this country will be greater than losing. How do we know that? We would have brought the next assembly of parliament or the next assembly of the Council of Ministers into the situation if it had to violate the resolution or change the decision of the assembly today's decision to do so. I repeat, the term – ban is not the happiest term and it would be good to find a solution that avoids this formulation. Of course, when I said that the Serbian Parliament is competent to discuss this, it is indeed competent in what is political, which is that Serbia suffered the most damage during those attacks. The first soldier, who unfortunately lost his life in Montenegro, was from Belgrade. All those people who, in some ways, suffered damage, directly or indirectly, were largely tied to Serbia. As a result, this congregation has a right, and it has an obligation to talk about it. But the decision can only be made in the light of the recommendation, that is, the attitude that should be binding on the Council of Ministers on how to decide. In those 78 days, there was no greater unity between parties and parties, even if I don't remember it. It was part of a false unity out of fear of the then government, and it was largely sincere. I call upon you to achieve such unity again, at least in this matter, because it will be a very clear message. I urge you to consider together whether, however we choose, we will have enough good understanding to be the subject of debate in a few months, when we discuss the accession to the Partnership for Peace, if we behave like we did five years ago. Today, we need to ask ourselves why we were isolated five years ago, alone, why did we experience NATO practicing our weapons on us for the first time? We weren't alone in Europe, especially in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6474	Mr. Karaicic, take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6475	I'm sorry, I'll only talk for half a minute. In Greece, in all major cities: Athens, Thessaloniki, Pataya and so on, demonstrations were held with 20,000 people, much more than there were in Belgrade. People have very, very sober, sharp, kind and friendlyly supported both our people, and this country, and not any government. In Thessaloniki, a woman took her Mercedes out in front of a tank so that the tank wouldn't set foot on our territory. I ask you which of us would do it for his own, without speaking of any other land. On this occasion, as an MP, I thank these people. Let us remain a doctrine so that no more politics may be such that the whole world turns against us, but rather, we act so as not to be the ones exposed to the attacks of great forces. Thank you. [[Applause to a few MPs.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6476	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6477	People's MPs, I understand that the speaker can be even contradictory about this point, because it's really hard to say, "I'm against withdrawing the suit, but I'm against this resolution." However, if, five years ago, Serbia, its authority, anyone who deserved such sanctions and bombings, the citizens of Greece would not have defended us. That's obvious. They were defending us because we weren't guilty of anything. Just because we had sanctions doesn't mean we deserved it. It's not true that NATO bombed us for the first time. Before that, seven or eight years ago, NATO bombed Iraq. It's not true that they tried that weapon on us for the first time, it's even absolutely incorrect. It's a good thing you're all pleading against withdrawing the suit, no matter how you vote. This is what the public has been informed of. If that stays, after this session, that's enough. It is incorrect to make this binding for all time on Serbia. About that, you have to read a little bit of the book. The capacity of this assembly is to order those she has chosen, otherwise she will replace them. This assembly meeting cannot say to order what the next assembly will do. The congregation is always a people. It has happened, since you came to power, that a congregation has annulled the decisions of the previous assembly and said that it wasn't the National Assembly, that some judges have chosen, that some judges have resolved, we cancel. That's unimaginable. It is not possible for this congregation, by adopting a resolution, if voted, to bind the next assembly. Then we'll have some new distribution. In this term of office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in a position like this, I want us not to give up the lawsuit, that any of the officials we have chosen are condemned because the government is in our hands. We decide whether anyone will be a minister or not. If the minister doesn't follow our views, he can't be a minister. I don't care about your calculations, how many of you are in the government, who supports the government and who doesn't support it. I understand when you don't agree on economic issues, when you divide bans and everyone cuts their own. You can already have government and you can behave differently. But this is a national issue. The issue of a lawsuit against eight NATO states is a national issue and no member of the government, any member of the government, must have a different attitude than the attitudes taken by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There have been enough speakers saying that we must not withdraw the lawsuit against NATO. Now let's see that mother's son pull her back. There are no political points here. You're all making points. This is a debate for anyone who deals with politics. If you have the position of your political party and the opportunity to present it, why are you accusing us of this being an opportunity for us? Everyone here is expressing their party's position. You have another statement from the foreign minister -- that Serbs should go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Are we going to hold a session of the Assembly every month to prevent some screw-up that some minister sitting in the Council of Ministers can make? Do you have enough power to keep whoever is with you in the coalition, and here I mean all of you who are making that government, you say to keep your mouth shut or to be punished when you say something that is not the government's position? Perhaps it is the government's view of the Republic of Serbia that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija go to elections? It can't be the position of one coalition partner, about such an important issue, so different from the government's position, because then there's no government. Yesterday I suggested that, I see that the previous speaker mentioned it, we rephrase it a little bit. Don't say you can't vote against this because of one word. Let's delete that word. It's not about the word, it's about whether or not we're gonna let the lawsuit go. Form it. I have now suggested holding a session of the heads of Parliament's groups. Let's make new formulations in half an hour. It's obvious that we're all against dropping the lawsuit, except for some, who went out for the pay phone and said they were against it. It's a legitimate position, it's not good, it looks like something completely different than defending national interests, however, it's an attitude. If we all want the lawsuit not to be dropped, let's make a commitment to those we've chosen or elected by the ones we've chosen. A member of the Council of Ministers has been particularly chosen, not even by this assembly, but by some who will choose him. It's such a weak function, and it can do a lot of damage. It is unacceptable for me that you are all making arguments against withdrawing the suit without us adopting something that will oblige us not to withdraw the suit. There's no room for duplicity. There's no room for discussion against dropping the lawsuit, because then there's no explanation of why you're against saying it. We are ready, Serbian radicals, to change the text of the resolution. The government is proposing legislation, so it's ready to accept amendments. We're ready for that, but show us we want to do it. Don't just say, "You don't need the wording of the resolution. We're against withdrawing the lawsuit, but you're not good with the text of the resolution and we're not going to vote." Have a little more confidence in the wisdom of the citizens watching this transmission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6478	Thank you. The People's MP Brance Stojanovic has the word, so let the MP of the people be prepared, Slobodan Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6479	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Socialist Party's stance on the adoption of the resolution, was made clear yesterday. We remain in that position. We also accept Mr Nikolic's proposal, if there is a willingness to change anything in the text, to work on it and accept it. We think it would be a good idea to adopt the resolution here today, in one form or another, by continuing to work as a Assembly that has always expressed its position, which has always been unique when it comes to the loss of the Serbian people and not only of the Serb people but also of the other non-Albanian living in the southern province of Serbia. All known, it is clear who the victim is and to what extent it goes unseen in Europe, at the beginning of the 21st century, the savagery of Albanians, who kill, burn, persecute everything that is not Albanian, and even those rare Albanians who have just said a word to live in harmony with others. Of course, the whole world knows that. What is this world doing? It has been more than five years since the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija by international forces, whose task is to protect the population and establish peace. What does that peace look like today? Hundreds of thousands of persecuted Serbs, killed and who are being led as missing, burned houses and churches, pre-wrought cemeteries, usurped property, there's no security for free movement, nor for life. None of the thousands of crimes were lit up and the perpetrators were punished. Instead of being disarmed, the KLA is additionally armed and under the control of NATO instructors organised as a fruit for military formation. After exclusion of savagery and crime in March this year, except for verbal convictions, little has been done to protect Serbs and punish perpetrators of crime and sanctioning the challengers. More and more truths of this break through the world, but unfortunately it does not disturb the world's power centres, where an unchanged picture takes place that in any case the only culprits are Serbs. Even when they're almost gone on their fatherland. It is far easier for great powers to find "a needle in space" and traces of new energy on Mars than for the boys in Gorazdevec and Gracanica. It is a picture or just a mere mere mundane, multi-confessional, multi-cultural peace in Kosovo and Metohija. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, was created after the savage bombing of our country by NATO countries. It's actually a direct consequence of that vandal act. Let us ask, again and clearly, is there a United Nations Security Council decision on the bombing of Yugoslavia, which has not committed aggression on any other country? Who, and based on which, determined the facts of the so-called so-called A humanitarian disaster? What does a full duck look like, in the light of all and then known facts? Who was responsible for the lies who served as an excuse for aggression in Yugoslavia? With what and what right have people, soldiers and civilians been killed, destroyed objects? Who set legitimate goals, streets and squares, hospitals, schools, entertainment sites, houses and residential neighborhoods, nursing homes, bridges and roads, factories and railways, energy plants, water supply systems, markets and fairs, televisions, refugee columns, cemetery, passenger trains and working buses? Who killed the population in the courtyards of the houses with cluster bombs and left forever to ours and to the young generations of uranium radiation? The merciful angel, in the image of witches and the accompanying devils, destroyed in Serbia what generations created sophisticated, from heavenly heights, precisely, deadly. The rest are permanent, yet insufficiently seen consequences for our life and life generations to come. We need to forget about it today, to forgive. We can't, and maybe we have to. We have to, and yet we can't. We have to, and we still need to think seriously. I think we need to ask the people. That is why this National Assembly should bring resolution, we must not just go and talk and promise in the white world, as current Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic does. So I say once again -- a document called Resolution, in one or another text, that's something that needs the National Assembly to vote, to bring and be binding to all people who, in one way or another, represent our country all over Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6480	The word is from the People's MP Free Zivkucin. Get Gordana Pop-Lazic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6481	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we from the Serbian Renewal Movement and New Serbia are now in a position to listen to many of the things we had, unfortunately, to listen to from 1990 to 2000. We are in a situation where things are coming back to our lives, which we believed would never happen again after 2000. From 1990 to 2000, so for a decade, we had the opportunity to be in power of those who, unfortunately, were the creators of our national disaster and tragedy and the creators of our country's solar system. It turns out, unfortunately, that in the past ten years, from 1990 to 2000, something that we didn't want to believe was happening all the time. Whenever we ask ourselves a question -- is it possible that this will happen, and is it possible that the government will do this to the harm of the nation and the state, and whenever we conclude that this is probably not possible, this is exactly what happened, and is exactly after these decisions, political moves, both nations and states pushed into an ever-increasing sunflower and break-in. We, I remind you, thanks to a consistent peaceful political engagement, and whatever political engagement, various phrases from 1990 to 2000, will remind you, drawn into wars we did not participate in, that we lost regularly. As a highlight of everything, thanks to this consistent peaceful and whatever other policy Slobodan Milosevic, his wife and their patriotic allies, were dragged to 1999, up to this tragic year for the nation and the state. He was Rambuje in February, he was the first proposal, then, thanks to this little mention of wisdom and above all consistent peace-making and whatever other policy Slobodan Milosevic, the first document from Rambuje was rejected, though the Serbian Movement had claimed that he should be accepted immediately, that he should be grabbed and that the disaster and the disaster that had been overrun over us should be prevented. What happened next? As a punishment, another document arrived from Rambuje. Thanks to that policy, the wise and all other policies of Slobodan Milosevic and his allies, the document was also rejected. Then there was something which, of course, was a tragedy -- there was an aggression on Serbia-Montenegro on 24 March 1999, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It's aggression, it's tragedy and crime. There was murder of civilians, destruction of objects, and we, the Serbian Renewal Movement, unreservedly, each, in accordance with our own capabilities, stood in the defence of the country, in defense of the nation. No one escaped from the country. No one missed the chance to contribute as much as possible to the defence of the nation and the state, because we claimed, it was quoted yesterday, and today we claim that it was aggression, that it was an act that no one normal or well-intentioned could approve, and even less to justify. On the upside, who is it that can say that aggression in 1999 is something good, something that was needed or something to justify. No, but we now have the next situation – today we are talking about the consequences of the 1999 aggression which, as you know, is the result of that wise peaceful, highly smart and infallible policy of Slobodan Milosevic, his wife and their then patriotic allies. So these patriots, with their wise policies, have caused consequences, and the result is the bombing of our country, the killing of civilians, the killing of children. Now, whoever brought us into the wars for 10 years, who ruined us for 10 years, both the nation and the state, was smart enough and for the period of that rule he said – well, now I'm going to file this lawsuit. A lawsuit has been filed. The suit has been existing for five years, it was filed on 29 April 1999. Today we are discussing in the Serbian Parliament what we do as a nation, what we do as a state. It is not disputed that what happened to us, it is not disputed that these data are what they are, because we have heard many times before about the tragic bomb balance, the tragic balance when it comes to the number of deaths, the number of destroyed objects and the disaster that has hit us. It's not a question, and it's not something to close your eyes to. But politicians sitting in this assembly, politicians who need to look ahead, I guess they have to predict what it is right now, in this relationship the power to do well for their people and their country. Politicians sitting here, in which citizens, I suppose, have confidence that they will make a wise and thoughtful decision, cannot and must not calculate with a digitron in their hands how much this or that statement will raise their own party ratings and how much, instead of the current number, they will have MPs in the Serbian Parliament tomorrow, neglecting the fact that they have done so to the nation and the state. Between 1990 and 2000, we listened to a variety of musical, quasi-patriotic passwords that many citizens sounded nice and pleasant to their ears. But whenever those quasi-patriot passwords were merciful, they were kind to our ears, so right away, we felt them on our backs very quickly, both as a nation and as a state. There was an ever-increasing sunbathing in both nations and states, thanks to someone "good" sensed that it would place what would provide immediate voter support, which would please people, regardless of what would do to both the nation and the state tomorrow. This has not been taken into account, these party interests are always party interests and these political calculations are placed above national and national. What do we have as a consequence? As a consequence, we have a state in what it is, that we are now in an extremely subjugating and humiliating situation on an international scale, that we are in a situation that can happen to us whatever the international community assesses and whatever it deems necessary to do to us. We have been brought into an unenviable position and today we are discussing this resolution, which requires a restraining order. We accept that there is such a political attitude. We accept that someone really thinks that and really believes that. But I will remind you that in the light of this resolution, as a reason for an emergency procedure, it states that the adoption of this resolution, so if we dare by any chance not to adopt this resolution, and I believe that given the newly created majority in the Serbian Parliament, this resolution will not be passed... Unfortunately, that resolution will still be passed. But not having this resolution can cause inconspicuous and irreparable adverse consequences for life, health, country security and organ work and organizations. Please, what an explanation! Great reasoning, enough justification to immediately realize that if we don't bring this resolution, there will be inconceivable consequences for health, life, functioning and everything else we can come up with. It's a really very convincing argument, and a normal man would think right away -- let me vote for this, if this resolution really isn't going to be produced, let's vote it out and that these consequences don't exist. In any case, people have come to the sense and say – whoever takes the actions contrary to this resolution is a traitor, but the words "foreign mercenaries" are missing, so it should probably be annexed here. A joke aside, if it wasn't sad, it'd be very funny. I must say, this motion for a resolution tells us that we should not withdraw the lawsuit at any cost and that it can bring about these consequences that are written here. I'm asking you, what is this argument that needs to convince us not to withdraw the lawsuit? What is this serious argument? What's that argument? What does the unpunishing lawsuit bring us? Yesterday, Mr. Toma Nikolic said here -- the fate of the lawsuit determines Serbia's fate. If so, I will agree with Mr Nikolic that the fate of the lawsuit determines Serbia's fate. Who is it that will take political responsibility if we do not withdraw the suit and if the lawsuit is dropped in October and who is it that in case Serbia is brought back into a very difficult, almost unexplainable situation, we say – yes, I suggested, we suggest that the lawsuit is not withdrawn, we bear political responsibility. In the last decade of the past century, without any political responsibility, everything seemed to be done and done harm to the nation and state. Whoever proposes not to withdraw the lawsuit, I'll remind you, he convinced us in 1999 that it would only take us a little while longer to survive under the bombs, just a few more weeks to bomb us and destroy us, that they were only killing us for a few more weeks, and then, when we put up with it, the NATO Pact would fall apart, and then America and England would be "the land of the proletarian", but that's all they didn't know, we'd want to tell them, that they would find out. The one who explained this to us, who convinced the people that the bombing had to be sustained, that bombs should be persistently suffered, and that the bombing would be extended, because NATO's pact would fall apart, which also convinced us, I will remind you, that we have won NATO. Here, we have a chance to remind ourselves of that, it wasn't so long ago, and many politicians from the then ruling furniture and the generals said -- we won the NATO Pact. They convinced the people of such nonsense, expecting the people to believe it. Unfortunately, part of our people believed that. Now those of you who have claimed that we have to endure a little while longer, so the NATO Pact and America will fall apart, which convinced us that we have won the NATO Pact, say - let's not withdraw the lawsuit, let's go to the end in confrontation with the international community, let's remain in that, regardless of the consequences. It was said yesterday, I remembered, that we should have some sign of state, some sign of dignity. What's that sign of dignity and what's the sign of statehood? So, I guess those who say let's not withdraw the NATO Pact lawsuit, likely that the International Court of Justice in The Hague has accepted jurisdiction and will accept the suit, expect the International Court of Justice in The Hague, when it accepts the suit against eight NATO member states, to decide which way Serbia-Montenegro will win the dispute against the indicted NATO member states. I remind you of the fact that this resolution is still a falsification, because the resolution refers to the withdrawal of the war damage suit. No, the lawsuit was filed for genocide. Therefore, one who insists that the action be filed unconditionally and unconditionally and that it does not withdraw deeply believes that the court of justice in The Hague will bring a verdict saying that Germany, England, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and Canada are genocide countries. They're genocide nations. When the International Court of Justice, according to those who advocate the survival of this lawsuit, makes such a verdict that these countries are genocide, then I suppose, if you believe that, the court will rule that 100 billion dollars will be paid in the account of Serbia-Montenegro and that will be so. I'm asking you, is it really possible that someone believes in this kind of event? Is it really possible that someone is trying to impose their beliefs on the citizens, force all of us here? Do you really believe that the court will deliver a verdict like this, that the court will appreciate what you're talking about? On the other hand, if we withdraw the lawsuit... And right away, we know that no decision will be made today to drop the lawsuit, we know that it will mostly be the opposite decision. We suggest that we consider what we get, make a smart decision. The president of the DSS parliamentary group yesterday found that withdrawing the suit cannot contribute to improving our relations with the international community. From this I conclude: suing and the survival of the lawsuit can help improve our relations with the international community. If someone believes that we will have our future relations with the international community, with the European Union and Washington, which should be built on mutual trust, on integration in Euro-Atlantic integration, based on this and similar lawsuits, and if we believe that we will enter the Partnership for Peace, the European Union, all these Euro-Atlantic integrations and that we will attract foreign partners by constantly confrontation with them and insisting on something we cannot fight for, then I believe that we are in a serious problem. So, what would we get if we withdraw this lawsuit, and I see that that won't be possible. We would get this moment of respect for the international community and the realization that we have broken up with the continuity of Slobodan Milosevic's policy, that we are no longer standing on the bumper and the disastrous international, anti-civilisation policy of Slobodan Milosevic. What we would get - we would get a wide open door in Euro-Atlantic integration and open the door of the European Union. What else would we get? We would get pressure on Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, because we did this act of goodwill, so that those under pressure from Washington and other strong international factors withdraw their suit. We haven't heard what we're getting if the lawsuit stays. We haven't heard any serious argument here. That's why this issue is very important, to say -- yes, we are in favour of keeping this lawsuit, we bear the political responsibility for the consequences of confrontation if this lawsuit remains in force, as we say -- we bear the political responsibility for this courageous political move, and let's say, my people, since the outcome is the same, since the lawsuit is likely to be dismissed, unfortunately, then we bear political responsibility, because we have misjudged and we no longer need to deal with it. It's not here. Political irresponsibility, political indiscretion here is promoted to the highest national and state interest, without real and valid reasoning. So I urge Members to call on us to come to our senses and think about what is in the interests of the nation, what is really in the interests of the state, and what is in the interests of political parties, what is in the individual political interest. Be assured that no one well-intentioned will accept our hand and our request for involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration if we stay on this. We have a chance to make an act of goodwill, by means of an act of withdrawal of the suit, a point on the international agenda, just until the International Court of Justice in The Hague rejects this lawsuit of ours. After that, everything we do has nothing to do with it. Respecting the fact that the court has already declared itself on 8 April 1993 temporarily, and on 11 July 1996, definitely, in charge of BiH and Croatia's lawsuits against the SRJ, we are in the hands of international forces, or international communities, then we have no argument in fact to fight for the interests of the nation and state. That's why I'm sure we should call our senses, say whether patriotism is concerned about the rating of our own party and increasing the number of MPs, or patriotism cares about the interests of the nation and the state. But we want to know who was saying one thing, who was saying the other, and we want to sit here after October and say what's going to happen, who's responsible for these consequences, what's been proposed and who suggested what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6482	Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Angelkovic, then Mr. Prophetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6483	The gentleman spoke more of the past 10 years than of the essence of the resolution proposed. It's been on the agenda for 78 days, not 10 years. Because you have a pathological relationship with Slobodan Milosevic, it is not being treated here, it is being treated in other institutions and please continue to treat it there. That's your problem. But that service relationship you're showing is completely double. I want you to resolve the matter of your position. Who was the first in this country to form the so-called. The paramilitary formations of white eagles? You, gentlemen, and Vuk Draskovic. Who first in this country and how did he treat those who bombed us? This isn't about patriotism, it's about responsibility. Would it be a responsibility when you come out here for a pay phone and say someone killed someone; he did, but for justice, because of your relationship with that neighbor, because of your relationship with that family, we don't have to sue and not have to answer. That's what this is about. This is about responsibility to 330,000 people who have been expelled, responsibility to 1,200 who have disappeared, this is about those 50,000 houses that have been burned down, it's about responsibility to those 200 churches and monasteries that have been destroyed and burned in Kosovo and Metohija. Your relationship shows that even after 17 and 18 March 2004, when we were bombed, Serbs would say that they were expelled... (President: Mr Angelkovic, I warn you, Article 100 of Item 2 - People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. This is offensive. Be kind, keep talking with respect. He refers to all the MPs. ) Mr. President, I'm personally hurt because I was in Pristina at the time of the bombing, while he was somewhere else. It should probably be explained by the gentleman to his president of the Barvarin municipality, his member, whose daughter Sanja Milenkovic died on the bridge, that he withdraws the lawsuit before the German judiciary against those who brought down so many thousands of people, where 15 people died, where Sanja Milenkovic was killed, that her father should withdraw the lawsuit against Germany where the dispute is still being fought. Then we could talk about a correct relationship, about what was going on in those 78 days and what was going on all the time of the bombing. It's not about genocide, it's not about genocide charges, it's just one point, it's about exorcising justice. When it comes to relations with the international community, it does not destroy the relationship with the international community, nor is it interrupted, because by that logic we would not co-operate with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who prevents us from signing this many agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina? You should. It also needs to be done with the international community, but justice is something else. Let's get justice out of here. If the other says he's not in charge, that's another thing, but you have to know what's true and whether someone has the right to some country and some people to bomb, without a Security Council decision and those competent institutions that have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6484	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Prorokovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6485	Thank you. Mr. Zivkucin, I have here a stenogram from yesterday's session and a full speech from the president of the DSS Parliament Club Mr. Milos Aligrudic, I found nowhere to find the claim you made. Mr. Aligrudic said something that is the DSS's position and I will repeat, which is that the lawsuit burdens our relations anyway, but not crucially. I remind you that both Azerbaijan and Tajikistan and Belarus have been admitted into the Partnership for Peace. Don't tell me that there are democratic systems, where Nazurbaev, the late Aliev, Lukashenko, and that in Serbia is not, so they can be admitted, and we can't be admitted. I will remind you that the EU has accepted full membership to the Republic of Slovenia, and that in the same Slovenia, the referendum was refused to create a mosque in Ljubljana. What kind of violation of human rights is that? There is no political will or no prevailing political will for Serbia-Montenegro to join the Partnership for Peace. It's not just about the lawsuit. It is also because of relations with The Hague and because of relations in Kosovo and Metohija, these things will be resolved in the future. And if we drop the lawsuit now, what happens? The charges against the SRJ, i.e. Serbia-Montenegro as SRJ's Successor, submitted by BiH and the Republic of Croatia, will remain in force and we will have to pay war damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6486	Mr. Zivkucin is an authorised representative. Just one more announcement. You have received the resignation of Milk Stimec as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of MP Milk Stimec on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before he was elected, to MP Milko Štimac, elected from the election list G17 plus - Miroljub Labus. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6487	It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, as article 100 says MPs address other MPs in the Serbian Parliament with respect. That's not what Mr. Angelkovic did. He came to us with disrespect, and that's why I have to react, because Mr. Angelkovic got excited and talked about that this isn't about patriotism, it's about responsibility. So I was just talking about the fact that in the last decade, it wasn't patriotism, it was irresponsibleness. If it were patriotism, true patriotism, not quasipatriotism, then all these tragic, ugly things, when it comes to the nation and the state, wouldn't happen to us. If it was a matter of responsibility, then those ugly things wouldn't have happened to us either. But that was not the case, there were people on the scene who had the opportunity to be in power and do things that were catastrophic both by nation and country. So there's no reason for anyone to get excited and lose their temper because we're telling the truth. This people finally need someone to tell the truth, to be brave enough to say -- listen, it's not pleasant to hear, it's not pleasant what we have to do now, because we've been brought to the point that we have to listen and that we have to do it, but for the future we have to do it. Mr. Prophetic, as far as Mr. Aligrudic's speech goes, I wrote it down. Mr. Aligrudic, check in the stenogram, said the withdrawal of the lawsuit cannot improve our country's position. That's what he said. I wrote it down. I have come to the conclusion that the survival of the lawsuit can improve our country's position. It's a logical conclusion. If we believe that, then we'll probably have a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6488	I'm asking all the MPs, I'm not gonna let this happen anymore. If the call to the Rules of Procedure is based on a member to whom the president has already warned the speaker, it cannot be used to violate the Rules of Procedure and I will take away the word in the future. The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, so let the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party was convinced at the time of the resolution that this parliament would unanimously accept this resolution. Unfortunately, it is obvious that this will not happen, and that apart from one parliamentary group, which is completely open to support its party president's position and, unfortunately, the foreign minister, all other parliamentary groups do not have the courage to say the same, although I think they represent an entirely identical position. So we are not in favour of withdrawing the suit – says all those who do not want to accept this resolution, and they know very well that Mr Boris Tadic in America received orders that this must be done and that Robertson told Belgrade at the time of his visit – you must drop the suit. That, of course, does not mean that BiH and Croatia must drop the suit. It's a Balkan question, we don't care. Those two things aren't connected. Of course, we don't think they're connected either, but that's the attitude of Robertson, whom, among other things, the Ministry of War has decorated with a high honor. If it's not a humiliation to this country and to this people, then I don't know what humiliation is. I'm sorry, but after my predecessor's presentation from the SPO parliamentary group, I won't be able to do my presentation the way I imagined, as a professional politician, without showing emotion. I have to admit, I'm very moved by everything I see happening in this country and what's going to happen, because I think this is the biggest state issue right now, which we obviously won't be able to reach agreement on. I'll take you back a little bit in history, 60 years back. What happened after World War II? That's what I'm going to do to convince you that the scenario is exactly the same and that the consequences are exactly the same. Getting ready for this session, I read the literature. One of these books is the book "War Reparations from World War II and Germany" by Dr. Ljubomir Jovanovic. The esteemed professor, Dr. Milan Pak, is the reviewer of the book. Among other things, he says here: "In fact, the interest of individual republics in realising reparations is not the same, because neither the war damage nor the number of war victims is the same in all republics. "I say this because it is the same situation today, if you compare Serbia-Montenegro's interest in resolving this issue. "There are no small differences in those interests. On the contrary, they are so great that individual officials belonging to a less affected republic make it difficult to achieve a common goal. "That's true. "Sizifovic efforts are accompanied by weak organisation, inexperience, inadequate paths and underqualified MPs. "If Mr. Vuk Draskovic's advisers are Professor Stojanovic and similar to him, it is no wonder that Vuk Draskovic, who is a irresponsible man by nature, makes such decisions and makes such claims to the public, as he presents them. "Severe individuals who engaged in security and expertise in all this were not enough to achieve satisfactory results. Analyzing multi-layer problems, weaknesses and inconsistencies of international law, we will only mention Halstein's doctrine, with the interruption of diplomatic relations then with Yugoslavia, then the London Agreement, which practically further delays the realisation of reparations, so that the culmination is reached by the Brion Agreement, whose indeterminateness leads to a difficult understanding result. The payment of war damage to credit, under unfavourable payment conditions, with a hypocritical conclusion that these problems will be resolved through further development of bilateral trade co-operation, which has shown a deficit on the Yugoslav side years before the signing of this act. "It's the same situation now. I also got a hand on a book called "The Final Account", signed by Mladjan Dinkic as editor, on July 19th 1999. I want to remind you that the bombing took place between March 23rd and June 9, 1999, which means it was written ten days after the bombing was completed. The conclusion is self-inflicted. The book was written at the time of the bombing. The editor of the book is Predrag Markovic, the current president of the Assembly and G17 Plus, and the publishing house is his house "The pillars of culture". The authors are a group of authors, including Mirosinka Dinkic, Dragor Hiber, Miroljub Labus, Ljubomir Hungary, Milko Stimac, Milan Kovacevic, and consultants Radovan Jelasic, Bosko Zivkovic, etc. It's clear who's behind the concept that's set out in this book, which I'll explain further. The logical question is why this group of authors in the book estimated that the bombing caused an economic damage of $29 billion. How and on the basis of which data, while the bombing took place, did they write this book? Predrag Markovic must know that it is necessary at least a month earlier to give the book to the press in order for it to come out, here, ten days after the bombing. On page 124 of this book, there is a contribution to the billing of war damage. This makes it impossible to conclude that economic damage is so small. The question arises as to why, then, in this book, the idea of connecting war damage, or the possibility of collecting war damage and writing off external debt. That, at least, leads us to the conclusion that it's all premeditated and premeditated. That's why, probably by my deep conviction, all of the governments have been in debt since 2000, so it turns out at some point that part of the damage has already been paid back by part of the debt by the London or the Paris Club. About that a little bit later. But let's remind ourselves that the measure is war damage, how it was measured by the state authorities. You remember a federal commission was formed, a republican commission, a provincial commission. At every local level, there was a commission that recorded the damage. We had measurable, immeasurable damage and the damage it is called - delayed losses. That's what we still can't figure out how much it is. A few days ago, in the press, you could read that bullets with poor uranium were found. Today in the daily press, you can read that every tenth of our country's citizens are mentally ill. What do you think that's about? To those who represent the claim that the lawsuit should not have been filed, I would have set only one example. What would you do if someone broke into their house? To me, my country is my house. What would you do if someone broke into their house, broke all their furniture, bullied their parents, killed their children, knew who did it, and guessed with them, after all that, to pay them back, and they don't care if a court finds them guilty? Can any of you imagine this situation? Would any of you face such a situation? I doubt that. I'd like each one of you to be found guilty. Someone here asked: how do you think those European states we want to sit with at the same table would be declared genocide if the International Court of Justice in The Hague decided that they committed war crimes? What do you mean, and how do you accept that we are a genocide people, in the whole world, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is suing us for genocide? That doesn't hurt at all? That's what I ask those who represent that thesis. In our opinion, the issue of quitting the lawsuit has far-reaching national, economic and political consequences, both for Serbia's current and future positions in international contexts. The current Council of Ministers does not have the authority of the federal government which has filed a claim and cannot be given a sign of equality between the federal government and the Council of Ministers. The Serbian Radical Party believes that no one has the right, especially any individual, leader of any party, Vuk Draskovic or any other, current Montenegrin government, to decide that our state will drop the war damage claim. Why should we prejudge the court's decision? Why should we put pressure on the court? Let the court do what he thinks it has to do. We filed a lawsuit, and now he's in court to do his job. The excuse to withdraw the suit, because the court in The Hague will make a decision on their incompetence is ridiculous. There are other ways to achieve our international law-based request. That's not what anyone's gonna say. In our press, which is absolutely controlled by various powers or parties in power, it is not spoken of, and the exclusive right to have Professor Stojanovic on this statement. Where are our really recognised experts in the field of international public and international private law? By the way, Mr. Stojanovic is engaged in international relations, and it is absolutely clear to us lawyers that this has nothing to do with international public and international private law. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the intention to give up its demands is a unique example in the world, because it is unrecorded in the history of humanity that someone destroys the infrastructure of a country, kills so many people, endangers the future of a nation (if you are not aware that our future is threatened, I am aware of it) and that individuals from that same people say it is justified. I will remind you of what Rambuje said about this same Vuk Draskovic, who changes his opinion from today to tomorrow: "We must not accept him at any cost, because that would mean occupation". I don't know what's going on with that man. Is it really pathological hatred, incompetence, or is he being blackmailed? That's a question for those who put him in that place. But if he wasn't able to find himself in that position, it's absolutely clear to every citizen of this country. We should also look at this process in the context of international practice and its possible termination. This would be a precedent, which would serve to justify aggression and thus bring down the system on which the United Nations rests, because if the aggressor is not punished, everyone will be able to repeat it in the future, such a procedure will become a rule, which means the end of the international legal order. Some claim there was no aggression and that aggression was carried out with the Security Council's permission. I want to remind you that before the aggression the Security Council considered the issue and NATO's intention to bomb our country. The Security Council didn't accept that. I think the three states were in favour, and everyone else was against it. Remember back then, the president of Russia said it was a danger to world peace. Those who claim that Resolution 1244 was subsequently approved and acknowledged by the aggression speak falsely because the resolution deals exclusively with the issue of halting military action in the post of peace in Kosovo and Metohija. It is a political resolution that regulates the situation in Kosovo itself. Resolution 1244 is not a peace agreement. I will remind you of a number of demonstrations by citizens of those countries whose governments have accepted to participate in NATO aggression. They say it is illegal and illogical to be friends with other European peoples, while at the same time staying in this lawsuit. How can we be friends, establish diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia without they withdraw their lawsuits? So there are double criteria for many political party representatives here, when it comes to our country's interests, when it comes to NATO's interests. Because of all this, I ask you who we work for and who we represent here -- NATO or citizens of Serbia and our country? If you have such a problem and you talk in a demeaning way about us being divided into patriots and traitors again, you've identified yourself. I repeat what Mr Nikolic told you yesterday - we Serbian radicals accept to be traitors in your eyes, but not to give up this lawsuit. It won't make our negotiating position any better if we drop the lawsuit. Let the court decide whether they are guilty or not. After that, we'll discuss how we'll be compensated. Our position will be much better in that case. If they weren't sure, all those we sued, if our lawsuit had a chance of success, believe me, they wouldn't be putting this much pressure on you to drop the lawsuit. For example, Belgium has wheeze and begged us not to sue them, they say - which we, we had only one plane in the alliance and only one of our planes flew in and bombed Serbia. So they're absolutely conscious. I want to believe in this International Court of Justice that they will make a decision based on international law, as honor, dignity and reputation are imposed on them. The idea that we should all give up our demands, first of all, is to attach this lawsuit to BiH and Croatia's claims, which I think is the most malicious idea. Because no one will be able to prove it to the Serb people. That's why those who claim that Resolution 1244 doesn't say that there was aggression and that genocide was committed, so this court can't even decide, let them answer themselves - and how it then accuses us of genocide and how some people in The Hague are responsible for the alleged genocide, and in the Dayton Agreement, no genocide is mentioned either. Take it and read it, ask, inform yourself, and first of all listen to what our people think about it, for he has sent us here to decide on his behalf. Be at the height of the historic task, otherwise we are truly doomed. I don't want to remind you of the reasons for aggression and the alleged humanitarian disaster in Kosovo and Metohija. We have numerous confessions afterwards, both to the international public and to the international authorities, that there was no humanitarian disaster. But if ethnic cleansing has been done in Kosovo and Metohija, how can Albanians now have ten times more in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs ten times less? Do you need better proof than that? For four years in Serbia, there's only been a charity in the form of donations and this October, which someone mentions and threatens us with some October, I don't know what it is, except maybe a Contact Group meeting. So, you're afraid there'll be no donations, no financial assistance; there's a mention of Paris, a London club, instead of just looking for what belongs to us, and that's war damage, because in that case we won't depend on anyone, and no one will be able to condition us, primarily by delivering our citizens to The Hague. I want to remind you of the time of sanctions: although it's not allowed by international regulations, they also credited interest on debt, interest on interest, and then it's said here - they wrote us off interest or they wrote us off interest on interest. Something the London Club wrote us off, something the Paris Club. But this parliament has never received a report so far of what it is written off, which is a material substance, or which is a monetary substance -- whether it's interest, whether it's interest on interest, whether it's a basic debt. At the same time, our money was being held abroad, and the interest on those funds was not going. You have to keep all this in mind when you talk about the damage caused by the secession, the introduction of sanctions, aggression and such privatisation that is now being carried out, with this devastating policy you've been conducting for the past four years. To be honest, we expected to have even serious authority, at least when it comes to the interests of the state in this matter. Unfortunately, as you can see, we don't. It is not collecting any small political points from the Serbian Radical Party. For these fifteen years, acting on the political scene of Serbia, we have collected large political points, which we do not want to gamble and remain consistent with the views we have been representing for 15 years. You guys have a chance to get some political points, too. Whether you use it or not, it's your problem, we can't make you do it, but we're trying, of course, to convince you. I am convinced that all this that Serbian Radical Party MPs today represent behind this speaker is the approval of Serbian citizens. They don't need to be convinced of the correctness of their views, they and how they accept those attitudes, because they are their attitudes, we're just doing them here. We address here only to you, calling you to act responsibly, because of the seriousness of the moment this country is in. I warn you once again that we do not have the right to give up this lawsuit; you have no right in my name, you do not have the right on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, you do not have the right on behalf of those mothers who lost their children, you do not have the right on behalf of Mother Sanja Milenkovic or Milice Rakic. It's not just about the political responsibility that one of us will bear here, it's really about the future of this nation that's doomed to even more difficult conditions of life, to an even worse international position than it is in which it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6490	The People's MP, Ksenija Milivojevic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6491	First of all, I have to thank you for this mention of G17 plus in the previous exhibition, because I think it's very good to remind ourselves that in 1999, after the bombing of Serbia, a group of people who made a very reasonable proposal appeared in the sea of catastrophic moves of leadership and demagogy at the time. The group of people who were one of the few who seriously addressed the issue of NATO's war damage by bombing, as well as possible ways of what we are talking about most here, which is to achieve compensation or such an arrangement that will allow Serbia to have financial resources that have been destroyed, damaged in the best possible way to compensate. Unfortunately, there was no understanding of such a move at the time. Thank God, we no longer have such leadership in this country, and we can, instead of various conspiracy theories and division of patriots and traitors, which we are constantly listening to in this assembly, deal with serious problems, such as the Paris and the London Club. When it comes to the Paris Club and the London Club and those debts that our country had in front of those clubs, they were mostly written off. This is particularly true of the previous period, namely the write-off of 67% of the debt before the London Club, which has also been ratified in this assembly recently, by the votes of two-thirds of the MPs, and thanks, above all, to the engagement of the leader G17 plus, headed by Mr Labus, and their engagement in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for the seriousness and access to problems, both the borrowing of Serbia and the war damage itself that has been caused by the NATO bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6492	Here you go. The right to replica is MP Slobodan Zivkucin, representative of the Serbian parliamentary group The Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6493	It is mentioned here that Mr. Vuk Draskovic is an irresponsible politician. Some medical qualifications were mentioned. If Vuk Draskovic were indeed an irresponsible politician, then he would convince you here that it is good to keep the lawsuit against the NATO Pact and that this could give us a good chance of being in Euro-Atlantic integration, in the international community. Then here today he would convince you that it is truly a benefit for both the nation and the state to be in confrontation with the whole world and to persist in this confrontation, believing that it would do us good. If he were an irresponsible politician, then, which is very simple and easy, he would quickly understand what people like to hear, what suits their ears, and he would serve them and speak to them without any responsibility or feelings of what the consequences are. But since he is responsible enough, then he announced something that is not pleasant to hear, which is hard to accept, but what we believe will eventually have to be accepted. So the responsibility of politicians is not only when he declares what most expect and what he wants to hear. The responsibility of politicians is primarily when it is able to predict what will happen and when it is able to tell the people - no, this may be pleasant for the ears, but it is not good for the nation, it is not good for the state. It's the responsibility of the politicians. The responsibility and courage of politicians is when it says so publicly, knowing that it may have consequences for his party's rating. It's both responsibility and courage. It is a willingness to make party, scrawny interests subordinate to something much more important, and that is national and state interest. It is said here that Vuk Draskovic said that the Rambuje deal is a capitulation, that it is defeat, that it is bad. You did say about that other document from Rambuje. For the first, he proposed and insisted that it be accepted, but since the first was not accepted, the second came as punishment after the second version, after that punishment came an even worse punishment - aggression, as a result of the overall "wise and responsible" policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6494	The word is given by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a National MP, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6495	There is something that is indefensible and that no one can defend. The wolf Draskovic you can't defend with any of your stories today. It's very easy to find that he's not responsible for what he's doing. I'm just sorry that we're responsible for his actions, that's the point. You left outside jobs in the hands of an irresponsible man. Let me remind you, when the former Yugoslavia fell apart, the three wondered what would happen: one was Slobodan Milosevic, the other was Vuk Draskovic, and the third was Vojislav Seselj. The fourth political figure the people would listen to then was gone. What did Slobodan Milosevic say? Croats can go, can't perform Serbs and can't export Serbian territories. What did Vojislav Seselj say? If we split up, Serbia is to the line of the London Agreement, to the line of Karlobag - Ogulin - Karlovac - Virovitica. What did Vuk Draskovic say? Serbia is to the last Serbian monastery in the west, to Jasenovac, the largest Serbian city underground, and if we separate each one of us to bring the dowry into that marriage. What did they do when there was a war? Milosevic, by the will of the people, was in power. He had power in his hands. Draskovic and Seselj had no state power, armed forces, but joined the collection of volunteers. Vojislav Seselj collected volunteers and sent them under the command of the territorial defence units and the Yugoslav People's Army. Vuk Draskovic gathered volunteers and sent them as units to the front. The Serbian Guard went to the front as an independent unit of Vuk Draskovic and the Serbian Renewal Movement. Many people have died there, which you gave up right after that. What happened when NATO started commanding Serbia? Free Milosevic was extradited to The Hague with a bag on his head. The charges against Vojislav Seselj in Belgrade were filed against the collection of volunteers and Vojislav Seselj went voluntarily to The Hague. What about Vuk Draskovic? How come nobody mentions Vuk Draskovic as the organiser of the paramilitary formations that sent them to the front? Whether this is now being returned by Vuk Draskovic Karli del Ponte – we will not touch you, and you will not touch Serbia. I heard you were talking about some new coalition. There is no new coalition in Serbia. You're in the Serbian government. You're taking ministerial posts, you're running into Serbia. There's no new coalition here. It's how anyone votes, it's how they vote, but you drive a minister's car. Don't talk about new coalitions. Once again, what did Vuk Draskovic deserve not to be on the Hague list? I don't want any citizen to be in The Hague, but what's the difference? How come Vojislav Seselj is a villain and a criminal for you, and Vuk Draskovic is not? That's why you're "cover yourselves with your ears." This attempt is not a sacrifice of the Serbian Renewal Movement. You have nothing left to sacrifice. This is an attempt to attract the voices of others. You no longer have votes among Serbian nationalists. You're turning into some new party now. I think your boss will be Karic soon. It's your destiny. That's why you're changing politics so fast. You have the right to do that. I have nothing against you, you fight for 5%, but you're going to have a desperate, terrible fight, so you're going to have to hug the rich. I only ask that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia declare itself – can an irresponsible individual lead our country or not? I don't think so. I think foreign policy, that Serbia's fate must not be given to Vuk Draskovic. You know very well that we can't. (From Hall: Tommy Nikolic.) ) Tommy Nikolic, you can, for him, vote million and 500 thousand Serbian citizens, free of charge. When your candidate wins a million and 500 thousand votes, I'll say -- you can let him lead Serbia, but when he wins 150 thousand votes, so he acts like he's got three million, then something's wrong with you. The Serbian Renewal Movement has been terrible since 1990. You were led by Vuk Draskovic on the left and right, and up and down, you banged your head against the walls, but you blindly followed him, like Domanovic's leader, and there was less of you, but you followed him. Now it's over, Serbia can't go after you. What Vuk Draskovic is doing is a betrayal of Serbia. To be in the highest state office and to demand that we do two damages to ourselves, to kill ourselves twice, to drop the NATO suit and go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. And to tell me that your party has something to expect in the next election. But the next election is quick, so you'll see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6496	Replica, MP of the people, Slobodan Zivkucin, and MP of the people Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6497	Don't you, Mr. Nikolic, get nervous and get excited about the Serbian Renewal Movement ratings and because we followed Vuk Draskovic for ten years, from 1990 to 2000. So, we have followed Vuk Draskovic and his fight against Milosevic and against you who have been harassing Serbia over the last decade of the past century. We followed Vuk Draskovic, and not only us, but the entire democratic opposition to Serbia, the entire democratic corps in Serbia, wanting to finally come down from the coat of arms of the people and states to this regime of Slobodan Milosevic and Mira Markovic, which you were a secure supporting pillar. It is unfortunate that you followed the policy of Vojislav Seselj, it is unfortunate that the citizens were deceived and that, during the aggression, the next policy of Milosevic and Seselj, we were brought to the point that in 1999, the country was attacked, that civilians and destroyed objects were killed and everything that could be destroyed. It's unfortunate that even today, following that barren, international policy, you deceive citizens by trying to raise a rating to your own party, knowing that everything you tell citizens about the consequences has been the production of misery, tragedy and disaster. Who is it that has led tens of thousands of people to be killed, obeyed, who has produced hundreds of thousands of refugees who have left their homes and with a covenant in their hands come here to Serbia? Who's responsible? Who produced such a national disaster and tragedy? Was she who was in power, which was Slobodan Milosevic, Mira Markovic and Vojislav Seselj, or who was not in power and fought against the regime? There's one more thing to tell you, if we're already talking about Vuk Draskovic, and you would, I know, like to see him in The Hague, because what you're saying, these lies you're making, you'd like to see him in The Hague. I will remind you that just on the statements made by Vojislav Seselj, BiH's lawsuit against Serbia-Montenegro, that is, the SRJ. So, Vojislav Seselj... (Chairman: Please, time.) )......................................................................................................... believe it or not, on 23 May 1996, he gave journalist Masim Navi in Belgrade the next interview. Asked why Milosevic was a traitor, Seselj said Milosevic was a traitor (and we cannot oppose him) because he encouraged Serbs to wage war and rebel in Krajina and Bosnia; he armed them, funded them, supported them, and then abandoned them, claiming that he had nothing to do with it and that he contributed to peace. That's how he betrayed the national interest. So, Seselj says what's used in the lawsuit...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6498	Please, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6499	... BiH is against our country and giving material that the lawsuit has stronger foundations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6500	Please finish, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6501	Furthermore, Seselj says -- the fact is that orders came from Belgrade, Mladic and other Bosnian Serb officers carried out plans made by the General Staff in Belgrade (23 May 1996). So, a man who was with authority and in power directly gives grounds, the basis for BiH's indictment against Serbia-Montenegro. Next...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6502	Please, you've exceeded your time and brought an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6503	... I do not deny that the massacre was, I do not deny the acts that everyone has done, I say there is no evidence against my people, there is no point in accusing Karadzic, Milosevic is the real culprit. So, the man declared what he was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6504	Please, you've been out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6505	You're trying to do damage today. It's not good. It's good to think about what's good for both the nation and the state and what's not. Anyway, this demagogy, this irresponsible policy, this story we've heard many times and that's many times...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6506	Please, really bring the end, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6507	... Leading to misery, can't and can't be the politics of the state anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6508	Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6509	Dear colleagues, Vojislav Seselj was absolutely right and we are thinking the same thing today. So if you had any intention of eventually bringing us into a dilemma whether that statement was then adequate to what we're thinking today, be sure that we're thinking the same thing day and day. So much for that. I volunteered for the replica because I was misread by my predecessor. I didn't say Vuk Draskovic was an irresponsible individual. I said what Vuk Draskovic said, and I said it must not be allowed for Vuk Draskovic, as foreign minister, or another irresponsible individual to make such a decision or affect the creation of such an atmosphere that would lead to a decision to drop the suit. Instead of explaining the fundamentality of the compensation requirement, as an economic and international legal category, which would be his task as foreign minister, and that together with his advisers working on it, he and they concentrate all their energy on convincing the public that no compensation should be sought, I suppose the debtors would not be angry. Two arguments are used most often, if they can be arguments at all. The first is that we have received or will receive financial aid from the West (we know that we have not received it, and we know that we will not even receive it), grants or favourable loans, and that there is no need to insist on the formal compensation of war damage. The second is the illusion that the US and other NATO members can exercise the right to war damage, because they are so strong and difficult to commit. That is why it is better than anything to give up in the interest of good future relationships of cooperation and friendship. That's what Vuk Draskovic says. But the truth is a little different. NATO is aware that it has committed aggression, has violated the UN Charter, the basic principles of international legal order, Geneva, The Hague Convention and many other sources of international public law, and has also violated its own founding act. The countries involved in the aggression have also violated their own constitutions, since the decisions on aggression have been made by individual leaders and structures outside and most often against the will of their peoples, or national parliaments. That's true. Hence, it is normal for NATO and its leaders, especially the leaders of the United States and Germany who played a key role in taking aggression against the SRJ, to be aware of the far-reaching consequences of the possible acceptance of our lawsuit and possible condemnation by the International Court of Justice, seek to prevent it from happening in advance. They saw the best route in withdrawing the lawsuit, and the best perpetrators in those individuals from Serbia. NATO has ensured with its finances, propaganda, statements, intelligence services, embedded advisers in the structures of the government that in October's coup in 2000, and in the immersion of free and democratic elections in Serbia-Montenegro, the most important positions of the government come to those who are certain that they will perform as they do, i.e.... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... to impose and defend the interests of NATO and certain member states, declaring these interests in Serbia-Montenegro's interests, that is, Serbia. It has been shown that they have done so zealously and that they are doing so day and day, so that they have turned our country, instead of partners in the west and east, into a promotional coin. Since many of you have already been read and exhausted, the NATO Pact or that West then serves us a new politician, one called an industrialist who takes off chains and locks, who in this country has not had a single factory, who is even the president of the Industrial Association, and has never been an industrialist. All this is happening, in the election, before the election, in the election, in the election, in this particular lawsuit. This SRS lawsuit is not the ruling party. Because of this lawsuit, Tomislav Nikolic was not allowed to win the presidential election... (President: You've been over time for two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Because NATO is absolutely clear to the pact that the SRS would never allow such a decision to be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6510	The word is Rajko Baralić, in connection with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6511	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker Mr. Slobodan Zivkucin told this speaker a lie that entirely coincides with one element of the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic. It is not true that General Ratko Mladic was following orders... (President: Which member is injured? () That the MP behind the speaker is obliged to speak the truth. It is not true that General Ratko Mladic was following orders from the Belgrade General Staff. At the time there was power in that part of the territory that had its own assembly and 18-portion government, there was an army commanded by Ratko Mladic, there was his general staff, there were five Corpses of three divisions, there was a service of internal security and state security, there was a assembly whose president was Nikola Krajisnik, and it is not possible to say such a thing for this speaker. I want to say, if that were the case, it would not have happened if that assembly did not accept the Vens - Owen plan, although the highest representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, Mr Slobodan Milosevic and Dobrica Cosic were there. It is not true, Mr. Zivkucin, that General Ratko Mladic was following orders from the General Staff of the SRJ, and I guess it is perfectly normal that they co-operated and that the General Staff in Belgrade helped fight their people in a fair fight on their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6512	Thank you. I would ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because only authorised representatives can report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure when falsely speaking. You have a 96th where it's regulated. Here you go, replica, Free Zivkucin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6513	It wasn't me, Mr. Baralic, who said that you interpreted for this speaker for a moment. I have quoted Vojislav Seselj as saying since 23 May 1996 to journalist Masim Navia. So whether it's true or not, whether he was taking Mladic or Karadzic's orders from this or him or not, who did or did what, that's another topic and another story. I was just quoting what was said in the interview eight years ago. That's what SRS President Vojislav Seselj said, that's not my word. If you'd listened more carefully, you wouldn't have talked like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6514	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6515	This is where you started to fight with words. What difference does it make what an opposition MP or politician used to say? Let me remind you that the SPO could have caused the bombing when Vuk Draskovic said that whoever raises a Muslim banner in Rasko would go both hand and banner. Could it have been a cause for Serbia's bombing? It's not bombed, because you've got the wrong idea that someone could deserve a bombing and that's what you're doing in politics. Who's the one who can deserve the bombing? Did Milosevic deserve the bombing? Why didn't Milosevic bomb? What were they shooting at little Milica Rakic? What kind of hand is this that dropped the bomb on little Milica Rakic's house? To kill Milosevic? Don't talk about things that were years ago. That's when it's decided. No one's been making statements since ten years ago when they want to comment on some events. What if someone called you in ten years for words spoken for a pay phone? Right now, he's getting rid of how anyone's gonna react. These were political events. Never opposition politician Vuk Draskovic, Zoran Djindjic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Vojislav Seselj with his statements It's not worth it, every time I go out to say there's a crazy MP here and you're all looking at him. [[A voice from the bench: Tomislav Nikolic.]] So it's an axiom, we no longer determine. The one who runs the country bears the highest responsibility. If a state is accused, it's accused of proceedings against whoever's leading the state, not the actions of someone who's not in power. I never blame Vuk Draskovic for having made Serbia uncomfortable. He didn't decide, he didn't influence. Now he is in power, now because of his statements, because of his actions Serbia can have unpleasantness. That's my attitude. I can say whatever you want today, they can comment on the world's media, they can accuse me of a crime, but Serbia can't be punished for my words. But if the Prime Minister comes out here, if the minister comes out, even if the president of the party's parliamentary group is in power, his words can cause consequences for the state. So much for political theory. Never tie the fate of the state to the opposition's behavior, but always to the conduct of the government. And when you talk about who was in power, when you talk about who was responsible and who was serious, I watched Mr. Vuk Draskovic's interview, during the bombing, on BBC in English, which I even understood. The journalist attacked our country that it was our fault for the bombing, and Vuk Draskovic in English says - but sir, don't mix grandmothers and frigs. That man falls from a chair to an American ass, and Vuk Draskovic translates to him -- you know, that means, "Don't mix grandmothers and frogs." So much for your president's understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6516	Here you are, Slobodan Zivkucin, representative of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6517	This may have been a small, likable wit that made some laugh, I see, but I don't see the reason why she laughed, but I will understand those who laughed. So, Mr Nikolic said that the difference between what those who are in power and those who are in opposition say, but we must remind ourselves that there were favorite opposition leaders, the most popular leaders of opposition parties who, which coincidences, always said exactly what the one who wanted and ordered in power was. So it didn't really matter what Seselj was saying at the time, especially when he entered power with Milosevic and when he did what he did. I agree that it is not equal to the burden of responsibility of Vuk Draskovic and Vojislav Seselj. The burden of responsibility of Vojislav Seselj is greater than Vuk Draskovic, as it directly led to his political engagement at the top of the government with Milosevic in 1999. So let's not change the thesis and let's not say now - it's not good to quote something that happened eight or ten years ago. I know what I've read isn't nice for you to hear and that you don't like to remember. But it happened, it was said, it is now being used as an argument in BiH's lawsuit against our country. It's a damage that's been done. You may like it or not, but those are facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6518	On the night of the adoption of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was scheduled for the next day. The plan was never discussed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ever. The first session of the National Assembly was scheduled at the government's request, with the agenda proposed by the government, and the government did not give an opinion on the agenda. At about 10 pm, Vojislav Seselj was invited to the White Court, because there is a Russian delegation, there are Ahtisaari and Chernomidin. Vojislav Seselj and Stevo Dragisic went, and we were all waiting to see the outcome. (A voice from the O.R.: And where? We waited in the rooms of the party. We were drinking sour water and coffee. Any more information? On the stairs they met Russian generals, who were escorted by Chernomirdin. The Minister of Defence said: "Don't let them accept this." When they entered the room, Slobodan Milosevic, Mira Markovic and Vuk Draskovic sat there. Ask your president if I'm lying. At that time, it was already agreed that the next day the Assembly would adopt the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan. When they discussed it, Milosevic said -- well, it will be voted without the consent of the Serbian Radical Party. After that, you have adopted the manner in which coalition parties can vote differently from the government's position. But it was the first time in the history of multilaterals in Serbia to provide a decision here without a party from the ruling coalition, with the help of the opposition. These relations between Mira Markovic and Vuk Draskovic were extremely good. Free Milosevic only followed these good relations. They were so good that Vuk Draskovic got a house in Belgrade, and you know it well. But tell him it's full of bugs, because since then, a gift like that without a bug couldn't be obtained. They were so good that the federal customs administration gave Vuk Draskovic one car, but Mihalj Kertes, who disagreed, gave him the worst possible car. He spent 35 liters of gasoline per 100 kilometers. These are all the facts of your political life and action. I'm bringing them to you now. Those relationships were so good, you were... (A voice from the O.R.: "What about the jeep"? That jeep to get us back. But, Gruddick, you have three Supreme Court decisions. That jeep must be returned to us. No more. I don't want to listen to them get me a jeep. A jeep to give us back, if you want to talk. They were so good relations that you entered the federal government, which is why you say the bombing was made. Don't separate the responsibility of the federal government. The federal government has the same responsibility as the Republic, and bigger, because at least on two occasions, as far as I know, it's bombed and Montenegro. They bombed Murino and Danilovgrad. I don't know if it's yet. Vuk Draskovic was driven from the government because of these attitudes. Do you know when he was shot? When he was afraid that his presence in the government could be a reason to go to The Hague. Besides, how many of you were there in 1999 with Vuk Draskovic? For my predecessor, I know that he entered the SPO in 1994. What's been very honest with the SPO, I have to admit, what I met in the Assembly, here he is now at the DSS, so you watch now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6519	People's MP, Free Zivkucin. I'm sorry, you'll have to wait. According to the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralic, a National MP, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6520	Mr Vice-President, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the parliamentary groups, said in article 38, "The delegation group is the president of the parliamentary group. The parliamentary group has a deputy president of the parliamentary group who replaces him in the event of his absence. During the meeting of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group at a certain point in the agenda, which shall be notified in writing by the President of the National Assembly no later than the opening of the debate on the agenda. "Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic is the president of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group. The deputy of this parliamentary group is Mr Miroslav Markicevic. Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, as an authorised representative last night, participated in the debate and used 20 minutes. Mr. Free Zivkucin is illegally representing a parliamentary group in the National Assembly today. He can only contact you about the Rules of Procedure or as a debater. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 38(3), have been violated. I ask that the National Assembly declare this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6521	In voting day, the National Assembly will declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He has no right to speak. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6522	I have the right to speak because I am an authorised representative of the SPO-NS parliamentary group. I know you wouldn't want me to talk, but that's your problem, not ours. By Slobodan Milosevic Vuk Draskovic did not get the house. Unfortunately, only beatings and several assassinations, he got attempted murder, he got only death in his family and in his party. From Slobodan Milosevic and the nations and the state, they only got the worst they could get. Since Slobodan Milosevic, unfortunately, many have received death, beating and closure. Therefore, this inventory of what, to God, Vuk Draskovic received from Slobodan Milosevic not only is it not true, but it is indeed a rude slander. Also, I know that the Serbian Radical Party would have liked the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan not yet adopted. That would mean the bombing's still going on. This would increase the chances of NATO falling apart as soon as possible and that the sooner America falls apart and that America and England are "the land of the proletarian". Then when that happens, we might adopt the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6523	Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6524	First, I ask you to let us know if you have the authority to be Mr. Zivkucin's representative of the SPO-NS parliamentary group. There's nothing to vote on. Either you do or you don't. If you do, let him perform on behalf of the parliamentary group, and if you don't, don't direct us to the voting day. I refer the question to the Secretary of Parliament - did the parliamentary group give authority to its representative Zivkucin? (SPO-New Serbia MPs from the parliamentary benches say, "Yes, he has given his authority. If he gave it, now he can only speak. Nothing is disputed, but we should do everything according to regulations. Don't accuse us of being there for the bombing. We were in favour of not accepting the Ahtisaari plan - Chernomidin because today, four years later, the question is whether the plan saved Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia or not, whether the plan allowed Serbs to stay in Kosovo and Metohija or not, whether the plan prevented the killing, exorcising and harassing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or not. That's basic questions. If you had the time, from your jobs, to read a book after the aggression, to read books written by German and English generals who participated in the attack, you would no longer go out for this pay phone, because in those books they proved our claim that it was two more weeks to endure. We who endured those 78 days of bombing could endure another 14 days, because the state was concerned because the nation was concerned because Kosovo and Metohija were at stake. The aggression was exhaling. Only England and America took part in the bombing, all other European countries were one by one coming out of aggression, according to their books. But I can't recommend what books you're going to read. I recommend that you no longer read the "knife", or "Judge", or "Coyed Serbia", because the author gave up those books. You can freely reprint those books, the author no longer gives them the right, his policy is not the policy he wrote those books. I'm not ashamed to say - nationalism is the book of Vuk Draskovic, except I was able to tell the difference between right and wrong, and you can't. Please read his books again and ask him if the books are what Vuk Draskovic is or if Vuk Draskovic is what he is doing today. Ask him how General Night changed last night, and he can say that, too, because he knows a lot about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6525	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan. Let the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6526	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask MPs who like to participate in these replicas, because here I have been waiting an hour to speak, to bear in mind that this is what the citizens of Serbia are watching and, most importantly, they are paying for it. As for the 1999 war destruction, we all know that the material damage, caused primarily by Serbia, is huge. As far as human victims are concerned, we also know they're large, although I don't think we know the exact number yet. It is clear that Serbia has suffered enormous material damage and destruction over the past few months. That's all, no difference, I'm judging. Here is the issue of a resolution banning the withdrawal of the suit to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I'd stick to the subject. As a lawyer, I must first of all refer to the legal fact of this resolution, if it would be accepted. I'm not gonna talk about that legal action for long, I'm just gonna talk about it briefly. No legal fact would have this resolution. First of all, the Serbian Parliament is reluctant to decide whether or not to withdraw the suit, whether or not one can withdraw the suit, and all for one simple reason -- the Serbian Parliament did not decide whether the suit should be filed. As for some comments yesterday that the government has no position on this issue, I would remind MPs that they have received the government's opinion in favour of today's session. The government has an opinion on that. It is clear that international subjectivity currently belongs to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, that Serbia has surrendered its international subjectivity to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I underline once again, the Serbian Parliament is not competent to discuss this. But what's there is, we're discussing it. I would like to say what is basic and that is that the party G17 plus condemns, of course, the bombing and aggression that was done in 1999. However, we are categorically against the adoption of this resolution and because at this point we cannot limit ourselves by absolutely prohibiting anything from happening at any time - to withdraw it or not to withdraw it, and all for the simple reason to bear in mind that there are also two charges against our country against Serbia for genocide. Our diplomacy should do everything to get us out of this awkward situation as best as possible, given that there are two lawsuits against us. When we know what we get by withdrawing a lawsuit or what we get by participating, by participating in this process, and how much of our country benefits or damage, then this assembly should be able to plead out what to do next on this matter. So it seems to me that today's discussion of this doesn't make any sense, and this is more and more like a legendary term from the 1974 Titus Constitution, under which the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia could never lose the war, because it's written that no one can sign the capitulation; if they sign, it's black written. The resolution doesn't mean anything, as it doesn't mean that no one can sign the capitulation. In fact, maybe this resolution does mean something. It means that someone decided to use the tragedy that brought us all together in 1999 for political purposes and for pre-election marketing. In my personal name, I can say it's a real shame. It's not patriotism, it's hitting on the most painful memories of the Serbian people. It's not patriotism, it's politics. It's also the return to that insidious, Indian language, which eventually led us to the bombing, and now we're hearing about how and how tragic our children died in that bombing. The basic indicator of patriotism, to remind you, is taking care of citizens' interests. Let's see what our citizens get by adopting this resolution. Since I'm optimistic, I always look at the most favourable situation first. By adopting this resolution, the citizens of this country would get nothing, at best. In that worse case, by fingertiping around the international community again we would be negative news, Serbia would again be talked about in a negative context. I am glad that the applicants of this proposal and these resolutions have now realised that Serbia died in the 1999 bombing. But then they didn't know it was going to happen. Now, after the war, all generals are smart. Then Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Seselj said, at dusk of the bombing, that if that happens, we will suffer, but Albanians in Kosovo will not be. If anyone in NATO has until then questioned whether to initiate aggression and action against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the speech convinced him to do so. At the time, the Serbian Radical Party was not in opposition but was in power. So, gentlemen of the Patriots, don't help Serbia anymore. You've done enough in the 1990s. Serbia will never forget that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6527	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic - a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6528	I don't know if that's what Vojislav Seselj said before he beat you up for those cell phones or after? But don't go out for this pay phone and talk about things you don't know about. Of course, children were killed in 1999, of course everyone was aware of it, of course any state could come into a situation where someone attacked her, and this is not appreciated after, but appreciated by that class. To remind you of one thing, all of you who talk here about decisions made in 1999. The only referendum in Serbia that one government asked citizens to declare its policy was a referendum on whether or not we would allow foreigners to interfere in our internal affairs. I've never heard of this referendum being faked or staged. The will of Serbian citizens was clear to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija on our own; the will of Serbian citizens was clearly expressed, throughout the aggression, to defend Serbia. By spitting on this resistance to aggression, you spit on voters, on Serbian citizens, on those who love this country. You spit on the hosts. I'm asking you, if someone would come into your house, could they do it? Would you try to defend yourself? Or you'd tell your wife and kids-- don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. Well, if you're guilty, who's the one to get into your house? Why are you guilty? Why was Serbia guilty of bombing at least ten European countries? What country deserved to be bombed by ten states? What did she deserve it for? Are you fighting terrorists? Did America say the KLA is a terrorist organization? You won't remember everything. Get the fragments out. You didn't even exist in political life. You're like a new bank, you don't have old debts. Yes, you did. You lived in this country. In this country everything has been resolved before you, and after you, especially after G17 plus, a little bit more, catch what you have. Watch them cut the analysis. You're falling dizzy. That's why I want the vermin to be prevented. It will remain a serious political party. It's time for the vermin to be gone. One part of the vermin went with that DOS, the other part leaves with this DOS and remains serious and large political parties on the political scene. That is the goal -- state-run parties, not parties that, whenever Serbia is in a position to defend themselves from saying -- we will not defend ourselves. There's something you need to do. It was like it was easy for people to respond to go to war, like it was easy for kids to make dances and songs while bombs fall. It's a feeling of state and people. Whoever doesn't have it, let's wait for this to be a Europe without borders. If one day this idea takes over Europe and Serbia completely, good luck to you. But in such a Europe, Germany enters with its borders, France with its own. Germany will come out soon with its borders. It's a pointless idea. You're advocating this idea. You could have told us that four years ago, until you came to power. Here, for four years you've been in power, you've been implementing that idea. Is that why we're better? Does our people live better? Are our salaries higher? Where are those apartments you promised in a year, a car in a year, a house in two years? Where is it? Partnership for Peace, NATO, European Integration - who bothers you, do you mind radicals entering European integration? Who runs this country - pro-European parties. What aren't you in Europe, do we bother you again? Or we need you in every election to say -- these won't get us into Europe, and you will. Tell me the date, if we're going to vote for you for 15 years because you keep saying you're going to bring us into Europe. To what Europe? There are three types of countries in Europe: members of the Union, candidates for members and Serbia-Montenegro. That's where you put us. You're gonna keep delivering some blackmails to us, to fill this, that. What kind of partnership for peace? What NATO pact? What are you doing in the NATO Pact? Why take us there? Who do we attack in the NATO Pact? To go against Russia, against who? We're bombing some country that's getting cold? With what? You've ruined the army completely, and now you're additionally ruining it. It's nice to talk - Europe, Europe, but where is Serbia? I guess we'll build Serbia first. You pass the law you want, you change taxes, taxes, taxes, contributions, you do whatever you want. Are we better? We're not getting any better. Why do we have this kind of success? We're not getting any better. If your plans had been good, if your programmes had been good, if Serbia had lived better, the radicals would have fallen, as the other parties have fallen, and you. However, citizens are now aware. We were all in power. Now they know us. Now these choices are the exact criteria. Free of your media, free of attacks, free of everything. The citizens of Serbia now know us all -- and we who do not want to join NATO and you who want to join NATO, and your condition for us to join NATO is to fulfill everything they ask of us. Find me a country in a world that isn't important, which isn't a banana-republic, which is sovereign, which will say, we will fulfill everything you ask of us. He won't. If there's anything I can do to stop you experts, it's just that we don't experience Argentina. If you continue like this, you'll have Argentina on the streets very soon. Perhaps you will escape to the countries from which you came or in which you have prepared your resignations, because your institutes receive money from abroad. What will the citizens of Serbia do? What's a farmer, a worker, a pensioner, the one who's out of a job? You want us to surprise you with some other resolutions? We'll have to. We're going to have to ask a lot of questions about the Parliament's position, because you're leading the state at night, secretly and without the consent of coalition partners. What do you want, to eliminate the Parliament from its decision? It can't. This is where it's gonna be decided. Don't accuse us of this being political marketing, I saw you at the pay phone. This is your marketing, too. You're talking your program, we're talking ours, we're giving a position on this point. Why does that mean that this will bring us points? Here's a chance for you to get points, too. The agenda is an opportunity for everyone - 250 MPs, so how does anyone take advantage of it? But to accuse Serbia of defending itself in 1999, that is pointless. Serbia defended itself, Milosevic, Seselj, Draskovic was not defended. The whole of Serbia was defended. It is not true what one of you said here - because of fear of power they defended Serbia. Where was that repression? Who's being punished for not responding to mobilization, who's being punished for desertion? Nobody. You've even come to power, many of you, who have been calling for bombings. Yes, Zoran Djindjic called for the bombing to continue, because - Milosevic will drop. I thought some like you could never come to power in Serbia again. You're here, but for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6529	Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Ksenija Milivojevic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6530	Let me get this straight. The state-run parties are those parties that do not call for war and who are not proud of the policy of coercion on war and the policy of pushing their people into war, in which they do not even officially participate. At least it was an explanation that we, in the 1990s, got when our children went and died in a war we never participated in, and all the other wars. State-owned parties are those parties that take care of their country and want the best for their country. What happened in 1999, the tragedy of the Serbian people and the Serbian state that happened that year, was the greatest humiliation that happened to Serbia in its history. However, it is fortunate that now, after so many years, we can still go at a certain pace to Europe, because the policy, which we have all survived, is no longer in power and no longer leads the main word when it comes to Serbia. When are we going to Europe? In Europe, when we are able to compensate for all the unfortunate consequences of the government that we had from 1990 to 2000, it sometimes seems so difficult that even the next five generations won't fix it. The only happy circumstance in this tragedy is that those parties who participated in this policy, thank God, will never again be in power, or will never be able to lead this people astray again and win some elections eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6531	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6532	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. The previous speaker who replicated me said I had no idea what I was talking about, and he seems to have no idea who he's talking to. I don't know what Chaddy's about, like, cell phones. Maybe you thought, here, let me help you with Free Homen. I have nothing to do with him. That's not my last name. Here, let me direct you a little bit and once again to tell the great state-run party - don't, please, defend us any more, whenever you defend us, we've had a bad time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6533	Thank you. The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Svilanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of a resolution banning the withdrawal of the lawsuit filed by our country against NATO members. No one can withdraw the lawsuit because no one has the right to amnesty to NATO from the crimes committed during the three-month bombing. No one has the right to give up war damages, which is between $30 billion and $100 billion. He says that if we withdraw the NATO suit at the same time, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's lawsuits against our country will be an empty story. So it's nothing. The story is often forced, above all, by Vuk Draskovic, Boris Tadic, and by many other current politicians in the country. The best denials are given, above all, by Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency President Sulejman Tihic, who says the withdrawal of the suit has nothing to do with it. Even more convincing is NATO Secretary General, who said a few weeks ago that these lawsuits had nothing to do with each other, that is, our lawsuit with Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuits. In this way, it is best to prove that the international factor does not want Bosnia and Croatia's lawsuits to be lifted, but rather about the lawsuits and incentives. What we agree on, when it comes to the NATO Secretary-General, is that the lawsuits are not the same. Our suit against NATO was founded and founded, and the charges of Bosnia and Herzegovina are unfounded. Why is our lawsuit justified and founded? Because NATO without a Security Council decision for 78 days bombed our country without doubt, killing children, civilians, destroying bridges, hospitals, schools, businesses. We have been bombed to know the MPs of the SPO, who are most in favour of withdrawing this lawsuit, because of the endangered human rights of the Shipar. That was the main reason. That's the main explanation, as well as the humanitarian disaster. Neither the rights of the Shipara were threatened, nor was it a humanitarian disaster. The humanitarian disaster happened only when NATO started the bombing. On the other hand, in Bosnia and Croatia there was a civil war, driven primarily from the outside, Germany and the Vatican. In this civil war, we helped our people with much greater rights than the Germans, the French, the Americans, who fought on the side of the Croats and Muslims. So we'd be the most common creeps if we hadn't helped our people. That's why we got the sanctions. That's where I say both suits are based, both Bosnian and Croatian, unfounded. But what surprises and follows us, especially in the last four years, is the service of Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, President Boris Tadic, the service and humility that are almost humiliating. On the other hand, we would understand that we have some good solutions out of this service and humility. There is a legitimate question – what was done after 5 October? Is any major state issue resolved by the arrival of DOS and current authorities? No question has been solved. Today, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is catastrophic. We had great promises that after the event on March 17th, the guilty would be found and punished. Is there any of that? There's nothing. It has been said that the destroyed churches and monasteries will be rehabilitated. Is there any of that? There's nothing. It has been said that the return of the exiled Serbs will be ensured. Is there any of that? There's nothing. We ask ourselves – where is the authority of Vuk Draskovic, Boris Tadic, Kostunica, Labus, why don't they do something about it? Why the international community does not respect them; it is clear that the international factor's relationship with this country has not changed since October 5th. So, after October 5th, we have the same situation. They force us to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, while at the same time not a word of warning that Albanians go to the Presevo and Bujanovac elections. The double arches are, then, everywhere and everywhere. A special warning for this current government is the announced debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the alleged threat of Hungarians. What are the Hungarians at risk for? Hungarians have all rights in Vojvodina, rights that are higher than European standards. So that double archin continues and there's nothing better after October 5th. The international community sees this power, DOS power, and even the current government looks at it with the same eyes. There are still some very important issues mentioned in yesterday's and today's debate, which were highlighted by SPO representatives and Miss Ksenija Milivojevic. SPO MPs were talking about Rambuje, that a solution could be found there. Rambouje was trying to make a deal. There was no direct conversation between the two delegations. Rambuje was an occupation. If we had accepted Rambui, we would have had Macedonia or the Republic of Serbia. What does the US administration in Macedonia do? Shares Macedonia in two countries. Is there any help here? There isn't. Resolution 1244, often referred to and said that capitulation is simply not a capitulation, is a compromise, but the problem is that the resolution is not being implemented. The KLA is not disarmed, there is no security for Serbs and I ask our state leaders where their authority is, where is their reputation in the international community? Why doesn't Labus, Kostunica, Vuk Draskovic, Boris Tadic do something about having Resolution 1244 implemented? There's nothing else to look for. Or, these questions that Miss Xenia was talking about, that over the past ten years, we've been running the policy that humiliated this people. That's not true. We defended our people, we did everything we could to help him. We didn't sell any factories, we didn't fire workers, unlike DOS authorities, where Ksenija Milivojevic is; all factories were sold, 500 thousand workers were fired, no state issues resolved. Of the numerous promises, nothing was done, except that we got big taxes, expensive electricity and empty promises. They spoke - there will be a journey, there will be no visa. We were introduced today by all visas, both Romanians and Hungarians, only the government or people in power, and in the previous and present, they suggest we go to Albania. There, that's the contribution. Or another story Ksenija Milivojevic is also talking about, that politics is being conducted in someone else's name. What's someone else's name? Please, the Socialist Party of Serbia had massive support for the people during the 1990s. We had two million voters. President Milosevic had three million. When he lost the election, he had two million voters behind him and his policies. Therefore, politics was directed in the name of that people. Then there was September or October 5th, NATO's aid pact, huge mercenaries, we know who was getting all the money, books were written about it, and there was a change of government. We see where Serbia is today. That's why we advocate that this resolution be adopted, because simply the world respects those who have dignity much more than those who are humble. The lawsuit, on the other hand, is the best dam against Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuits and should therefore be retained, so accept the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6535	Replica, MP Ksenija Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6536	It is fortunate, as I said earlier, and I will repeat, that these policies are no longer in Serbia and that there are no more stories and the demagogy we have heard for years. He is poor, and the people who are alone are humiliated, isolated, and kneeling on their knees, and on whom the bombs fall. It's a humiliation and it can never be a defense. Thank you. (Toma Bushetić: She did not understand well. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6537	Here you are, MP Toma Busetic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6538	You know, Miss Milivojevic, we never kneeled. On the contrary, we were worthy. We won the bombs, I just said, because of the alleged humanitarian disaster of the Shipara, and perhaps the Serbs, which didn't even exist, and it was created only when NATO began to bomb us. We were won because of allegedly threatened rights of Shipara in Kosovo. It didn't fit either one. It is obvious that we received the bombing primarily in order to leave this patriotic power and to have someone else come now who will sell everything and fire the workers and who will pass the laws that have cleared both the unemployed and the employees, and the workers and all in Serbia, and these laws have been passed by 2003. I'm afraid he'll go that way. I don't know, after October 5th, from DOS to today, what's better in Serbia. Tell me one thing, which is better. Nothing's better, it's getting worse. I'm afraid it's going to get worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6539	The word is made by MP Goran Svilanovic. Is he here? It's not. The People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Svetislav Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6540	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, that Mr. Draskovic did not abuse his powers, and abuse is the right word, we would not be having this debate today. The foreign minister is obliged to defend only his own government's views in his public acts, not his personal views. This is how Mr Draskovic continued the "famous" tradition of his great predecessor, Milan St. Protic, who, in the capacity of our ambassador to America, said he cared nothing about the views of his government, his president, and explained to the Americans that this is the best proof that we have stepped through democracy. To Americans where the ambassador and foreign minister who says such a thing would have to resign immediately. However, I would like to draw your attention to another abuse of public authority, which comes from Professor Stojanovic, who is otherwise a legal adviser to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Government. The foreign ministry's legal adviser is obliged to explain only those views of his minister who has the consent of his government. If otherwise, he becomes a private adviser to the foreign minister and, of course, abuses his powers. I want to draw your attention to the legal argument given to me by the respected Professor Stojanovic. One professor of law school, now dead, he used to say, we lawyers are like tailors, as they tell us to make it. Of course, not all lawyers are tailors, but some are. Here, let's see what Mr. Draskovic's authorised representative has made for us. His first argument, which won the highest publicity, is that our lawsuit against NATO members has no chance, so we better pull it back. It has already been said that if that were the case, NATO's pact members would not set it as an ultimate condition for us to join the Partnership for Peace and join the European Union. It's not said here, and I'm going to let myself say that, what exactly when it comes to that lawsuit are afraid of the members of the NATO Pact. I don't think they're afraid the court will rule in our favor. I have no illusions about this so-called. to international justice, the Hague court has proven this in a word. They're afraid of something else. If the trial starts, and it takes days and months, then the world's public will be presented with a lot of evidence, including photographs showing that this famous "merciful angel" had no mercy for the citizens of this country. That's why they're afraid of that lawsuit, and that's why they're asking us to take it back. Now let me say something about Mr. Draskovic's legal advisor's very explanation. He assures us that the genocide suit doesn't stand a chance, and he forgets to present, and so does the foreign minister, that the lawsuit has three counts. Genocide is just one of them. Whoever's hiding it from the public has to be responsible for something like that. The second paragraph is a lawsuit for an illegal, illegal decision to attack Yugoslavia and, of course, war crimes and breach of the basic humanitarian law standards. Both charges are very easy to prove. As for the first, it is undeniable that the UN organisation did not give its consent to aggression in Yugoslavia. As far as these others are concerned, killing civilians is a war crime, not collateral damage. When it comes to violating humanitarian law standards, let me remind you that the bombing was aimed at electrical power plants and gas, and then all citizens are left not only without electricity but also without water, and then their right to an elementary life survival is compromised. I was able to listen to a NATO pact spokesman on a CNN show, which is a journalist's question whether the bombing of electricity and gas was a legitimate military goal. I'd like to see which international court would declare such a thing to be a legitimate military cause. Now let me say something about another argument by Professor Stojanović, who would be convincing for preschool children (I may have gone a little too far, but not much). It is said that Professor Stojanovic and the foreign minister assure us that by withdrawing the suit against NATO members, we would condition the withdrawal of BiH and Croatia's lawsuits at the same time. I want to remind ourselves: didn't we, of course, completely unreasonablely and shamefully withdraw our lawsuit against BiH, so did this lead the Bosniak, local government to withdraw the lawsuit against us? It is now for preschool children - to convince this public that the Bosniak government, which did not want to withdraw its lawsuit when we withdrew ours, is a rush to withdraw its suit when we withdraw the suit against NATO members. Serious people, grown men can't believe that. It is understood that when you claim such a thing, you do not manage the legal logic, but rather by the logic of some of the ground-handling interests, and that is to be said publicly. Let's also say that whoever assures us that the withdrawal of the NATO Pact lawsuit would have consequences that were just spoken of, actually resembles someone who would've said something about a vehicle having all the conditions to go except for the fuel. I admit that's a great idea. There's only one small flaw, it can't be realized. So, if someone convinces us that this is the way we can proceed to withdraw the already mentioned two lawsuits, then he roughly, transparently, and, I would say, unintelligently deceives us. I'd also like to draw your attention to another argument that makes Professor... Stojanovic and his foreign minister. It's an argument of force. It's very interesting for a lawyer who was also a university professor who says that we little, weak, who we are, we can't guess with those who are big and powerful. I suppose many students of Professor Stojanovic are now judges. What's he teaching them? He's teaching them, ladies and gentlemen, that before they rule in some dispute, they'll assess who's stronger there. Of course, they judge for the benefit of one who's stronger. It's an argument of force, not an argument of law and a man would really understand that it does not come from one professor of law school as some kind of public justification for withdrawing a lawsuit against members of the NATO Pact. Let me say something about that argument of force in one other key. I understand that a small, economically submerged, and in the world the foretold state must make concessions, perhaps it must kneel, but, ladies and gentlemen, does it have to crawl? I don't think he has to, especially if one of those states isn't looking for it. It has already been said here, and it is well said, that even if we withdraw this lawsuit, nothing of our position in the eyes of the great forces would improve, because we are asked to hunt General Mladic down some rubbers, where no one knows where he is, so if we catch him, we deliver him to The Hague Court, then we will get some concessions that are hinted to us. What exactly do we get if we withdraw this lawsuit? We have also heard from Mr Draskovic's legal adviser and the foreign minister himself that this is in our best national interest. Let's see how much our national interest costs that weighs like this. BiH is asking us to pay $200 billion, Croatia about the same. If the international court ruled at least a fourth of that request, such a defence of national interest, which Mr Draskovic and his legal adviser advocate advocate, would cost us at least $100 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, who's gonna pay for this? That's what Mr. Minister's legal advisor made for us, it's what Mr. Minister made for us, but what they've coined, this people and the citizens of this country will wear. In the end, I'll be free to entertain you a little bit. When Bolsheviks first persuaded their husbands, then forced them to enter the colchose, a Bolshevik agitator comes into some colchoz to win the males for the colchoic thing and says that Comrade Michurin found the bees as big as sheep. Okay, says the male, what are the hives for those bees? He says this one-- ordinary ones. Now the male asks -- how can so many big bees get into such tiny hives? That's their problem -- says this Bolshevik agitator. So, ladies and gentlemen, this brilliant idea offered by Mr. Draskovic's legal advisor and the minister personally resembles those ugly bees, big as sheep, only we have no hives for those bees. I'll end up with that picture of me again -- if we have to kneel, we don't have to crawl, not just because, ladies and gentlemen, which is embarrassing, it is embarrassing, but also because it's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6541	One late replica, he'll get the word of the President of the Assembly. Here you go, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6542	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, first I'd like to ask your permission, because this is a good definition - a late replica. I had to see the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and I wasn't in a position to answer. Do you allow me to speak? It's a replica. Because I have no intention of arguing in any way, that's what we certainly don't need, but just to give a few facts about what's been said for this pay phone, and it was about my name. It's terrible, and I deeply believe that you're all aware of it, but when passions work out, every one of us happens to forget the facts and start cheering. Let's leave the dead alone. There were bombs falling around all of our heads, and then it wasn't hard to know, in 1999, that once the bombing was over, someone would try to abuse that accident immediately, either by reducing everything that was destroyed or by exaggerating. In this is the replica - as it was possible for the assessment of war damage to occur on June 19th. When the first bridge was destroyed, people gathered around me, belonging to different parties, were looking for a way to help their country, how to warn reasonable people about what was happening. The Bridges of Culture came into existence. I'm sorry to have to say all this. I don't think smart people beat themselves up for what they do for their country, but every one of us has to work, but since I'm called, I have to say. I called immediately, in the world and here, for people who are expert in doing war damage assessments based on all that is available, so that we don't get any later manipulations. They were working. And I've also invited intellectuals from all over the world that I'm working with to do something about; not those gatherings for one television camera, and all the honor, but to do something about where it's being decided. The result is, among other things, two books; not just actions that went around the world. One arrived as a result of a correspondence between me and George Conrad, and there are speeches held in the German Academy, and where are the signatures of German anti-bombing academics. The second is, on June 19th, we were able to come up with an assessment of the war damage that contained the data; on the basis of which it was created: on the basis of available data, real calculations and the costs of what is called a delayed loss. In the end, the tables of that delayed loss were given. Someone here said there was also war damage in the lawsuit, that it was 100 billion. Where do you think that information came from? The first media activity, I am sorry to remind the citizens of Serbia of that, was a statement by a certain Shea, who said the total damage is five billion. Then, it was a statement by an M.M., a man who at that time was prime minister, who claimed that the costs were 200 billion. (President: Time.) I'm asking you for your understanding. It's the data. I think it's important to all of us. The assessment, based on the costs available, of the need for war damage at the time of completion, without Kosovo's territory and without military facilities and military techniques, was 29 billion. They slowed it down both: and those who wanted to celebrate the disaster and profit on it, because they claimed that we had won; and those who wanted to reduce it, because they prevented the alleged humanitarian disaster. But it was a number everyone eventually confessed to. The figure of 100 billion just comes from that calculation, plus the delayed loss, on the scales that exist. I have to tell you something a lot of people forget sometimes. Serbia does not face war damage for the first time. Serbia was a winner after World War I. All international forces have acknowledged the exact size of war damage. You know how much is paid: three percent of all recognised war damages. Serbia has also been a victory within Yugoslavia since World War II, and all international forces have recognised war damages. War damage is paid, maybe many of us don't know, until 1993. You know how much it's paid: two plows, two thousand pieces. We were the winner's force. Whoever thinks we're the winner after what happened, I'm not accusing any political authority, but anyone who thinks we were the power of victory after 1999, so based on that account of such damage or political profit, he might learn a little bit about what was really going on. Ask your fathers what happened after World War II and ask your fathers, mothers and grandfathers what happened after World War I, so we know. (A voice from the O.R.: Time. (President: Please bring the end. ) Just one request: We are talking politically about who is responsible for each other, because we certainly need to discuss ourselves. Do you know who is responsible for Serbia being divided for ten years? Whoever is trying to divide Serbia again today is preparing for a foreign conqueror. I guess that'll be clear to everyone. It's a good thing it's being discussed here, and it didn't take this session, we could talk about it at the club, and I hope now, all the heads of Parliament, we'll talk in the cabinet at 14.15; we could sit down and talk, because we knew the answer. No one's here to drop the lawsuit unconditionally. No one's for that. Also, no one has the right to humiliate the assembly, that the assembly is sitting on the one minister's statement. And on the side that it is the minister's job to sometimes tactile, and question something, but the attitude of this assembly and all the parties here is clear -- there is no unconditional withdrawal of the lawsuit; but, political marketing on other people's misfortune, I hope there will also be no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6543	The word has a National MP, Free Zivkucin, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6544	Dear Professor Milosevic mentioned some dirty tailoring workshop by Vuk Draskovic. So, I have to inform you, unfortunately, that Vuk Draskovic does not own any tailoring workshop, but even if she did, she probably wouldn't be dirty and messy, but neat. That's one thing. The other thing is, you said you were inconclusive, even unintelligently trying to convince us that we were going to get some benefits from the possible withdrawal of the lawsuit. Yeah, we're trying to explain what it is that we're gonna get out as well after we drop the lawsuit. But you didn't even try to convince us unconvincingly or unintelligently, you didn't convince us what we're getting, as a nation and state, by insisting on the survival of the lawsuit. A short time ago, Mr. Markovic spoke vividly about how the recognised war reparations were charged. Isn't that enough to explain and teach when we're talking about this? If you really don't believe in the possibility of withdrawing a lawsuit coming to some nation-state benefit, then you have to believe deeply in the possibility that the survival of the lawsuit produces a verdict in our favor and that it produces a payment of war damage of $100 billion. If you really believe it, then it's fair to say it and take political responsibility for it. To believe such a thing, in our deep conviction, is not appropriate even for preschool adults, not for serious, responsible adults. So let us not use demagogue and not convince people of what we do not believe in. Let's let go of those stories for a while. This is a time for serious things and a time for serious responsibilities, and that's how we have to act. Let's be responsible and serious and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6545	National MP Nikola Milosevic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6546	I'd like Mr. Zivkucin to pay as much attention to me as I am to him and to be as kind as I am to hear what I'm about to say. Mr. Zivkucin has no hearing problems, he's already having trouble respecting those who think differently. There's no salvation for that. I can't teach him that. He can hardly learn where he came from and where he is now. (Sona Cekovic, from the scene: should all of us from the SPO now be replicating?) What does that look like? I warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ma'am, what do you look like when you're out of place, unregistered, you come in to talk to me. I listen carefully to everything the MPs say. I didn't throw anyone out of place, and I didn't interrupt anyone. I warn you to behave civilisedly and democraticly here. (Sanja Cekovic, from the scene: You hurt us all, because we all come from the SPO. (President: Please let the speaker say so, and I also ask you, Mr Milosevic, to treat the MPs with respect. ) Mr. Mikhailovich, remind those who interrupt me not to treat me with respect. That's what matters. I'm warning you of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here I was talking about Mr Draskovic, exclusively as the foreign minister, not as the president of the SPO. I never said a word to the SPO. When Mr. Zivkucin spoke to me by saying this to us, you, you to us, I, Mr. Zivkucin, did not speak to your stranger. Everything is said at the address of Mr Draskovic's foreign minister. Something else is understood, if you think Mr. Draskovic is the minister of foreign affairs of the Serbian Renewal Movement, then I withdraw everything I have said. But since I believe he's the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Government, then this is a harsh and open violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6547	Here, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6548	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The distinguished academic Nikola Milosevic insulted all of us who came from the SPO. I started the previous presentation by saying – the distinguished Professor Nikola Milosevic. That's what I think. I'm sure I didn't hurt and insult Mr Milosevic. But academic Milosevic seems a little more nervous and excited than he should be. This anxiety and excitement produced the fact that in his anxiety, he began to insult the MPs and thus showed that he did not respect them, which is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I still think that academic Nikola Milosevic is a respected member of this parliament, so I address him, and I just resent him and draw attention to him that he no longer does such ugly things - that he does not insult us. We understand what he's trying to tell us, we don't need to elaborate any further. I appeal to us in every subsequent approach with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6549	You're entitled to a replica, since it was also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6550	Here's a chance to remind Mr. Zivkucin once again that it's not polite to listen to what I'm about to say and that it's not polite not to listen to what I have to say. Mr. Zivkucin, I'd like you to sit down. And I sat there while you were talking, so don't let me remind you of something that's a matter of elementary domestic education. Mr. Zivkucin, I didn't say anything here at your party's address, but at the address of your letter that interrupted me while I was speaking from where I am now. Mr. Zivkucin is on the phone right now, holding his cell phone in his ear, of course, he doesn't care what I say, what he says about Mr. Zivkucin much. It's too much for any comment I'd like to add to what I've already said. Let me put it this way: anyone who breaks up someone who's got a legal and legitimate word here acts uncivilized and undemocratic, so let someone prove to me that that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6551	Thank you. Since it's close to 1400 hours, I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please determine the quorum before we begin. Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Svetislav Krstic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do not trust the natos and gifts when they bear you. The Pentagon and the CIA are not humanitarian organizations. NATO's terrorism of alliances... Ladies and gentlemen, we are familiar with the efforts of the international community to develop international criminal law and define crimes against peace, war crimes and crimes against humanity, the principles of responsibility for these crimes and the obligation of the states to write these crimes down by their legislation and to prosecute their perpetrators. Today, however, at this time, all principles and norms of international humanitarian, social and criminal law have been violated, primarily by the economic and military most powerful force in the world. Using their power, without any responsibility, international humanitarian law standards have now been replaced by force, which is particularly manifested through all forms of special war, international state terrorism and aggression. All these forms of force enforcement were most prominently sung towards the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If it's going to stop on it, it's going to show time. What else can be explained to declare the U.S. territory an SRJ zone of national interest other than hegemonic goals? NATO's leading countries had a far-reaching goal of possessing the SRJ territory and thus achieving the strategic goals and interests known to them, beyond all international rules and norms. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with about ten million inhabitants, is a country of rich historical past, which has always appreciated and defended its freedom and independence, which has never shown any claim towards neighbouring countries' territories. She never fought in other people's territory, and always by war she defended her freedom and independence. The Republic of Serbia is a multinational community of citizens, in whose southern provinces Kosovo and Metohija live several national communities: Serbs, Albanians, Turks, Muslims, Gorans and Roma. Seeing that unremembered sanctions and isolation could not achieve their hegemonistic goals, key NATO pact states developed a criminal plan for the application of force and aggression towards the SRJ, so they took the following measures. Using the already existing separatist movement of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, weapons, training and material resources enabled the creation and operation of a terrorist organisation called the Kosovo Liberation Army, which committed unprecedented crimes in this area towards Serbian life. At the same time, they organised such propaganda centres that they satanicated the Serbian people with lies and half-truths to such an extent as to justify what they planned to do. At the same time, such an informative blockade was established that no true information could reach the world. Under the Constitution of the SRJ, and in practice, all national minorities, like all citizens of the country, enjoy rights according to the highest world standards. But with their propaganda machine, they placed news of the alleged threat of Albanians in Yugoslavia, and the calculation of security forces with terrorists has shown that they are dealing with an Albanian national minority, directing news of the alleged humanitarian disaster in the world, creating a false impression of the need to take power towards the SRJ, in order to protect Albanian living. It should be noted that 26 national minorities or ethnic groups live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who feel nothing at risk in their rights. The problem of Albanians is not in their rights, but in their separatism. They organised alleged talks by representatives of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of the Albanian minority in Rambuje, for which they had prepared the text of an alleged agreement, which represents the ultimatum of Serbia and Yugoslavia to withdraw from Kosovo and Metohija all special and military forces and to allow NATO's pact forces to enter not only Kosovo and Metohija but into the territory of the whole country, without any responsibility for a period of three years, when the Albanian national minority in Kosovo and Metohija should decide on its fate in a referendum. The directors of those negotiations knew that the alleged agreement meant a voluntary occupation of Yugoslavia and agreement for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija and that the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia could not accept it, but they organised these negotiations to justify the planned aggression. Finally, on March 24, 1999, 19 of the world’s most developed countries, with their military technique, fell from the sea and from the air into a small country. In 78 days, 1,200 planes, with 26,280 flights, more than 2,900 bombs and missiles and about 1,000 cruise missiles were launched, so about 22,000 tonnes of the most destructive explosives were dropped on the territory of the SRJ, of which 152 containers with 35,450 cluster bombs, banned international conventions and international law. The effects of aggression were catastrophic: more than 2,500 were killed and more than 10,000 people were wounded; 30% were killed and 40% were injured by children, who were in the highest number of victims of delayed-activated tape bombs. A 121 industrial facility has been destroyed, causing more than 600,000 workers to run out of work and about 2.500,000 citizens without funds to meet the basic needs of life. More than 480 schools, colleges and facilities for students, students and children were significantly damaged or completely destroyed, so nearly a million students and students broke up at that time of schooling. Ten homes of health and three hospitals were destroyed, while 77 homes of health were significantly damaged, 30 hospitals and two special institutions for treating patients, with 16 dead patients and healthcare professionals. More than 7,000 military institutions and housing facilities, eight federal and republican ministries and institutions in downtown Belgrade have been destroyed or significantly damaged. The NR China embassy was destroyed and destroyed. The destruction of oil refineries, heat, energy and oil storage plants produced an ecological disaster of large proportions, and only by the fact that the risk of an ecological disaster has been avoided for the entire European continent. The destruction of trafostations and power lines and damage to thermal power plants, with the use of prohibited graphite bombs, has made it impossible to supply the population with electricity. 60 bridges, 19 railways, 34 highways and 13 airports were destroyed or significantly damaged, so the traffic on the main roads and the closed waterway across the Danube was disabled. During NATO aggression, 365 religious sites and cultural and historical monuments, some of them protected by UNESCO, were destroyed or damaged. To cover up the truth about the effects of aggression, buildings, equipment, RTS, as well as all relays and radio and TV transmitters were destroyed, and 16 workers were killed. More than 1,000 Serbs and Montenegrins have been massacred, and over 1,000 have been kidnapped and their fate is unknown, within a month of KFOR's arrival in Kosovo and Metohija. More than 40,000 Serbian houses and apartments were burned, robbed or possessed, and more than 130 monasterys and religious facilities were burned. More than 300,000 Serbs and Montenegrins have been expelled from Kosovo and their property has been robbed. This is not a falsification, ladies and gentlemen, especially for those who say this proposal is pure forgeries. If this is a fake, let them ask the U.S. Congress and parliamentarians who filed a lawsuit against Bill Clinton and others for violating the 1973 War Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the NATO Alliance and the United States' aggression against Yugoslavia has been carried out past and without the UN's and Security Council's consent. Here it is trying to show, explain and plant that the subsequent UN Assembly and the Security Council approved it. That was never approved. The aggression against the SRJ was committed and the following legal regulations were violated in international relations: the UN Charter, the 1975 Helsinki Document, the 1949 Geneva Convention, the 1977 Protocol. The agresors violated the constitutions and laws of their states. And their own agreement, which they signed in 1949, also violated in the harshest way. The first provision of their statutes, primarily NATO, stipulates that the Alliance should be organised and act in accordance with the UN Charter. This wasn't the case. As their kind of arbiter, NATO and the United States have flagrantly violated the UN Charter and committed criminal aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Even, as I mentioned earlier, in the U.S. Congress, a group of congressmen filed a lawsuit against the president of the United States for breaking what I said was the 1973 War Act. Hundreds of houses were bombed during the aggression in Yugoslavia. In 1999, the United States and NATO launched the war against Yugoslavia for the same reasons for which they eventually invaded Cuba, Puerto Rico and Philippines. They do not care about the lives of Yugoslav workers more than they cared about the rights of workers and farmers in Cuba, Puerto Rico or the Philippines. Someone will say yes, but that was 100 years ago, but let's remember the near past of World War II, the Korean War, the overthrow of the elected governments of Guatemala, Iran, Chile, Indonesia, Argentina, the wars of Central America, the invasion of Lebanon, and the Palestinians and Kurds, the killings of Patris Lumumbe in Congo, the support of the fascist apartheid in South Africa, the monstrosity war in Indiana, in which they lost the lives of millions of Vietnamese and Cambodians. This still hasn't exhausted the list of crimes committed by the Pentagon and the CIA along with their accomplices. Given this terrible and bloody data, should we believe that there was a President Clinton, any Madeline Albright, whether General Wesley Clark, whether British or French leaders, were equally bloody, even on rare occasions acting in the name of human rights? No, it would be funny, and no one can believe it, because it's against reason and logic. As I said, you know, ladies and gentlemen, you must all admit that NATO, the Pentagon and the CIA did not have any humanitarian organizations and they had nothing to look for in the property they came to the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I have to tell you something, Saint Peter Cetitski told the Montenegrins: Montenegrins, you know what you're doing, but you don't know, Montenegrins, what it is you're doing. So, gentlemen, you who oppose this resolution, think about what you're doing and do you know what you're doing, what you're doing? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Panchevo was an ecological disaster in Europe, the only city that was sent down to thousands of tons of bombs, destroying missiles, where 40,000 Pancevans had to be evacuated, the consequences of which many Pancians and their children died. Today, the results of NATO's actions are still felt, and I note that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not invested any dinars within four years to improve the production of strategic products in factories of particular national interest, such as the oil refinery, Petrochemy and Azotar. These are buildings of particular national importance, and the government of the Republic of Serbia does not invest a single penny to help these companies that have been destroyed and whose facilities have been worn out, but the government is forcing them to produce the worst products they have to export, but filters and needs of Petrochemy workers, Refinery and Azotare do not take into account nor help Pančevs, and cancers die hundreds a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6554	The word has a folk MP, Svetislav Krstic, and after that, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6555	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I wanted to ask our president, Mr Markovic, but I don't know if it makes any sense because he's not here. Because he, like the real boss, opened up the store and left, and we here to work. I wanted to ask him - why is no one from the Council of Ministers invited to this session, or yesterday? The most logical thing would be to invite the president, to be invited and to attend this session of foreign ministers, so that they can hear the stance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia over the NATO lawsuit. I think it's logical and I don't understand why it didn't happen. But I have to say that the previous speaker at the end of the presentation gave me the creamworth and the things he put out are really facts. These facts are just a guarantee that the lawsuit our country filed against NATO, if there is any international justice, will be resolved in our favour. During NATO aggression, I was the head of rehabilitation and protection in the oil industry of Serbia, and I know best what it all looked like. I'd like to give you a few facts on the basis of which you can see the essence of this aggression. I will remain in the domain of NIS and the city of Novi Sad where I live. First, if someone wanted the Pancheva Refinery to be a fuel-generating refinery, among other things, for military purposes, out of use, then it was enough to hit the power plant in the refinery that supplied the refinery with energy, which was done. In the first attack on the Refinery in Panchev, there was a target on the power plant. Energana's down. After that, the refinery can't produce for at least six months. So, the refinery's out of use. Then why was it necessary to bomb the refinery infrastructure, the process facilities, the tank space? The same case was in the refinery in Novi Sad. The target is a process facility, a tank space has been shot. How's the target tank space? Only one example, when one tank was hit after the plane crash and oil was lit and it started to expire; the tanks have so-called tanks whose task is to prevent oil or derivatives from entering the country. Since the tank was left intact, in the second run-in after 10 minutes, the plane was firing at the same tank to hit the tank and to get that oil into the ground. The new Sad was practically nonstop for those 78 days under a permanent ecological disaster. A few tens of thousands of tons of oil burned down, but the smaller part burned down. Most of it's gone to the ground, drained. And now, as I speak, slowly moves and pollutes the layers of water from which Novi Sad and its surroundings are supplied with drinking water. Only for the remediation of land around the New Sad oil refinery needs over $60 million. The total damage done to NIS is about 1,700,000 euros. That's roughly a 15-year salary of 19,000 NIS employees. Another example that makes it clear that the lawsuit brought against the NATO Pact countries (I repeat, if there is any international justice), will be resolved in our favour, which is what the NATO Pact and Americans are afraid of because they know what they've done, it's targeting the separator. In the New Sad refinery, there are three water separators that were used in the technological process; before being released into the canal, it means, in the waterway, that water passes through these separators in the Danube. They were hit. Of the three separators, one was completely destroyed, one was severely damaged, and one was missed. Obviously, the goal was to cause an ecological disaster. The effects of aggression continue today. Namely, the fact that there is a significant increase in the level of malignant disease in children in Novi Sad and the wider environment is the non-public data, but it is a fact and it can be checked. The result is precisely an ecological disaster that was caused by the burning of large amounts of oil. Oil contains several dozen carcinogenic substances, especially crude oil. Thus, the entire environment was contaminated practically for three months with a huge amount of carcinogenic matter. The consequences of this will continue for a very long time and we do not have the moral right to forgive such things and to be naive and to believe that if we withdraw the complaint, something much better will happen to us, etc. I can say, listening to this discussion in the congregation in the last two days, today and yesterday, that we have oscillated between naive and surrealism. It's naive what I just said, if anyone thinks pulling a lawsuit is gonna happen to us. The Partnership for Peace aims to drag us in so that our army and our boys will go there to fight the gourds of Afghanistan, against Al-Qaeda and who knows whose interests. What's going on? Let's be realistic. Why is the issue of October or the court meeting in The Hague in October of the month? Because in November, there are presidential elections in America. America has, and NATO pact as an extended hand of America, serious problems with its allies in Europe. Did you see what happened in Spain? It was enough to make one big boom and the Spanish to pull their troops, though they were members of the NATO Pact. The situation is similar and there are great pressures to do so by other members of the NATO Pact. As you know, some of the NATO pact members have not even agreed to participate in the invasion of Iraq. America has serious problems, and its task is to preserve NATO's pact. How will it preserve him, if the court finds that the countries of NATO are guilty of Yugoslavia's aggression? It will only be an additional drop to convince the governments of those countries that NATO is their problem and that they are actually serving America's policies through NATO. I think it's a political reality, and that's why it's very important to the West, and above all to America, to withdraw the lawsuit our country filed. So we have to keep in mind everything that's happened and we can't look into the future by being blind to what happened to us in the immediate past. We can't look into the future without being blind to the consequences of the past. There have been a lot of stories here about the past ten years, etc., and you can see the polarization that exists in the Assembly. The majority here, as far as I'm concerned, of not withdrawing that lawsuit. Then how can we tolerate that the foreign minister representing the country's policy publicly declares that the lawsuit should be dropped immediately? Someone said that, and I want to say that we socialists think that Mr. Secretary is being blackmailed, too. A classic method for the West to serve, which is -- you get us to drop the lawsuit, and we don't want to sue you. That's the policy we've seen used a lot. I think it would be fair if Mr. Secretary said - I can't do the duty, I'm being blackmailed, and that's why someone who can't be blackmailed and who isn't on Hague charges should come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6556	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6557	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an initiative by the SRS Parliament Club to propose a resolution banning the withdrawal of the SRJ lawsuit against eight NATO member states was prompted by the unmoved statements by Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, which are contrary to the opinion, views and decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. His statements that Serbs were conducting ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija, that they should withdraw the SRJ suit against NATO, as well as that Serbs should go to the parliamentary elections in Kosovo and Metohija are statements that cause huge and inconspicuous damage to Serbs and Serbian people, statements that neither NATO leaders want to make publicly. I want to remind you, Hans Lokwai, the former OSCE representative in Kosovo and Metohija, said -- ethnic cleansing, genocide, humanitarian disaster and the Racak case are just an excuse for bombing the SRJ. So that's one opinion, and there's a lot of such opinions in the world. When did Mr. Vuk Draskovic say that Serbs were doing ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija? Just after the March events, when the Shipari, the Cypriot terrorists and separatists, in a well-organised and very cruel way, killed 29, wounded over 100, expelled over 4,000 Serbs, destroyed and burned hundreds of Serbian properties and households, burned and destroyed 29 churches and monasteries, all in the presence of NATO forces in large numbers in Kosovo and Metohija. The whole world condemned the March events as ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Gregory Johnson, commander of NATO's southern wing for Europe, said it was an ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Then when the whole world, including NATO leaders, condemns the March events in Kosovo and Metohija as ethnic cleansing, when they declare they were powerless, found to prevent such events, Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic declares - and Serbs are doing ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija! I would like to remind Mr. Vuk Draskovic that in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, there has never been a threat to the Cypriot people, that Serbs have never done ethnic cleansing, that there has never been a humanitarian disaster, that those columns of Shipara that he viewed as a BBC are just well-designed and pre-prepared actions by the Cypriot separatists and terrorists on the alleged threat and humanitarian disaster of the Cypriot people in Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to remind Mr. Vuk Draskovic that the victims in Kosovo and Metohija are Serbs, not Shipari, that they had made their progress just after they claimed to be oppressed, harassed by Serbia. The truth is quite the opposite: Serbs have been harassed and oppressed in the last few decades in Kosovo and Metohija. We recall Vuk Draskovic's statement in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when we adopted the Chernomidin-Ahtisari plan, when he praised the alleged peace mission by comparing them with the blue helmets, that in Kosovo and Metohija the international force would seduce order, work and prosperity, and the opposite -- ethnic cleansing, humanitarian disaster, chaos, terror and misery from the arrival of the Kosovo and Metohija occupiers, the period that is the scariest and most terrible for Serbs and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija is today a black hole in Europe, a place where people, drugs and weapons, a paradise for crime and criminals, a paradise for terrorists, and hell for all those who do not want crime and terrorism, and especially for Serbs and the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic's statement -- it is necessary to withdraw the SRJ suit against NATO, and his reasons and explanations are also contrary to the opinion and attitude of all relevant political factors in Serbia. "It is evil to forget," said Mihajlo Lalic. Our foreign minister is right now doing evil by asking the SRJ suit against NATO to withdraw. Why does he want to release the responsibilities of NATO members who have committed unprecedented aggression and bombed SRJ 78 days and nights? The lawsuit must remain, and the court must decide whether there was aggression, whether there was genocide, whether there was a rude violation of international obligations by NATO members, the rules of war, the use of forbidden weapons. Why prejudge the court's decision, let the court resolve it in October of the month. Recently, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Declaration and Plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. A decision has been reached unanimously in this congregation. The SPO MPs also voted not to go out in these elections in Kosovo and Metohija until the conditions of the Declaration are met and accept or implement the Government of the Republic of Serbia's plan for Kosovo and Metohija. When all against the election of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, contrary to the decision of his parliamentary club in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, declares and recommends that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija go to the 23 October 2004 parliamentary elections. Why? The only reason is because of the personal nature, the reason for fulfilling the wishes of the world's powers, the reason for blindness to the powers of the world. There's no other reason. You cannot, Mr. Minister, build a friendship with world powers on the Kosovo and Metohija Serb disaster. Have you forgotten 17 March, crime and murder, ethnic cleansing, Serb persecution from their hearth? Over 4,000 families were expelled, 4,000 Serbs. How do you think Serbs organize to go to these parliamentary elections? Have you forgotten that the exiled Serbs from Obilić, from Swinjar? How do they go to their polling station? You're not interested in all this. You're only interested in the deaf execution of the wishes and orders of the world's powers. I appeal to this assembly to adopt this resolution recommended by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6558	The People's Messenger Marko Krstin has the word, followed by the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to those who believe it is justified and necessary for the National Assembly to declare such an important issue that is essentially affecting the sovereign, national interests of the Republic of Serbia. I think this debate is welcome to really discuss what needs to be done with the lawsuit now in front of the International Court of Justice. As a lawyer, I think this lawsuit should stand as it stands; we'll see how the court rules, we need to make our arguments. I think we agree on this, that this is about one of the most hopeless aggressions, about a crime against a people living in the Republic of Serbia. I think that's what we all agree on and that this is not a question right now. We also agree that this lawsuit is not for withdrawal, it's for processing. As a lawyer and as a lawyer, I could say one more thing. With that lawsuit, we can negotiate. The possibility of negotiations should not be excluded. But, of course, nothing in Serbia should be prejudged, and no one should be allowed to distribute himself to what belongs to the sovereign citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore necessary that any decision on this action be made before a statement in this assembly and that, in accordance with that statement, we give an order to our representatives in the federal assembly, that is, in the assembly of the federal state, how they will be declared and how the authorities of that State will plead. I also believe that the foreign minister's statement is indeed premature, that there is no basis in our decision and that we cannot thus plead in international relations. Unfortunately, I was surprised by the statements by some of the former foreign ministers, and I would particularly like to apostrophe Vladislav Jovanovic, particularly on the issue. I remember very well, unfortunately, his statements that were in the sense that it was nothing, that the sanctions would last three months, that there would be no bombings, they were much more irresponsible statements than this statement. Unfortunately, there have been no consequences for that, except from those statements, there may have been something that's been very negative, and that's exactly what we're talking about right now. So this debate is necessary and I think it's the right time and the right place to talk about it. However, I was a little surprised at the announcement of this debate, that the motionors who proposed the resolution, at least that's how the newspaper interpreted it, immediately divided into someone who was going to betray and someone who was a patriot. I don't want to share and I don't want to label anyone in this congregation as a patriot or a traitor. I think we agree that this is a key issue for the sovereign, national and other beings of the Republic of Serbia. If we're already talking about patriots and traitors, as a lawyer, I could say that the lawsuit exists for me, that it has a basis for the lawsuit to succeed, that it has a basis to succeed especially her claim for damages. I'd go with that until we see what the court decides, at least until that moment until it decides whether he's in charge or not. Say, "never a slave," "he was a goddamn traitor" and similar flossules don't have any legal facts for me, and there's really no room for them in this resolution. I cannot support such expressions because they do not have legal facts and shares of citizens and parts of MPs in this assembly. I don't think there are any traitors or patriots in this congregation. We're all patriots. I don't think this division really was necessary, and I'd like to believe it's not in the function of choice, but I'm not sure. I really wish it wasn't in the function of choice. Sometimes it seems like we're trying to retouch things. I'd like to see Serbia as a single ship with a helm, a crew and a burden to drive. In 1999, the ship was run by the helm; it was headed by the SPS; there was a Serbian Radical Party in the government. That ship came where it came from, got into a storm, got a good kick in that storm. We are now talking about the consequences of that storm that we entered. I think I have a right to talk about this. I wasn't in any party in 1999. I was just a citizen. I took part in two wars, in that 1991 and this second war. I have to give you my own impressions and impressions of the people who were with me in the unit. The war began with the attack on Novi Sad, to remind you, at 20 o'clock on March 23, 1999. I've been on the balcony since the circumstances. It was a terrible flash. People were screaming and falling down. That was a hundred meters from the Mayan barracks, where the first bomb went down. I turned on the TV to see if the Supreme Command would give a statement, whether Serbia was attacked. The commander-in-chief, in the image of Slobodan Milosevic, was receiving someone somewhere, smiling like nothing was happening. At four o'clock in the morning, I got a call and I responded to the mobilization, and so 78 days. I'm really sorry, and I can't imagine what I've seen and what I've experienced and I can't help but feel like it's really a criminal aggression on this earth. I wanted to ask why we were under aggression for 78 days, why haven't we been under aggression for eight days? Imagine how many more people would be alive if we were under aggression for eight days. I wanted to ask you something else. When the ship's commander led, and the ship was run by the SPS and the Serbian Radical Party, does he, when he sees the storm approaching, assess whether to enter that storm cloud or maybe move into some port, bind the ship and wait for it to pass? What estimates did you have when you believed ten Migg 29s could beat thousands of planes? What estimates did you have when you knew we were being shot at at 11,000 feet or somewhere in the Adriatic and I don't know where from anymore, and we have anti-aircraft tools that can throw three kilometers and we've shot in the face? What estimate did you have, I really don't know, when you knew the missiles we had could only be used if the radar located the facility, and the ones from the plane released the rocket in seven seconds? I've been looking at people who have been torn apart by missiles. I've been watching these people. Those records you took to where you took them are also my signature. You weren't estimating it. You cared about what was going on. I'm just curious if someone would answer me why you didn't interrupt after eight days, why 78 days? You said so many people died, so many objects were destroyed. That's right. Why didn't we interrupt after ten days? More people would live. Smaller objects would be destroyed. That's what I'm asking you. You didn't have any judgments. There was a war as it was fought. They killed people as they died. Why stop it? Then it broke up because NATO wasn't supposed to fall apart. NATO hasn't fallen apart today, as I see it. There are really facts you can't answer. Why did the war last so long? What did you do to stop the war? What were the estimates? Who was Serbia's ally not to come to that? That's all the things that were very bad. This led, among other things, to this greatest tragedy for the Serbian people. Now I'm gonna go back to the legal part of it. Of course, I wouldn't be talking about this if I hadn't spent ten years of my life so "nice" in two wars. The resolution we have before us has several legal defects. They're pretty big legal defects. I'd call it a closing act. You cannot impose the rights and obligations of any individual by resolution. It's strictly the matter of the law, because it's governed by Article 12. The Constitution of Serbia. To impose obligations in this way, as you do, MPs, ministers, etc. a, of course, the futility of their rights and obligations cannot be imposed by the resolution, because their rights and obligations are established by the Constitution and by law. The resolution of rights and obligations cannot be changed, and the ban and futility can also be changed. You're stifling a new crime you call a statement. That's point 3. I would suggest that you may make an amendment to the Penal Code, but I'd like to point out that it's an 115. Penal Code Stimulated Crime Recognising Capitulation and occupation. It is said: "The citizen who does the work will be guided to recognize the capitulation and occupation of the state or part of its territory will be punished by imprisonment for at least five years." Similarly, it contains the Constitution in Article 51. I wanted to remind you that the effect of the Kumanovo Agreement is that a quarter of Serbia's territory is under foreign occupation and that someone signed it. I know General Kalafatovic signed a April breakdown, but I'm asking if you remember a cowardly general who was pushed to sign it. For this, of course, no one has answered, and treason would be to negotiate something. So that's not good for you in the resolution either. It is not enough to protect the Republic of Serbia only from statements of withdrawal or a statement of withdrawal from the suit. There is another legal institute, which should really be protected and that can give real negative consequences. That would be some constructive contribution to today's debate, along with this so far. The procedure can be terminated by alignment. I think there will also be elements for alignment. Since I felt it was necessary to discuss this in the Assembly, I feel obliged to propose a motion for the text of the resolution, as this assembly could adopt. I'd like to read you that text. I think he deserves your attention. "Decision on the withdrawal, abandonment or settlement of Serbia-Montenegro's state union suit against eight NATO countries is of fundamental national interest to the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia tasks representatives of the Republic of Serbia in the bodies of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to seek and generally respect the position of the assembly as the highest representative of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Without such a decision, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot make a decision on the withdrawal, withdrawal or settlement of the Serbia-Montenegro state union lawsuit against eight NATO countries."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6560	Just tell me the basis for the replica. The basis for the replica – the mention of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6561	My fellow MPs, I must say this is terrible for me. I understand that each of us has experienced aggression in its own way and has different impressions, feelings. I can understand that in a different way, everything that's been going on is being interpreted. But now, in 2004, saying things like this I've heard from fellow Christians, it's really incorrect, immoral and embarrassing. We didn't bomb NATO, they bombed us. We couldn't stop the aggression after three, two, five or eight days, but the aggression was interrupted when something in our hands could have been. That's something we're talking about today. This is the basis for eventually restoring Kosovo and Metohija. That something is guaranteed in the United Nations. That something will be the basis for the negotiations. It's very simple. I must say, my colleague surprised me with this story today, because as a learned man he must have been in a position to read that Americans did not want negotiations, that they did not want essential autonomy for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I mentioned it yesterday, but I have to say it one more time, the BBC quoted Richard Holbrooke as saying in 1998 that he had agreed with the KLA to be their right-hand man in the Balkans. Madlen Albright said they did not want an agreement to be reached in Rambuje, however many Serbs guarantee essential autonomy. They won't do it. Why won't they? That's what you have to ask them. If we had accepted Rambui, we would have NATO in Yugoslavia, we would have it both in Kosovo and Metohija, and three years later we would have a referendum. What do you think the decision of the majority people in Kosovo and Metohija would be? Tell this Serbia honestly that this lawsuit is withdrawn. Do not try to defend indefensiblely, to equate Vladislav Jovanovic and Vuk Draskovic. A colleague told me yesterday that it doesn't matter, all this talk, that a man said it, so he said it and so on. I said, for example, if the governor of the National Bank came out and said inflation was 30%, you'd see chaos on the financial market. So it's not like it doesn't matter. It does, gentlemen, everything has to do. If you're up for dropping the lawsuit, go out and say it, better than saying you're not up for it, but this isn't good. You can't change the facts. The facts are very simple: NATO has decided to bomb the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to establish a protectorate in Kosovo and Metohija, NATO has decided to give support to the KLA, NATO has bombed our country for 78 days, NATO has done hundreds of billion dollars in damage. (President: Time. NATO has an obligation to pay for it. If you appreciate that we have to withdraw the lawsuit ourselves, say it. Then we'd drop the lawsuit and then we'd be gone. Say it, don't hide behind different formulas that don't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6562	Mr. Krstin has his word on the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to inform all MPs, because I've been tolerateting a violation of Article 96 for months. The rules of procedure, which explicitly states that only the president or authorised representative of the parliamentary group can be contacted in respect of the Rules of Procedure. (Most of the Messengers present are greatly insolent.) ) I apologize, it is the text of the previous Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6563	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. Rules of Procedure. The MP was offended by saying that I said something was a shame. For me, what happened in those ten years is the hardest part of life. I can say that for most citizens of the New Now, that's exactly how it is. I didn't just bring out my impressions, I brought out the impressions of people who were in the unit with me, the people I'm talking to. I'd like to forget about it and not remember it anymore. Yet, gentlemen, you have opened here a question of patriotism, heroism. Who are you talking about? Who's ashamed to say that? I'm not ashamed. I didn't decide if I was gonna stop with Tyson in the ring. If someone asked me to let my son stand with Tyson in the ring, and I don't know if you'd let your son go, I wouldn't have given it. I'd think about it, I'd kneel if I were the president of this country until this country is free from the threat of bombing. It's not done. We've been getting it done. It's no shame what I said, I told you what the citizens of New Now think.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6564	The word has been made by the People's MP Milomir Miniæ, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6565	Dear fellow MPs, I'm responding to the Rules of Procedure, because I don't think my colleague has told the truth. I think he told a lie, and I wouldn't use a stronger, harder expression. (President: Please, Mr Minicum, specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. ) I am advocating Article 97. The Rules of Procedure - an MP has to tell the truth. I've been to negotiations both in Paris and Rambouje. There was no negotiation. Dear fellow MPs, there was no negotiation there at all. It's true what I'm saying, and it says it in the documents. We didn't intimate with the world, we kneeled. All the agreements from Rambuje had only two key points: one was that Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were then asked to sign that Kosovo was not Serbian but Albanian, and the other was that Serbia and Yugoslavia accepted by their signature that NATO, without any restrictions, occupied the country. We didn't do it. Let's let go of the political parties and let go of the time. That's where we kneeled. There's a document on all this. I'd like the MPs to get that document. The Republic of Serbia has given autonomy to Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija who do not know the modern world. The document was hidden, it was submitted, but it exists in the full documentation of the Rambuje negotiations and in Paris. Let's compare all the declarations, and now we're in the Council of Europe, compare all the autonomys that exist in the world, and I'm only saying this because of the truth, and not because of the debate that is being used here, so you'll see what autonomy Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija get. People's MPs, regardless of what we think differently, but Serbia needs to know that Serbia kneeled in both Paris and Rambouje and that we have done everything possible to avoid war. I could talk about a lot of other facts, but it's time for this reaction to be limited, because I don't think Serbia knows, because there's aggression, what kind of documents, what they say, but those documents are hidden. There are notes. The notes have been made and are here in the archives of the National Assembly. I'm only saying all this out of responsibility to the truth. I want to tell the MPs what it was like there at those negotiations and what it didn't look like. The time will come, that documentation will be drawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6566	The word of the Messenger of the people is Nrenislav Peric; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milos Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing or dropping an action brought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against NATO member states for damages committed during the 1999 bombing was on the agenda only because Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic has been dealing with the issue of withdrawing the NATO state lawsuit for two months now. He does it every day on TV and in the press. A question arises whose interest and who does this minister work for? It is inadmissible and nowhere in the world is that the foreign minister goes around the world and speaks against his country and his people. I want to make one comparison: what would happen to the foreign minister of any NATO country if he made statements as our minister. It is clear to us, as well as to all Serbian citizens, that NATO is exerting unprecedented pressure, blackmail and threats to Serbia-Montenegro to drop the suit. It is quite clear that the defendants of NATO states know they are guilty of acts of aggression and thus exerts unprecedented pressure to drop the suit. No wonder they do it. It's strange what our officials from the top of the country do. The position of the Socialist Party of Serbia is as follows: in terms of responsibility, the situation of NATO states is clear; they have committed aggression, without any reason or resolution of the United Nations Security Council, committed serious war crimes against the civilian population, committed genocide against the Serb people. These bombings have caused huge damage, both to the state and to individuals, over a hundred billion US dollars, and this damage should be fully compensated. The complaint that the defendants of NATO countries made, that at the time of the SRJ lawsuit, he was not a member of the United Nations, was unfounded and incorrect. Why did the U.S. try to get us kicked out of the United Nations, and both times that didn't work out for them? Why were they trying to kick us out if we weren't members? The United Nations General Assembly resolution, number 47/1 of 1992, suspended only the right to vote, which was subsequently extended to the right of play, but still remained a member of the United Nations, which is accompanied by three large facts: the retained mission of the SRJ to the United Nations in Geneva and New York, which regularly worked and in full composition; each year the SRJ regularly paid membership fees to the United Nations, unlike the United States, which owe two billion dollars. It is very strange that no one has ever used a very strong argument against NATO countries before. It is clear to all of us long ago that NATO member states have used ammunition in war operations against the Yugoslav Army with impoverished uranium. It is evident that the teams for Serbia-Montenegro's atomic-biological-chemical defence and the Vinca Institute's expert team were found on the hill of Oljačekvica near Vranja bullet with impoverished uranium. The same bullets were found on the Lushtica Peninsula on the edge of Bokokoctor's Bay. That these bullets have a devastating fact of human health has established an Italian court, condemning a woman whose husband, serving in Cosmet, earned lung cancer. If we add to all of this that from 1999 to 2000 the number of cancer deaths increased by 20% in central Serbia, then it is clear that it has begun to "work" the poored uranium. The question is how much more damage we'll suffer and how many years will it take. Because of all this, we believe that the damage is even greater than it was shown in the assessment and there is no money that can pay for what we have survived. NATO states should pay war damage, no great fuss and no trial whatsoever. As for the compensation of war damage, it is the inalienable right of our country, which does not go out of date, and therefore no one has the moral right to deny by the authorities the state and the people the right to compensate for war damage. Finally, the withdrawal of the lawsuit against the aggressor countries would mean the acceptance and loss of national interest and the practical imposition of a foreign protectorate to our country and our people. At the same time, it would mean giving permission in advance to all future aggressors that, under fictitious moral and humanitarian pronunciation, they are subduing less and weaker states and by their own will impose power to serve the interests of a country or a group of the most powerful countries in the world. The performance of Vuk Draskovic suggests that he was most likely blackmailed by The Hague because of the participation of his paramilitary units. Vuk Draskovic is therefore the only one to be found in The Hague, not all those who are there. (President: I warn you, according to the Rules of Procedure, on time. ) That is why, in order to avoid The Hague, he accepted that he was working to withdraw the lawsuit against eight NATO countries. They will most likely advocate that the lawsuit against NATO states is withdrawn and all those who fled the country during the bombing and were in countries that did us war damage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult today for this speaker to explain that the lawsuit against the NATO state should be dropped. This issue is not about state foreign policy, but about party foreign policy. I hope the Wolf isn't the only one who decides to drop the lawsuit. Where are they, when it comes to the state, Kostunica, Tadic or the Serbian government? Why did we choose them, why did we spend so much money on their choices, and yet we haven't paid off the election boards? I'm not sure if Kostunica has been informed, because it always says he's uninformed. If Vuk Draskovic had used diplomacy and energy, as much as he used to withdraw the lawsuit, otherwise - that the damage would be charged, I believe the war damage would have been charged. Because what it is for NATO countries is a lot of them, when they share it with each other, it's only a few billion per country, and it's nothing for developed countries. That's not the problem. The problem here is to admit they're aggressors, to be convicted of war crimes. We could also agree in this part without court and without hard words, if there is wisdom and diplomacy in this country, that the war damage of NATO will make up for us by the assessment that has been done. In the papers, let them baptize as this compensation will be called -- whether it will be a help to rebuild the destroyed objects, whether it will be a loan, where it will stand not to return, let them decide. That would be all we can do today and not disrupt further relationships. As you imagined, by withdrawing the lawsuit you won't help them much, you'll only delay it while you're in power. I'm sure someone else will come to the new election, who'll ask for it to be charged. Because the devil does not rest, he always comes for himself. At the very end, I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues not to change the thesis for this speaker. It's one thing to fight political opponents in the country, and another thing is to justify the aggression and bombing of our country. Some of the speakers learned education in foreign countries, so when they go out for a pay phone, they mix everything up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6568	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Jevtic has the word. The next speaker is, and that will probably be tomorrow, Milivove Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6569	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indisputable that the topic we have before us today and that we are discussing deserves our attention and that it should be discussed. What I would like to say and what I want to pay attention to is a matter of procedural nature, and that is primarily the responsibility of this Parliament to discuss this resolution. It unequivocally stems from the Constitutional Charter and its Article 19th that the relevant assembly of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is to discuss this resolution, as it is clearly said in the said article that the assembly is competent to decide, above all, on international law and conventions establishing obligations for Serbia-Montenegro's co-operation with international courts. The aforementioned position of Article 19 does not mention the prior consent of the Assembly of the Republic of Members, while in the next position, which speaks of the declaration and abolition of the situation, requires prior consent of the Assembly of the Republic of Members. Therefore, unequivocally this issue should be discussed by the parliament of the state union, regardless of the individual views of the parties that are in this Parliament on the state union and the need for its survival. It is not necessary at this time to work on the decommissioning of the institutions of the state community, but to strengthen them at the very least to allow them to discuss matters of their jurisdiction. What is characteristic, if someone makes a comment on the compliance of the Republic Constitution with the Constitutional Charter, I think that in that case it is undeniable that the Constitutional Charter must consult on this issue because the Constitutional Charter, as a later passed legal act, is in any case derrogating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, the deadlines were long missed, because that deadline was six months ago. So I really don't understand why the chairman put this resolution on the agenda in the first place. As to the very essence of the lawsuit, it can certainly be viewed from at least two aspects – formal and political. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, in order for Serbia to even come into a situation to collect war damages for the aggression committed in 1999, it is necessary to prove before the court that NATO countries, hence the eight countries indictees, have committed the most serious crimes of international law, genocide, aggression or violation of humanitarian law. To prove genocide, it is necessary to establish the subjective intent of these countries mentioned that they systematically wanted to destroy the Serb people. Since the Nuremberg process, one of the principles set out in international law has been that the most serious crimes, namely war crimes, and hence genocide, are responsible individuals and individuals, and not some abstract entities. As far as the political aspect of this lawsuit is concerned, it is important to take into account that at this moment, two lawsuits exist, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, against our country, and that the best interests of our country are achieved by watching all three lawsuits at the same level, i.e. by deciding on them in one package. If we did not do so, if we simply and unconditionally withdraw the lawsuit against eight NATO countries that have committed aggression, we could put ourselves in a rather delicate position if it were decided to harm our country and, let's say, we would have to pay war damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. That would lead our country and people into an extremely difficult position. The other political aspect of this story is that the possible withdrawal of the lawsuit against eight NATO countries is certainly one of the conditions of the continuation of the European integration process, and above all the entry of our country into the Partnership for Peace programme. There is a high degree of consensus among the citizens of Serbia, and I dare say among the large number of parliamentarians sitting in the Republic Assembly. So that is one of the two conditions that we must meet if we want to continue the process of European integration. Of course, there are a lot of stories today about some emotional moments. I think it's completely undeniable for us that this topic is very painful, that the memories of 1999 haven't faded, that we all remember very well three months of aggression, several thousand civilian casualties and mass destruction of our infrastructure. No one has forgotten that, and I think it is completely wrong to focus this resolution on the division of patriots, less patriots and traitors, because it is a deplaced story, certainly a relic of the past, one way that Serbia cannot bring into the community of European countries. That way you don't enter the European Union. It is also undeniable that all of us politicians, parliamentarians, above all, are people with a high degree of political responsibility, and when we make decisions and when we are discussing such a single resolution, we must first have a Serbian state and national interest. So it was a time when patriotism was measured with loud and noisy rhetoric. The time has come for patriotism to be measured by rational and responsible behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-25-0.u6570	Thank you. Like we said, this was the last speaker. I am obliged to give you one explanation: it is clear why it is not the chairman, but the president, by respecting the law, has scheduled the session, and the agenda has drawn up, as already foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, 84 MPs. Thank you. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than 84 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE OF THE SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SECURITS against THE COUNTRY OF NATO FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE BOMBERDOM IN 1999. THE word has been given by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic, and let the People's Messenger George Mamula be prepared.
