ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5312	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, the session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milena Milosevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Goran Paunovic and Sava Urosevic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Change of Taxation on Transport ( Extension ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vučićevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 97 of Position 1, since I was badly interpreted as a speaker yesterday. Of course, yesterday I was talking about the Transport Tax Act and I said that fiscalization is something that, in the extreme line, is normal, but that we expect that, to be good, honest and honest, it will be introduced in all actions or not be made an exception. Of course, when exceptions are made in some ways, doubt and the possibility of comment are immediately created. Since I'm a private doctor, we've taken the view on the Health Committee that private doctors need to be leveled with social institutions: to be freed from fiscal registers or to have them, but the same as social doctors. Of course, it's not like that here. I'll tell you what's been released from fiscalization. In a way, this creates doubt, with one bad explanation that for certain actions no software could be found. Here is a list of activities that are not obliged to introduce fiscal registers: “The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services estimated that the previous Government in the Transport Tax Act has set out a wide list of activities that have the obligation to record traffic through fiscal registers and without objective consideration of the specificity of the business of certain activities. The finance ministry has prepared an amendment to the Transport Tax Act and the draft of this fiscal cash register law, which will free certain actions of this obligation, which practically means that they do not have to introduce fiscal cash registers." It is then said: “A new solution would release the following actions from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal registers: sales of tickets to passengers in road, rail, water and air traffic; transport of goods in road transport; taxi transport; business of banks and other financial organisations and insurance, resecuritisation and PTT services; work of passenger organisations; work of religious organisations; services of health institutions which are charged through the participation of insurance companies in health care costs; participation; legal affairs; street sales of ice cream, popcorn, vines, presses, etc.; sales of products through printed and electronic media, which are charged to companies; services of shoe and carrier cleaners; sales of products through automatics. "Of course, I believe that certain actions, especially those that are cobwebs, should be released. In any case, I can't accept that certain actions are this. (President: Mr. Vukevic, time. What we've been looking for, it's that private and social doctors are equal. Why? I will tell you now - on the basis of the Decision of the Management Board of KBC Kragujevac of 5 November 2001, Decisions of the Management Board of the Republic Health Insurance Office, etc. on the increase in the price of health services, a new value list of non-standard services has been established. I'll just list some services that are...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5314	I'm sorry, you won't say. It's been four minutes. You've reported to the Rules of Procedure that you've been misread, and you can't now export materials for more than a minute. Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5315	Okay, I'm going to finish, but I want to say that private doctors, relative to social doctors, are demoted, and I'm going to take this out on another occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5316	The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the MP Brance Stojanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a completely unnecessary bill on amendments and additions to the law. It is unnecessary to discuss this, and this only adds to the work of this session. One whole agenda item is dedicated to this supplement, which consists of one member. With such proposals, each MP loses, from these MPs who support the government, that the MPs of the SRS are in the future accused of obstructing the work of the Assembly. What's this about? The point is that it's an amendment to Article 38. The Transport Tax Act, in fact, the Government itself wanted to take charge of itself, that in a special way the arrangements which would still be excluded from fiscalisation, i.e. the introduction of fiscal cash registers. You see, in the end, Article 38 of the last position says the government of the Republic of Serbia is making closer regulations on how to register traffic through the fiscal register and the dynamics of the introduction of these registers. So, already in Article 38, there was a legal possibility that the government of the Republic of Serbia would be closer to determining how to regulate this problem. When this member had already changed, then this deadline that was set -- that the introduction of fiscal cash registers, that is, must end by 31 May 2004, that should have changed, because the minister himself yesterday said that only about 60% of this fiscalisation was completed, and that 40% had not yet been completed, which means that these deadlines had been broken and that no one had thought to change this and possibly move the deadlines. There is a change in the right of the government, which already has in Article 38, that, in particular, in co-operation with the finance minister and the tourism minister, determine subsequently what services would be excluded from fiscalisation. However, we know that most MPs in the voting day must vote this because we have a bad experience. If we don't get this out of the way, we can expect this back on the agenda in the next day. We've already had one such experience when it comes to the law behind which the finance minister stood. It is unnecessary that all this happens, when this is adopted and implemented after eight days, it remains for only five months to apply. By then, the entire software or some of the software in the already existing fiscal registers will have to be changed, given that the tax will be recalculated differently, that this law will cease to apply, that the value added tax law, which we discussed at the previous point, will start to apply. My opinion and the opinion of the parliamentary group is that it is needlessly burdened by the work of the Assembly, that there is no need for this. However, if the government has decided to do so, we will certainly continue to discuss this law. Nothing new is going on since what was not already in Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5318	The People's MP Brance Stojanovic has the word, and let the MP Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5319	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS will support this traffic tax law. We think the change that has been proposed is going towards solving certain problems, which have been created by applying fiscal registers. We heard here yesterday from a colleague, a member of the medical profession, i.e. Doctors, some of the reasons for this profession around fiscal registers, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say a few words about the functioning of public enterprises in the field of municipal activity. Namely, as is known, the collection of public service invoices by citizens, in most utility companies, is carried out on company registers, according to already established accounts on the basis of the stated measuring instruments, regardless of whether these are measuring instruments - plumbers or are those - identified areas on which the account is based. In the case of the collection of utility services, it is not always possible to respect the established principle, because the sequence of events is completely opposite, i.e. the service is first provided to users, and only then, after the measurement and the invoices have been carried out, will it be charged. This means that the account users, for the service provided, come to the company's cash registers to make payments, and they mostly pay part of the account, in accordance with their capabilities, and the economic coercion does not exist, because the service has already been provided. It is practically impossible for a cashier to use fiscal cash registers, on the spot, to make accounts because it would require that at any time the cashier has data on the consumption of each individual user. The problem is increased in view of the above mentioned fact, that consumers mainly pay only part of the consumption, with the rest of the consumption remaining inefficient. This should be added to the fact that the collection of municipal services and otherwise carried out with great difficulty, i.e. that a large number of users pay late, which withdraws the account of the tight interest which is impossible to account for on the fiscal register. Generally, if the bill for utility services provided was made up only at the time of collection. By applying fiscal cash registers, this would mean that income would be recognised by the cash principle, contrary to the Accounting and Audit Act. That's, let me say, one of the reasons we're going to support these changes in this law. We expect that the resolution ministries based on these facts, as well as additional checks on the ground, these specific situations, such as payments in public utility companies, to be taken into account. This amendment proposed by the government goes in this sense that such problems, among other things, are solved in a quick and efficient way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5320	The word has been given by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and Milovan Radovanovic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is really the shortest bill I've ever seen and read. There are only two members, one of which says when this bill comes into force. The reasons for the adoption of this law are that agricultural producers, the owners of independent trades, who sell agricultural products and their own products on liquor markets and similar facilities, and their own products of crafts and domestic work, do not have an obligation to record traffic through fiscal registers. The question arises: whether incasants working on markets, in a parking service, must have fiscal cash registers or not. The problem is, first of all, technical nature, because there is a need to find an adequate software solution and a solution to record this traffic. They probably had to think about it in time, when they introduced fiscal cash registers. They say that these effects will be precisely in order to carry out more effective control of taxpayers, and yet, the minister who is not present, as usual, when I speak, says that he is about to determine closer regulations - which persons are exempt from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal cash registers because of the specificity of the activity they perform and the inability to find an adequate software solution for the fiscal cash register. It's not defined -- what traffic, what goods, which is unidentified goods. That, probably, the minister knows, but he doesn't want to share his knowledge with the MPs, so that, as always, he can transfer all the information to his own shoulders, which are not so strong. There is a list of actions that are not required to introduce fiscal cash registers. These are, above all, ticket sales to passengers in road, rail, water and air traffic; transport of goods in road transport; taxi transport; business of banks and other financial organisations of insurance and reinsurance; PTT services; activity of passenger organisations and tour operators; activity of religious organisations; services of health institutions charged through the participation of insurance companies in health care costs, i.e. in the people known - participation; legal transactions; street sale of ice cream, popcorn, vines, presses (colporters); sales of products via printed and electronic media, which is charged to companies; shoe and carrier cleaning services; sales of products via automatic. Now it's interesting that lawyers, who have a strong lobby, as lawyers are professional, are afraid of the minister and have made it possible for them, do not have fiscal cash registers. People involved in taxi transport, since they are able to block traffic and traffic in Belgrade and Serbia, and that no fiscal cash register has been introduced. So there is only a selection where there is a danger that the Government of the Republic of Serbia could be threatened by roadblocks. If they already say that health care services, which are charged through the participation of insurance companies in health care costs, i.e. through participation, are a small amount in health care - I am responsible for saying that it is not only participation that is charged in cash. The question arises - what about extra-standard services in state health institutions? What about users of many appliances, especially the service use of scanners, treatment of oncology patients, paying for apartments in individual health institutions? A much larger amount is in cash with patients like that and under such circumstances than participation. What about those institutions, which are promised, such as the introduction of a family doctor, home treatment. Should doctors who need to save lives wear a fiscal register? To be in an inferior position compared to cab drivers and lawyers. What about ethics? What about the doctor or the patient, and what about the secret of diagnosis? Every doctor is obliged to keep his patient's secret. Is that supposed to be on a fiscal ticket to write a diagnosis that someone's being treated for and the amount to pay the patient for? What about 4,000 doctors working in private practice? Why are they in an inferior position with regard to doctors who work in health institutions that are in state property? Many doctors representing themselves as speakers are already preparing private clinics, making it logical that they represent the interests of private practice. According to the law, private and state practice is completely identical. Even the Health Committee has decided that it does not need fiscal cash registers to be introduced for doctors who are in private practice, and there are certainly more than 8,000 who carry out such work. There are a lot of problems, and it is necessary for the fiscal registers to be introduced absolutely for all services, for all interests or for us not to allow the minister to have this discretionary right to decide who can use that fiscal register, because we know that he has used his official position many times. Why would we trust him now and give him a blank trust?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5322	The People's MP Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Vesenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5323	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act introduces a new category of persons who, in addition to agricultural producers and owners of independent trades, are not obliged to have fiscal cash registers. It is okay that agricultural producers and owners of independent crafts shops, which sell agricultural products and their own products on liquor markets and similar facilities, crafts and domestic work, have no obligation to have fiscal cash registers and, in this case, those persons are clear and defined. However, this bill introduces a new category of undefined persons with undefined goods, an undefined place for exemption from sales tax. This law was initiated by certain chambers, associations and businessmen, according to the draft law. We don't know what the people's deputies are looking for, the chambers and associations they're looking for, the goods they're dealing with here. Why doesn't the promoter tell us that, but we all know that the proposaler is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is decided by two ministers, the finance minister and the minister of trade, tourism and services. On who will pay the tax and who will not finally decide, according to the draft law, the government of the Republic of Serbia. Every law, including this bill whose text is likely to be adopted by the majority, will be part of the basic law and must be coherent, coherent, clear, comprehensive, principled and defined. What faces won't have to pay sales taxes? Do you happen to have underage faces, do you happen to be passersby? How will the Government determine what act? Will the Government determine any solution in each individual case? Of course, I'm banalizing this problem here, but it's not acceptable for a taxpayer to have the word "face" in the Bill of Law. You can't say "person" when it comes to sales tax or about a payer of any kind of tax. As a justification for this proposal, the Proposer cites the inability to create an adequate software applicative programme by the person for performing specific actions, which is totally inconclusive, because it is not known what these activities are and what actions are concerned. Furthermore, without my intention for harsh words, and given the countless illegal and illegal actions in the business of the Standard Bank in London, Vexim, and later EuroAxis banks in Moscow, National Savings, and its second and third recapitalisations through the Shore Company "Findel" and "Kolprom", for the account of six other companies with exotic islands, then Hungari, HVB Bank, and now the factory "North" from Subotica, in an attempt, and all similar cases where, in fact, someone, for their own pocket and for their own interest, won the use of Mobtel, and money from loans for the economic renaissance of Serbia, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija. I have no confidence that persons who are authorised to make a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the exemption of a person for the payment of sales taxes will act fairly and honorably, in accordance with the powers laid down in the proposal for this law, which is added to the basic law, and this is about paying the sales tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5324	The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this assembly meeting over the past five or six months has brought about a dozen laws of economic and tax nature, for which, according to me and us Serbian radicals, there has been no time, no moment, no conditions in which our citizens live. Is it at a time when agriculture is in our real collapse, when the standard of citizens falls from day to day, when strikes are recorded at all levels, we pass laws that create a new impose on citizens of Serbia. The example of this law is also the previous law on added value, which, according to the proposings, is in line with many European countries, and we forget what chaos, or economic collapse our country is in. This addition of the Law creates even greater anomalies among citizens. Simply, taxpayers who pay taxes with this law will be in doubt whether to obtain fiscal bills. Why am I saying that? Because it's not defined here who these bonds are that are going to have to get fiscal cash. In the previous law, it was defined who was actually freed from the purchase of fiscal cash registers. I must mention that the possibility and ingenuity of the minister has been left for him to determine it himself. We know that today in Serbia we have many registered associations, which deal with some of their activities, whether sports, environmental and other. Whether these associations, depending on their privilege or not, are either at will of the minister, will be or will not be obliged to obtain fiscal cash. It's something that's going to create a new confusion with people who deal with these jobs, not to mention that fiscalization at all, which takes place in the past year and is due to be completed by the end of next year, is a special imposition on businesses, STR, catering activities that operate in very difficult conditions. As with that Value Added Tax Act, where it is said that the budget will increase by 50%, at the same time the Proposer does not think about what the consequences are, how many companies will be shut down and closed down if we are rigorously going to tax small businesses anyway, STR and other trades. Here is an explanation in this law that no software opportunity has been given to cover all these activities. Those understood in the microcomputer system, in automatic data processing and software, know that there is no human activity that cannot be covered by a microcomputer, or software. It means it's not a real explanation. The real explanation is hidden and it's completely different nature, and it's hidden in the fact that the demands of certain associations, chambers, etc. are to consider the possibility of who they're going to meet and who they're not going to meet. This was unnecessary, if we add the fact that the importance of this law ends at the end of this current year. I can't here, not to mention one expert group, which is made here by G17 plus and Mr. Vice President of the Government Labus, who said at Study B, when the "Stava-Stat" Kragujevac arms strike, how to God our M-21 automatic rifle is not high-quality, bullets are stuck and so forth. The weaponsmen of Najnska also sent a letter to Prime Minister Kostunica and Mr Labus, explaining that this is how their company is discredited and prevents their exports from being exported to a foreign market. Instead of allowing the expert group to export and remove the deficit that we have from more than two billion compared to imports, Mr Labus makes such statements and statements, which are affected not only by the employees of the Task Force from Kragujevac, but by our society as a whole. They published that letter and addressed the newspaper on Sunday 11th, where they literally described Mr. Labus' statement and the quality of the rifle, our M-21 rifle, which has a test of even many international institutes. What does this mean? This means that this expert, Mr. Labus, is also involved in the technical quality of weapons, so he's becoming ballistics, and he wants to know everything this way. Unfortunately, Mr. Labus may have remained that rifle since October 5, 2000, when many police stations were robbed and his automatic rifle was probably corroded, so he's stuck. I can say that whoever was still in the army knows that our weapons are very high-quality and that they have their own image, that they are among the first in Europe. That's why I'm appealing to the expert group not to interfere where he doesn't know. They have to bring in some ballistics expert to explain to them the quality of our infantry weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5326	Replica, Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5327	Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the standard remark, not to see what kind of connection this is, not only in previous discussions, but in several previous discussions, it has to do with the subject, or with the law that is on the agenda, I would ask one question, and that is – whether it suits us (and that's the only impression that I can get on the basis of what I've heard in the previous few discussions, and also to rely on some of the speakers to live in a difficult situation and a chaotic situation), does all of this mean that we should continue living in this difficult and chaotic situation. Whether our economy still needs to cramp, or whether we still need to have no production, or that we have an unquality production, and that is why factory workers in Serbia continue to have difficulty living, i.e. they are not actually doing what they should do. Or is it finally in this country, after all these years, that some order should be introduced? That also means when it comes to fiscal registers and our factories. Do we really need to keep doing nothing, not having production, having unquality production, or in this country we need to establish some system and order, and start looking like a normal state already? And not to engage in political demagogy, economic demagogy, and to actually support the dissatisfaction of citizens and the possibility of further unhappiness. For further chaos and for the complete further lack of control of the system, which of course can only lead to a further gray economy, can only continue to lead to black markets and simply lead this country to further collapse. If that's our goal, then I really don't know what we're doing here, because I realized my job here, and my colleagues and the Serbian government, above all, in order to improve all the measures that are being taken, in fact, the state, that is to finally establish a system in this country. I regret to say that I am constantly and constantly hearing different tones from this pay phone, which lead us only to deeper chaos and only to further resolve certain issues. I would also pray that it is no longer allowed to constantly turn away from the topic, that this speaker is constantly used for someone's political campaigns, whose motives are really not clear to me at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5328	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5329	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 97, Miss or Madam did not understand me correctly, interpreted me. I just want to explain. From this pay phone, all those who speak the chaos of our economy and our society as a whole are right. To those who are bothered by it and live outside this society and citizens, that's another story. All I know is that the last few days have been closed 50 stores for fiscal cash and fiscalization. Not because they're not working, but because they weren't able to pay them in time and get them. I know what the profit is to the company that imports these fiscal registers, and I know that this profit is to certain companies that are privileged to your minister, and we know that, and it's huge money. We know that the cheapest fiscal register is somewhere from 14.5 grand, so maybe over 200,000 dinars are moving, but everyone in the obligation was to buy a fiscal register. Let's take now to fiscalize fleas, markets, gigs, and all we have to do, and those who have to go to Hungary, to Romania, Bulgaria, to feed their children there next to fleas, if they don't have the capacity to sell their goods. Let's take them too. Why? You may have excluded them, but when the possibility of a minister is given, he will be able to make a solution for them to obtain fiscal cash registers too. You didn't understand me, I was talking about the Armsman of the Purpose flag Kragujevac. They were on strike a few days ago. They come and strike in Belgrade. I said that Mr. Labus destimulates the export of our products by making a statement that the M-21 automatic rifle does not satisfy the world market, etc. She's got all the atheists, even NATO has given an atest for this rifle. It means that Mr. Labus interferes in an area he doesn't understand and thus normally discredited our dedicated production, which has a great image in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5330	Replica, Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5331	Just for a little while, this is about these clarifications. There's one thing you said, Miss, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5332	Mr. Veselinović, you have spoken to the Rules of Procedure that you have been misread by the previous speaker, who is now replicating you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5333	So, as soon as possible, there is one thing that we absolutely agree on, and that is that no full order has yet been introduced into our economy and economy, and just what the government of Serbia and this assembly is doing is that this order is finally being introduced. Speaking of fiscal cash registers, where I'm lucky this society is ready for full fiscalization, because full fiscalization just means the full order. Given the specificities of our society at this time, it was not possible, but I hope that it will be possible as soon as possible, or that we will indeed have fiscal cash registers wherever necessary. On the other hand, I also support absolutely every sanctioning of non-introduction of fiscalisation within the foreseen deadline, because it only stimulates that chaos and the mess that was being talked about here. Finally, as far as stimulating our exports are concerned, not only is it about the quality and compliance of world standards, but, if we are even considering any exports, the basic rule is that we cannot go to any foreign market, at least European and global, if we do not meet European standards. Therefore, we are free of what we want to export if no one will buy it. So, in other words, we're winning. In one word, to conclude, in this replica is the essence of what it's all about, and it's about introducing order and system. It's something we know and why we're more than professional, and as long as we can and wherever we are, we're going to work on introducing order and a system for the benefit of all its citizens into this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5334	The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the work of this assembly and the government itself is balanced, this law that has two members in it may be said to be some 41st or 43rd order adopted by this assembly. But he doesn't really change things. We agree, above all, that the SRS is for the introduction of order, system, and legality, and morale into this society. This is exactly how we give up, how we are not consistent with this, and if it is the Transport Tax Act, which was passed in 2001, and changed in 2002 and 2003, it is understandable that this is a living problem, which will have very frequent changes and later, and now, in these amendments and additions to the 2003 Law, it is said, when the fiscal cash registers are introduced, which will be freed, or excluded. We Serbian radicals here fully agree to be agricultural producers, who directly sell their products at the liquor court, and to be producers, or craftsmen, who also sell their products at the gigs. But now to leave a broad possibility to one and the other ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, to eventually find, that they are setting something up, those taxpayers who will not be obliged to apply fiscal cash registers, I think that leaves a great opportunity and can very often in practice lead to abuse. I'm not saying he will, but I'm sure he can. Based on the previous law, the Value Added Tax Act, in 16 members we left the possibility, i.e. the obligation of the Finance Minister to arrange certain things in an appropriate manner. Yesterday, one speaker said, if we were to regulate this problem at this point, it would be necessary to write 500 pages, and if 500 pages are to be done through the Assembly, so many pages if we wanted to regulate it and if the Ministry of Finance solves it that way. So, if we follow the legislative proposals closely and study them, you will see from the reasoning of this law, when it says – the effects of the proposed measures, so here it stands – the proposed solution will create even better conditions for more effective control of taxpayers for whom there is a obligation to register traffic through fiscal registers. The proposed solution is already in existing and valid law, and here it comes that a certain category of taxpayers will be exempt from use, i.e. they will not be obliged to use fiscal cash registers. We agree, it is mandatory and necessary, that society can function and that certain needs may be met, that the tax policy be arranged in a good and modern way, but when the laws and regulations are passed, we must bear in mind the platform on which we adopt these laws and where this will apply. Thus, the reasoning of this law says that fiscal cash registers will have to be completed by 31 May 2004 at the latest. Serbian radicals have proposed, as we now say for value added tax, it is not at all disputed by its application, that is, the adoption of the law, but the time in which it should find its application in practical life is short and we cannot be sure that it will be timely, enforceable and that it will not have negative consequences for this. When the Minister of Finance came here, I must also inform the other MPs that I come from the city of Love, which a few days ago was struck by a great storm, followed by a city and a storm, where 50% of the municipality's territories were destroyed by all agricultural crops and even fruit and vegetables. In these 50% municipality territories, there are direct damages from 50 to 100% somewhere. I think the raspberries were now in full swing, in the full harvest season, and that's already over. The wheat, as it arrives and matures a little later, is not harvested yet, the corn has just begun to silk, and now the municipality of Love has suffered great losses. The local self-government has made the commitments it was supposed to make, a request has been submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Commission to identify these material and elemental disasters, and we have talked here that we have provided three times as much funding for the agrarian budget in the budget, so let's see if this rhetoric is in practice as well. Indeed, it was likely intended for a normal and regular production. We've had extraordinary opportunities here. I ask the Minister to see and find with his associates an opportunity for farmers, or citizens living in Ljubovija, to help us make it easier for us all to get through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5336	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let MP Zlatan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this bill proposed authorising the Government of the Republic of Serbia to, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, bring closer regulations on what persons are exempt from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal cash registers because of the specificity of the activity they are carrying out and the inability to find an adequate software solution for the fiscal cash register. Namely, Article 38. The Act on Transport Taxes established the obligation of the taxpayer, i.e. the legal person and the entrepreneur, to provide for each individual traffic of the product, i.e. that for each service performed, the purchaser of the product, i.e. the customer's account, or the invoice on the type, quantity and price of the products sold, or the services performed, and if traffic is recorded through the register, the corresponding slice of the tape on which that traffic is recorded. Also, persons performing retail traffic of products or services to natural persons are obliged to record each individual traffic via a register of cash registers with fiscal memory. The mandatory issue of an account, i.e. the registration of traffic through a fiscal register, refers to any natural person, therefore, sold by a product or service by a taxpayer. The fourth position of Article 38 excludes them from the obligations laid down in Article 1. 2nd and 3rd of the same member, farmers and owners of independent crafts shops selling agricultural products and their own products of crafts or domestic work on liquor markets and similar facilities. The amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, which are before us, are also proposed to exclude persons who, due to the specificity of the activity that they carry out, are prevented from creating an application programme in accordance with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register. The SRS considers that some other taxpayers, i.e. some other activity, need to be freed from the obligation to provide the customer with an account of the type, quantity and price of the products sold or the services performed for each individual traffic of the product, i.e. for each service provided to the purchaser, i.e. the customer of the service, if the traffic is recorded through the register and the corresponding section of the tape on which that traffic is recorded. But we do not agree with the position of Article 5 of Article 38, whose addition is proposed by these amendments to the law, which gives such authority to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, under that article, should, on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, establish closer to the regulations on which persons, due to the specificity of the activity they are carrying out, it is impossible to create an application programme in accordance with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register. It certainly is not good, and so far we have been able to make sure that these powers are in the hands of the government, or, in the opinion of the SRS, there is a need. Whether action belongs to the category of specific actions is not something that changes from day to day, it's not some fluctuating, variable category, so that some activity within one month or one government is specific, and that with the arrival of another government, the change of government ministers, or the change of government's position... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... This activity is no longer specific and there is no need to be excluded from this, because the government should not have complete control over it. If we accept such a solution, we will come to a situation where the government's relationship with tax bonds that carry out certain activities depends to the greatest extent possible on the situation in society... (President: six minutes, Mr. Sarovic, please finish. It's been over a minute, already warned with you. I'm sorry, please, I forgot. I thought we were working on the amendments. Go on. ) Therefore, it is not good for the Government to decide on tax bonds that carry out a certain activity to depend on the current political situation and on whether or not a particular activity will be exempted from the obligations laid down in Article 1, 2 and 3 of Articles 38. Transport tax law. It is a much better solution, especially given the basic characteristics of some of the activities that lead to the inability to create an application programme in line with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register, that we leave the decision on which activity is to be freed from the obligation to obtain fiscal registers to leave the law. In this way, we avoid any possibility of abuse and arbitration, as well as the appearance of certain lobbies, which will pressure the government to exclude certain groups of taxpayers from the legal obligations imposed on all other taxpayers. Finally, I was reminded by the chairman, the SRS submitted only one amendment to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Transport Tax Act and I suggest you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5338	Thank you, sorry again, I've been looking at the amendments and I thought they were talking about amendments. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5339	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth amendment to the Transport Tax Act since 2001, when the basic text was adopted. This shows how imperfect and inadequate the basic text is at which it was adopted. This amendment applies to only one member of the existing law, which is Article 38, which is the prescribed way in which the invoice is issued. In Article 38 of the existing Act, paragraph 1 refers to the obligation of the legal person and the entrepreneur, when selling the product or performing the service, to issue an invoice or invoice to the person to whom he sells the product or does the service, or if that traffic is carried out through the register, to issue the relevant tape, or to cut the tape from the register. The second position which does not change this proposal obliges those who do traffic on a small scale, that in the case of the transport of products on a small scale and the provision of services to natural persons to issue an appropriate section of the register, i.e. the fiscal register, as defined here. The third position has also not changed, and it obliges those natural persons working with the taxpayer to issue the section from the register to the person to whom they sell the product, or to do the service. The fourth position of Article 38 of the existing law prescribes those actions or those persons and entrepreneurs who are exempt from the obligation to issue these accounts, i.e. these sections from the register, or those who do not have an obligation to own a fiscal register in the transport of their products and services. The agricultural producers, the owners of independent trades which sell agricultural products and their own products of crafts and domestic work on liquor markets and similar facilities are clearly listed here. That was the position of Article 38(4). This intervention extends this attitude, and it is said that, in addition to these persons listed in the whole position, this release also refers to persons who, due to the specificity of the activity they perform, are prevented from creating an application programme in accordance with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register. The question arises – how could this not have been known three years ago or why it waited three years to determine that there are other actions that cannot be used by the fiscal register besides those persons, agricultural producers and craftsmen? After this attitude, add a new position 5, which leaves the Government of the Republic of Serbia to, on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, determines which persons, within the meaning of the previous attitude 4, because of the specificity of the activity they are carrying out, are prevented from creating an application programme in line with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register. This stance 5 leaves the government of the Republic of Serbia with the possibility that, through the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, it extends the list of persons, entrepreneurs and actions that will be released from the obligation to own the fiscal register and issue these accounts. It's a dispute why it's not all defined by law. If, after three years, you have found that there are other actions, some persons and entrepreneurs who cannot use fiscal cash registers in the transport of their products and services, why these activities, those persons and entrepreneurs did not appear explicitly in the law, why they are not listed, such as farmers and craftsmen, are now left with the possibility that these two ministries, or government, are making these lists some sublaws. All of this points back to a practice that, we saw yesterday, quite present with this government, that quite often in all the legal acts that are proposed here, leaves the government and ministers with the possibility that they may intervene with some of their discretionary rights, adopt sublegal acts, and bring closer regulation of these laws. Of course, it all points to and points to the suspicion that there will be problems, that this will be a space for various malfeasances, manipulations, that there will be various privileges under the influence of various lobbies. In the light of this law, many associations of various activities and chambers have appeared after three years of application of this law, with the requirement to exempt certain actions from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal registers. Even in the explanation, it is not cited as an example, which personally bothers me, that at least as an example, it is listed here which associations, whose activities it has asked the government, or the ministry, to abolish the obligation of the fiscal tills for them. At least it could have been as an example in the explanation that we had something to say as an argument. So, and in the explanation it's left unsaid, that's all in the fog, and we don't have a quality argument why all this is done, except for this one I said, that there's going to be a big space here for all kinds of machinations and abuses. Just now, Miss Milivojevic said that this law wants to avoid chaos, that order, system, etc. is being introduced. On the contrary, I think that in this way and with this approach only chaos is increasing in this sphere, and in no way is it being reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5340	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Let the messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5341	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been here a long time to discuss whether fiscal cash registers should be introduced, in which way we should regulate that matter. For four years, we have been discussing how order should be introduced in all areas in the state of Serbia. We've been telling you for four years, ladies and gentlemen, that neither those before you, nor you are capable of doing so. This is also proof of this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Dinkic probably thought that the law of only two members could go unnoticed, as if it were completely irrelevant. Even yesterday, I listened to comments from fellow Members of Parliament who are in power, like, you won't be discussing a law that only has two members. As a graduate lawyer, I didn't know until yesterday that the importance of the law was estimated by how many members there are. You see, these two members are very important. Namely, it is unacceptable to propose a solution under this law, which, in the third position of Article 1, states: "The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, will determine which persons, in the sense of the position of the 4th member, due to the specificity of the activity they are carrying out, are prevented from creating an application programme in accordance with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register." Ladies and gentlemen, this can't be regulated like this. This is the matter that regulates the law. If something is regulated by law, then ministers can't go to the government and the government can't discrimination against who the law applies and who it doesn't apply to. That is the problem of the DOS, the former and the present, which the laws are not equal for all citizens. It is obvious that you intend to do so with this, to leave the ministers at will, to propose to the government, and to regulate the government's decision on who is obliged to obtain the fiscal cash register, and who is not obliged to obtain the fiscal cash register. Who's good to one of the ministers, he'll be able to make sure for his entire group that they don't use the fiscal register. However, the government is likely to have very little difficulty making decisions on a proposal from the ministers, given everything that has been going on lately. You obviously don't need an opposition, while you have ministers who attack every day the way they attack in the media. Of course, that's your problem. The problem will soon be regulated. I'm surprised you didn't predict the agency in this law, since it's your manners, so the agency determines who's going to use the fiscal registers, who won't use the fiscal cash registers. You could have used that agency to hire a few dozen so-called. Experts, who have studied for tens of years and barely finished college, because these are your experts, we already know from practice so far. In the light of this law, the reasons for the law being passed, there is something in the second position that is very interesting. You say: “Departing from the practices of the countries that carried out the fiscalisation, as well as the significant initiatives of associations and associations of various activities and chambers, to exempt certain actions from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal cash registers, and to indicate the inability to find an adequate software solution for recording that traffic due to the specificity of their activity, it is proposed that those persons be excluded from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal cash registers, etc.” Is it clear to anyone what's written here? Who in this room cares if anyone is able to secure that software system or not? How will these specific actions be regulated? Yesterday, the minister here said in an explanation, in an opening statement concerning the law, among other things, that it was the subject of this law to make services to agricultural producers. It's just not true. Agricultural producers are freed from the use of fiscal registers and under existing law. Furthermore, exactly what is in this explanation, and the minister stressed that this applies only to specific actions, so he would really have to tell us what specific actions these are. If we, MPs, evaluate these specific actions as specific, then we will record them, exactly list them in the law, and then the law will be the basis for using or not using fiscal registers, and not the goodwill of the minister, one or the other, or the Government of Serbia. It is not clear to me which of the messengers of the people will be able to vote for this law, in which nothing is simply written down, and whoever votes for this, I say, knows not what it votes for. We don't know who's going to be released from using fiscal registers, who won't, whether you'll release 7,500 Belgrade taxi drivers using fiscal registers. We from the Serbian Radical Party feel it is necessary, but it is necessary to regulate it by law, not to leave it at the will of the minister and the Armus, of the Cabbies' Association, who is working neatly with the authorities and does not allow the city's administration to issue taxi drivers, because he has plotted that there should only be 7,000 taxi drivers in Belgrade, so 1,000 more are waiting for taxi permits. This bill is in fact proof of the continuity of the previous DOS government, since Djindjic, Zivkovic, with this Kostunica government. Because Djelic started the fiscalisation action by explaining to the National Assembly that fiscalisation is being conducted in agreement with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Yesterday, Minister Dinkic, here, also said that fiscalisation is being conducted in agreement with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, i.e. that the changes have been brought together. Well, then Djelic and Dinkic didn't tell the real truth. And the real truth is that fiscalisation has been introduced and is being conducted in agreement with Veselinovic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, owner of the Galeb-group, which is the only producer and importer of fiscal registers. Now, that's the deal, and he, along with this Veselinovic and Jevrosimovic, from Komtrejda, is the only one importing fiscal cash registers, producing them, and now we as the Assembly, and as citizens of Serbia, are in a problem that this Veselinovic is unable to create or import a certain software programme, so we must, for his sake, imagine that we are changing the law. Now, that's true, ladies and gentlemen. It's not about the Chamber of Commerce, it's about the president of the Chamber of Commerce, who in agreement with Djelic and Dinkic took huge money from Serbian citizens. The fiscal registers were introduced where they were introduced. The fact is, they don't mean anything today. That control, as you predicted, is impossible. Yes, it is. People have bought these registers, they're struggling with them, they don't know how to apply them, they don't know how to work with them, and there's no control. You went into one control, you went around and you saw who doesn't have a fiscal register, you made him buy it, you took the money and you still don't care. Now, one of your top friends isn't ready, and who probably has some chain, whether a store or something else, and he's not worth buying these cashiers, and now come on, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, uh, uh, uh, Well, ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly or at least the MPs of the SRS want to pass laws, we are here for that, but we want to pass laws that will apply equally to all citizens, and that will benefit the citizens of Serbia. You made people buy these fiscal registers, and yesterday, when we talked about the value added tax law, you left out one fact - that according to the current legislation, when you adopt this law that we discussed yesterday, then fiscal cash registers should not exist, then this means that fiscal cash registers are abolished on 1 January 2005. Then how will you explain to the citizens of Serbia, those who bought the fiscal registers, why they bought them if they only lasted a few months. Was it enough to give only money to Jevrosimovic and Veselinovic, and to divide them, probably with those who insisted that they be the importers of those registers. What does Article 67 of the Value Added Tax Act say? He says "on 1 January 2005, it ceases to apply the Law on Transport Tax (and this law regulates the existence of fiscal cash registers) and rules on the basis of that law, with the regulation on how to register traffic through a register of cash registers with a fiscal memory and on the dynamics of the introduction of these cash registers and regulations being adopted on the basis of this Regulation until the application of the law to regulate the introduction and recording of traffic through fiscal registers." Mr. Minister, you were under obligation, the government was obliged to yesterday, along with this law on value added tax, propose to the National Assembly and this law to be announced through these final provisions. As long as the law is gone, it won't be possible or necessary to use fiscal registers. So it'll be used for a few more months. At the beginning of next year, respected Serbian citizens, you who bought the fiscal registers, which you gave money to the president of the Chamber of Commerce for those tills, were deceived by Minister Dinkic, by Minister Djelic. You gave the money away for nothing. You won't need those boxes, because this government probably won't be able to propose that law, it won't have time, because it's obviously in the decomposition phase.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5342	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this bill is read, and the reasoning and reasons for the adoption, it seems that someone is underestimating the MPs of the Serbian Parliament or someone was lying to Mr. Minister. The Serbian Radical Party was against the introduction of fiscal tills. That's what we were talking about. We claimed there would be abuse in the introduction. That certain people will have the privilege of importing or producing fiscal cash registers, because the Ministry of Finance regulated the standards that cash registers must meet, and who will be the authorised importer, producer, distributor and servicer of fiscal cash registers. The way the cash register is fiscalized when it enters the store -- all of it is regulated by regulations. So a tight circle of people will be able to charge that favor. That was one of the reasons the Serbian Radical Party was against the introduction of fiscal tills. Now I would just ask a question - except for this vacuum, which will be on 1 January 2005 i.e. that the provisions of the law on sales tax, which regulate fiscalisation or cash registers, will replace the law on value added tax, where there are no these provisions, so that there will be a legal vacuum on the application of those cash registers, whether the Government is thinking again that by some sublaw act or regulation it regulates fiscal cash registers. But the way the value added tax is accounted for, which has been announced since the fiscalization was introduced, raises the question at all -- why fiscalization is being carried out. Because the most common fiscal liability is the one that last in a row provides some kind of service or gives some kind of product. All taxes have already been charged, charged and paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so there is a general question of the justification for the introduction of fiscal cash registers, especially if we have in mind that we are introducing a value added tax. This member, which complements the Transport Tax Act, foresees that the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the finance ministry and the ministry responsible for trade, tourism and services affairs, determines which persons will be freed from the introduction of fiscal tills. It is further argued in the reasons for the adoption of the law that there is an initiative for associations and associations of various activities and chambers to exempt certain actions from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal cash registers, citing the inability to find an adequate software solution for recording that traffic due to the specificity of their activity and proposing that those persons be freed from the introduction of fiscal cash registers by some sublaw act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can say that this is one of the biggest nonsense I could read in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. First, because the government of the Republic of Serbia prescribed conditions that fiscal cash registers must meet. It seems that this standard was extremely low, so it is now being questioned technically how to solve this problem, and stupidity is because we live in the 21st century and because the fiscal register is not the only way to fiscalize it. You can work on a simple computer with the support of a fiscal printer. The most incompetent programmer dealing with this problem will do to you software that will meet the conditions of all possible actions that exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that this law is passed not out of that ignorance, because I believe that the promoter also knows this, but is brought under the pressure of certain lobbys who would like to avoid paying taxes, whether it's a service tax or a sales tax. That's the only reason. He's talking about how it's going to be charged at public utility registers, and he's falling into the water. Anyone who has received an account of any utility company gets a current account on which to pay the amount owed to the utility, where it is fine and taxed what the price of the service is, what is the interest, what is the tax, and who is a little bit aware of the analyticals and synthetics, knows how the cards of the person issuing the account are owed and on what grounds the tax will pass on to the state. I listened all the time to the previous Minister Djelic and current Minister Dinkic, and then to the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, how it should seek to gradually get the state out of the transport of cash money and to pay indemnity, whether to check cards, whether credit cards or any other way. So you deny yourself stories like this. When it comes to whether private medical practice should have or should not have fiscal cash registers, why would someone be exceptional when you've already decided to introduce fiscal cash registers? It's supposed to be impossible to create an application and software. I've talked about it for a while. It's not a problem with computers or a fiscal printer at all, even that version is cheaper than buying a finished fiscal register. It can be written literally whatever you want, shown the price, shown the type of service, the amount of tax and the issue of the fiscal cut and the bill. Those who advocate patient secrecy can resort to another solution in this story, which is also avoided by doctors working in the public service, which is that instead of the diagnosis in that fiscal account, the code of the disease is written, as is written in every specialist examination that a patient is subject to. It seems to me that there's a desire for someone to try to avoid the obligation to pay sales taxes, under the pretext of doing human work. I apologize in advance to doctors who do this work with honor and honesty, but I don't see why private practice would be an exception, private medical practice, from fiscalization. First, because it is very difficult for any tax authority or tax inspector to determine how many services the doctor has provided, how much he has charged these services, and how much the basis for paying taxes on the income of citizens has been, because no one has been exempt from that tax by any law so far. When it comes to stores, it's very easy. It is very difficult to silence any traffic in the store, because there is an entry document that qualify goods by type and by volume, duty and exit. If the balance of goods entered, the price difference, the tax, the sold-in market, is not equal to zero, it means that there has been an abuse. When it comes to this activity, how do you plan to do it? The excuse to deal with human affairs is fine, but for this job he collects his service, doing so to secure his income, and the state is probably working to secure incomes from all branches equally and evenly, and to burden all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This matter, which the Proposer has given in any case, should be resolved by law, and therefore I propose that this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS, be deleted, adopted, that the minister finally speak for this speaker, which are associations and associations, which are chambers, which are actions and which are the people he intends to free from fiscalisation, and the last one that should be asked about and that the final decision are MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not the Government on a proposal from a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5344	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the opening of the original search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want a word that did not exercise their right under Article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that this amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Transport Tax Act ceases to apply from 1 January 2005. The law stipulates that all, except farmers who sell their goods on the counters, must introduce fiscal cash registers. There is no obligation in any other country that such a wide range of potential taxpayers have fiscal cash registers. So that's the law we found. We took over to run the Ministry of Finance at one point when the maltenes had expired to introduce fiscal cash registers. As you know, that's when no one introduced the fiscal registers. We had a big problem with how to define this situation properly and it is clear that, given that the Transport Tax Act applies only by 1 January 2005, if the value added tax law is passed, and I am convinced that this assembly will vote, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will come out by the end of the year with a special fiscal cash law, where the exact number of actions that must have fiscal cash, and therefore all those not counted have no obligation. However, it is our intention, since we have taken over the maltenes in half of the process of introducing fiscal cash registers, because this is not the procedure that we predicted, but we have taken over its implementation, we must create a legal basis, given that the deadlines of the girl, that a group of taxpayers should be introduced by 30 September, under the appropriate regulation, to introduce fiscal cash registers. We must have a legal basis to free some of the potential taxpayers from it, for the simple reason that they are not future value added tax bonds, for the reason that there is no obligation in other countries to have fiscal cash registers. We have therefore made one statement, which is certainly optional, but we have given information that they will not have to introduce fiscal cash registers following bonds: all those who sell tickets to passengers in road, rail, water and air traffic, those who transport goods in road traffic, taxi drivers, banks and other financial organisations, insurance, reinsurance and PTT services, travel agencies and tour operators, religious organisations, legal businesses, street sales of ice cream, vines, popcorn and presses, or colporteurs, sales of products via printed and electronic media that are charged by companies, shoe and carrier cleaner services, sales of products via automatic. These are areas that we have already announced in advance that they do not have to introduce fiscal cash registers. However, we do not have the legal basis to free them, unless this law is passed, which is why the two ministries will propose to the government a final list of all those who do not have to introduce fiscal cash registers on 30 September. All those who were bonds by June 15th, they will remain. They're mostly stores. I have to tell you that the degree of discipline in the introduction of fiscal registers is very high, because all about 4 to 5% of controlled taxpayers have not introduced the fiscal register. One huge number, about 60%, has introduced the fiscal register. Penalties are rigorous. Trade and trade are closed for those who have not introduced these fiscal cash registers within the deadline. Of course there are unconscious producers in this process, but if the SRS is used to doing business by taking commissions in local self-governments in Zemun and in other places where it worked, you really don't have the right to suspect anyone, without any evidence, of anything. We were the first to say that there are producers who do not meet their obligations and they will also be subject to sanctions. The government, unlike the previous one, has opened the possibility of competing new fiscal cash register producers. So the monopoly created by the previous regulation was broken down by giving the free possibility of competition and today about 25 different manufacturers exist that are licensed by the government. Finally, I agree with the debaters who mentioned that it is really not appropriate for lawyers on the one hand to be freed from the use of fiscal registers, and that, on the other hand, doctors, dentists must use them. That is why I would like to say at the end of this exhibition that I will propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, apart from these groups which have now been released in the statement, all institutions of fiscal security, including homes for old and transport of goods that are directly related to them; all institutions that are related to childcare, everything related to pre-school education, therefore, kindergartens; school and university education. These are indeed areas that, in no country, have the obligation to introduce fiscal registers. The previous legislator, including SRS MPs who voted in favour of the law that everyone must have fiscal cash registers, predicted that schools, hospitals, and private and social doctors must have fiscal cash registers. This government will release those categories because it is not appropriate to have fiscal cash registers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5346	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 100, which refers to the stand-off for the assembly speaker and which you know, but I'll remind you. Perhaps a little concentration has been eased by MPs who make up such an air-conditioned majority here, so they were unable to respond to the minister's exposure, unfortunately Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. The 100th mentions that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. Mladjan Dinkic, of course, could never have been the finance minister had it not been for Vojislav Kostunica and such a choice. And on the day Kostunica spoke in his exposé about the moves he plans in the financial and economic policy field in Serbia, we told him from this assembly pay phone that a man who is an exponent of a financial and mafia lobby, a man who is supposed to be in a long-standing prison... (President: Ms. Jovanovic, the same member refers to you. Be kind, respect him. )......................................................................................................... The prison cannot possibly be a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm using the same methods now, by telling the truth, therefore, that Mladjan Dinkic is an exponent of the mafia-financed lobby...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5348	This is the first warning, next time I'll take you off the phone if you don't respect a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5349	Minister Dinkic had just offended the entire SRS parliamentary group and it was up to you, Predreze Markovic, the president of the Assembly, to warn him of the fact that he is insulting the dignity of the most numerous parliamentary group, 82 SRS MPs, a million and a half voters in Serbia, in a way that is inappropriate for someone who comes from the street, let alone a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Not only did the SRS and Serbian Radical Party MPs, Mladjana Dinkic, never took a single dinar from anyone in this country, and the citizens of Serbia know it, but they will try, in the coming period and as long as it exists, and it will always be the strongest political group in Serbia, make sure that it exposes and exposes all your machinations, your friends, your godmothers, such as Hamovic and Lazarevic, and all those with whom you share commissions from various jobs, you are absolutely rich in the coat of arms of this poor, troubled and poor people. Instead of coming here today to suggest something normal, to make people live better and work, you come to the "audia A8" best class, with full equipment. It is also surprising that people here, working 20-30 years in the Serbian Parliament, and those who have spent vehicles at their disposal, what you are doing. Instead of coming with a tax policy that will encourage the development of our economy, you bring out such nonsense, as appropriate to your intelligence, and insult people who by their honesty, their knowledge, their education and what they did for Serbia and the Serbian people, as well as the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, did in Zemun. Not only should you be ashamed, but to know that in such a way none of the radicals will allow you to do so. You'll never be able to speak from this pay phone again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5350	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ksenija Milivojevic and then according to the Rules of Procedure Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5351	So, I'm advertising Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is very difficult to count and remember the number of insults that has been made in the previous presentation, not to mention the terms used, which indeed for this assembly speaker out of respect, both according to the National Assembly and according to the present representatives of the Ministry, I absolutely do not want to repeat. I find them, least of all, humiliating. What I really pray for in the future, given that there is a basis for this in the Rules of Procedure, that this behavior is really not allowed, although the previous speaker has several times been a reminder of everything that has been said. Yes, he was warned on several occasions, but thanks to Parliament Speaker Mr. Markovic's tolerance, the microphone was not turned off. So it's one democratic behavior on the one hand, and on the other hand we have complete disrespect for both the National Assembly, both MPs and finally the Minister of Government, which I find absolutely unacceptable. I also find it inadmissible to press charges on both the finance minister and other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a constant basis, without the smallest one being presented in each of these cases, and one single piece of evidence for those charges, and in particular that all charges are qualified in a dictionary that is absolutely inappropriate for this assembly. If we are already talking about respecting the state, or respecting the state institutions, then it is high time we started communicating in line with the functioning of these institutions. The Ministry of Finance, and even less Parliament group G17 plus, will not tolerate such concessions in the future, and in particular come forward that not only do they not have grounds in the law and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but, more importantly, for our citizens, they have no basis in the very truth, and the truth is that it shows dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5352	According to the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic first reported, and then Natasa Jovanovic, is it a replica? The replica will be later, well, we need to get to the Rules of Procedure first. Just a moment, Mr. Arsic, since it is the obligation of the President of the Assembly to give clarification when the breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised. The president of the assembly did not warn, the speaker of the assembly warned and then the warning was repeated; if it had been continued with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course a warning would have been made, and that is not a question of any tolerance, I will simply and in the future seek to work on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5353	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that the speaker is in charge of this pay phone to tell the truth. Mr Dinkic accused SRS MPs of voting for fiscalisation in Serbia, which is not true. It was his idea and the idea of Minister Djelic, and that's their result. Now they're trying to free some of the fiscal registers. And who? Those who are close to them, in whom they are worse, we will see now that there is a law on income tax for citizens, and who are lobbys, and who will be freed from certain contributions to the state, and who will be able to sponsor the parliamentary and political party of the G17. When it comes to Zemun, ladies and gentlemen, about this story that someone was taking fees for Zemun, I can only say, when you came to power, DOS after October 5th, most of the temporary facilities in Zemun were torn down, allegedly rose town, so that later in that same place, new business facilities that your friends built, and now they don't rose town, and now tell me who took the commission, first to tear down, and then to get permission for a new temporary facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5354	Thank you. You're staying at the replica. Here you go. Replication of the presentation by the Rules of Procedure of the People's MP Ksenija Milivojevic, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5355	Miss Milivojevic acts at least as if "Alice is in a wonder country", as if she does not know which group she is in and what its environment is. I am, unlike her, very well aware of who I belong to, the idea of which I have been fighting back 12 years, along with the vast majority of the people behind the SRS parliamentary group and all those who today are saddened and poored by this kind of economic policy being carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic, who, I will remind you, before that, was the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Unlike Miss Milivojevic, not only am I not using inappropriate expressions, but I am going to warn Mladjan Dinkic that he cannot be a representative of the executive government so that he behaves in this room and for this assembly speaker. If you know anything about parliamentary democracy and who should perform here, who to respect, of course, mutual respect and respect for all is necessary in this room for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because of what we do, then you should know very well that we as representatives of the highest legislative body, or the Parliament that chooses the government, have the right to criticise the minister, to address this pay phone and to tell him everything we think is doing wrong, in a way through free interpretation and through the arguments that each of us, you will allow, and has, and is behind it. Behind every spoken word since I've been working, not only this job at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but as a member of the SRS, I stand responsibly, with pure cheeks and bright hearts in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of my colleagues and in front of a people who ask me and the radicals for the truth. And only we today are able to provide it, unlike you. Nothing in gloves, nothing out of interest, because of the functions, because of the directorial posts, because of the privilege, because of the expensive cars, because of the villa, because of the pool, there is no thing about the radicals, Miss Milivojevic. Only the truth that probably hurts you, because you're an associate, or party colleague of Mr Dinkic's. As for Mr Dinkic, you, as someone who is likely to have an impact on your parliamentary group, and he is the minister of your party, warn that he can never, when he returns to the parliamentary bench, do so by the minister, address the threatening voice and sentences of Mrs Verici Radeti. Ms. Verica Radeta spoke in line with the agenda about how today and why she changes the law relating to fiscal cash registers. Mladjan Dinkic returned to the parliamentary bench and said.... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Mrs. Radetti said he heard very well, that she should be ashamed and that every word of hers should be remembered. What did he want to tell her? That someone would wait for her outside the National Assembly building... (President): Please, time. ) What was the message of Mladjan Dinkic? If you, Mr. Dinkic, address your financial lobbyists and those you betray... (President: Miss Jovanovic, time. I warn you, don't convince us of the events of the parliamentary benches. )......................................................................................................... orders of what to do in your favor, you won't be able to do so with radicals, be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5356	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5357	I'm advertising article 100. I will also ask the Rules of Procedure this time for the National Assembly to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I am no longer sure that comment is necessary. So we talked about the respect of institutions, we talked about human dignity, but obviously some are not worth talking about, so what's said speaks for itself. Anything I could say on that subject would probably be counterproductive. I'll say one thing about wonderland. Serbia was a country of wonder for a long time, a country of wonder until 2000, and because it was the only or perhaps one of five countries in the world, I am counting on some African and Asian countries, which had no European standards, which was completely isolated, which was under sanctions, where people could not live normally and where they lived on wages, from some five or six marks of their own time. Yes, gentlemen, it was a wonder country, but thank God it's not and it's never going to be. Serbia is moving forward and there is absolutely no one who can stop it from moving forward, whatever and whatever the hell it is you're trying to do. When it comes to Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic, G17 Plus, we will do everything in our power to make Serbia never again such a wonder country, or Serbia as one normal, European state, which will absolutely make all its citizens proud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5358	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Vucicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 100. I want to say that the least that Serbian citizens expect from us and the least they like to see and hear in this House is precisely this moment of these discussions, of these replicas and of these insults. What we have done in the past has been very important for Serbia, for its future, for the future of citizens, for their existence and for the introduction of order in financial flows. In recent times, we have passed a set of laws that will soon produce results that citizens will feel, from the Social Protection Act, the Value Added Tax Act, the Transport Tax Act and all of this will quickly produce results, something by the end of the year, something during the following year. Of course, this is the kind of debate citizens don't expect from us. This payphone here means and marks the future of Serbia and the life of citizens. I don't think the citizens of this kind of discussion will forgive us. I want to say that in the past ten days, when these laws are passed, I am as an MP and a man extremely pleased, because the financial flows will finally be arranged in this country. I would like to stress, on behalf of 4,000 private surgical offices, on behalf of all private doctors, that I should thank the finance minister for understanding and for identifying and equating the private and social sector. Thank you on behalf of all private doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5360	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Tax on the Entrepreneurship (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahović, Nenad Bogdanovic, Jovan Todorovic, Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic, Igor Mirović, Branislav Rankić, Mirko Cetrovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Igor Bečić, Sreto Perić and Veroljub Arsic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS - one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, DSS - one hour three minutes 36 seconds, DS Boris Tadic – 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPO – New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, SPS 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 89 item 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have an extraordinary honor to open the debate now on a law that has the lowest tax rate in Europe, it's the Company Tax Act. As we said yesterday, there are tax forms that aim to fill the budget, in order to ensure adequate public expenditure for those who cannot secure their own incomes or those who have worked at one time and who are now retired, and there are laws and tax forms that should encourage the development of the economy and certain activities. It is precisely the income tax that is the basic motivational factor for economic development in the largest number of countries. I have to say that 20-30 years ago, in parallel practice, in other countries the value added tax rate was lower when such tax forms were introduced, but therefore the profit tax was extremely high and the income tax was also paid to citizens. Meanwhile, practice has changed. It is intended that value added tax rates are as high as possible and that the profit tax rate is reduced, with particular incentives for certain activities for which the state has a particular interest in this tax form. I want to say the most important characteristics of the amendment and addition of this law. First of all, we suggest reducing the tax rate from 14% today to 10%, but we also propose that the deduction tax, which is 20% today, to dissidents and the share of profits that residents make from other residents in the Republic of Serbia. This means that an effective profit tax rate from the current 34% will be reduced to 10%. The 10% profit tax rate is the lowest profit tax rate in Europe. In other countries it ranges between 20 per cent and 30 per cent, in order to have an idea of how low this rate is, the Czech Republic has 31 per cent of this rate, Poland has 27, Romania and Slovenia 25, Bulgaria 23.5, Croatia 20, developed countries have between 20 and 30, Hungary has 18 per cent, Macedonia 15%; Ireland, which is known in Europe at the lowest profit tax rate, has 12.5%. So, about 15 years ago, Ireland introduced a very low profit tax rate. Ireland is known for its economic theory and practice as a country which, not only by this measure, but also by improving the business climate, by attracting foreign investment, has managed to create a real economic miracle, regardless of what is in a similar position, as is unfortunately Serbia today. You know that Ireland also has a problem with one part of its territory, has a problem with terrorism, and yet this law has managed to attract, in a period of 15 years, significant investment, into the EU, and in the end, it is now an example of a country that stimulates the development of its own economy. What is very important is not only to reduce the profit tax rate from 14% to 10%, but also to abolish the 20% deduction tax on dividends and the share of profits the resident receives from another resident of the Republic. What does that mean? It means that taxpayers paid 14%, however, if they wanted to transfer profits from one part of the company to another, they had 20% of the additional tax and it was certainly detimulative for business. This relief from tax cuts applies only to residents, that means all domestic legal persons and to foreign investors registered in Serbia, who are in fact residents. So, all those people who have investments here, registered companies. For those who are non-residents, the rate of tax on the 20% deduction is maintained, because we want to stimulate as many foreign companies as possible to directly establish businesses in Serbia, to invest here or participate in the privatisation process in Serbia, because if they deal with the non-resident, then the 20% tax rate remains, unless the international double taxation agreement is arranged differently. With countries with which Serbia has contracted to avoid double taxation, the usual rate is not 20 but 5%, in some rare cases 15%. We want to give incentives for direct foreign investment in Serbia and therefore stimulate, of course, the development of domestic entrepreneurship. The effect of such a reduction of the 20% tax is that it removes the effect of double taxation, so far, two rates have been paid, only one rate will now be paid, thus allowing far greater liquidity for businesses, and associated with larger investment investments. We wanted to especially stimulate investment in equipment, in fixed assets in certain areas, so this law provides for a tax loan of as much as 80% of the amount of investment in fixed assets, for a period of 10 years for more areas. So, the areas that we especially stimulate for new investments are agriculture, textiles production, leather and footwear, electricity industry, metratreasury industry, car production and other means of transport, recycling, cinematographic and video production. This means that all those who invest money and buy equipment in these activities will be able to have 80% of the value of the base tax deduction investment. The deduction can be used not only in the year of investment, but also in the next 10 years. It's extremely stimulating. Our wish was to target investments in those areas that are not, unfortunately, highly profitable, such as textile industry, leather and shoes, electricity industry, meditrate, and agriculture, to give them more favourable tax treatment than some other areas where higher profit rates are achieved. Also, this law gives tax incentives for new employment. In fact, all those who increase the number of employees receive a tax credit of 100% of the total cost of new employees. In other words, if a company has 100 workers, tomorrow it has 105, for those five workers, the total gross salary paid in that year bounces away from the tax base, with the desire to really speed up new employment. These are the main tax incentives. So this is not just about the lowest tax rate in Europe of 10%, it's about such tax incentives that lower that base, so the effect on the economy is double. Of course, in accordance with this law, as you know, so far, the Taxation Act has been settled and the rate of taxation for self-employed activity. So when the profit tax rate was 14%, the stand-alones, so craftsmen, small merchants and all those co-workers who made the turnover up to 2 million dinars a year, paid a 14% tax. The amendment of this law follows a change in the tax rate for these activities, which means that entrepreneurs in the new income tax law, which we are preparing, will also be taxed with an equivalent rate of 10%. Our intention is that entrepreneurs, businesses that do well, finally start to show the actual amount of profits they make, that they have no reason to show incorrect data in books, but to show real data and then pay a very low profit tax rate. You know for a fact that companies today have problems -- if they want to develop, they depend on bank loans, and they can't get a bank loan unless they're giving their credit balances on their business. Many companies had fictitious balances. On the one hand, it allowed them to pay lower taxes, and on the other hand, today, when the banking system is growing, they cannot get favourable loans. This law should make it possible for all those who are successful, without any fear to demonstrate a real situation in their balance sheets and to pay for this real state of affairs an extremely low rate. I say, that's only a 10% rate. We believe that this low profit tax rate, if combined with other measures of economic policy and the acceleration of the business climate, will also lead to the shift of some investments now located in Eastern Europe, especially in countries that have entered the European Union, that they will be pre-referred to Serbia. When this law is passed, and I hope that all parliamentary groups will support it, we expect it to echo in the world, not only in the country, because capital is moving to those areas where it has the best conditions of business, and one of these conditions is the rate of profit tax. If the profit tax is low, it will certainly be one of the motivational factors for entry and foreign capital into our country, and it will also be a motivational factor for investing domestic capital, which today may be in straws and may not be active. We in this law, too, want him to be as liberal as possible and the more favourable for taxpayers, have changed the way of calculating depreciation for all fixed assets, except the immovableity. In fact, in the present case, there is a linear principle, a method of depreciation, which means that each year the same is calculated for the depreciation of the underlying assets. We are now proposing to introduce a degressive amortisation method, which means an accelerated mode of depreciation of the underlying assets, in the first years more and as time goes on, less and less. We've allotted all fixed assets into only five groups. So, the first group are immovableities that continue to have a linear principle of amortisation calculation at 2.5%. We put a heavy machine in the second group. She'll have a degressive amortisation rate of 10%. The third group is other machines and equipment. It'll have a degressive amortisation rate of 15%. In the fourth group, we included light equipment and furniture, with a 20% rate. The fifth group is a short-lived asset and for it we have proposed a degressive depreciation of 30%. This means that, in just a few years, there is a write-off of basic assets, and a degressive amortisation method, so accelerated depreciation, allows further reduction of the potential tax base. Of course, now bookkeepers don't have to run cards for each individual underlying asset, they're going to run bookkeeping for groups of fixed assets, just five groups. This will greatly simplify the process and reduce the cost of bookkeeping. Also, one of the differences between the laws so far is the introduction of a self-preservation system. In other words, the taxpayer himself determines and pays the tax on profits, based on the data shown in the tax returns and the tax balance. So, there's no system so far, there's a self-taxation going on. This significantly reduces the administration of the tax administration. It will no longer make solutions to determine the level of the tax liability, but the bonds themselves will report what profits they have achieved. Of course, far greater liability will be established for taxpayers, because if they apply themselves, then they have a greater penalty if they try to show something that is not true. Of course, we will strengthen field control to see if the reported amounts are correct. So this law also has bigger fines for tax violations. In the transitional and final provisions of the law, above all, it was given a way of harmonising it with international accounting standards. This law is scheduled to enter into force eight days after its publication in the “Official Messenger”. We want to give our economy a advantage as soon as possible, although it would be much easier for the tax administration to enter into force as of 1 January 2005, because this is how half of the year will be treated under the old law, and from the moment this law is passed, new rules will be applied and it will be more complicated for our tax administration. We wanted to give that convenience. Since the tax rate is decreasing, that it has this much advantage, we want it to come into effect as soon as the Assembly adopts it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that all MP groups will support this law. I think this is one of those tax laws that can really, in the fruit of other economic policy measures planned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, significantly help the recovery of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5362	Thank you. Do the representatives of the committees want a word - the Finance Committee, Radojko Obradovic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ) I am obliged to inform that party representatives are authorised for the 6th item of the agenda: SPS - Mr Jovan Todorovic, DS-Alexandar Vlahović, DSS - Jovan Palalić. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Palalic, then Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5363	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we referred to the question a while ago -- why is there no greater inflow of foreign direct investment in our Serbia, representatives of international organisations have told us that private investors cannot be forced to invest, but to be attracted to the appropriate environment to invest freely. This is exactly the message, and it was the reason why we came from this assembly's call for regulation that will undoubtedly contribute to Serbia being one of the most attractive countries in the investment region. There is no doubt that the proposed amendments to the company's corporate tax laws on the latter, and in that sense, the DSS will support this bill. But, of course, the previous laws adopted in this Parliament, along with the laws that are at this extraordinary session, are no doubt promoting us, in the coming period, to one of the leaders in the region, which will be with the largest number of foreign investments. There is no doubt that they will amend the law supplementing the Public Procurement Act, where the procurement procedure has been made more transparent, where the procedure has been shortened, where the possibility of resolving itself more quickly and efficiently is envisaged. The Law on the Registration of Business Entities, which has been most objected to in the previous period, also provides for a simpler procedure for company registration and simplified procedure. There is also a law amending the Law on the Election of Judges, where it is headed towards independence of the judiciary, and the judiciary and administration were the main obstacle in Serbia to a greater inflow of foreign investment. There is also the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, where corruption in state bodies is contained in a more aggressive way. Of course, the Law on the termination of the tax on the fund and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Financial transactions. Yesterday's debate on this proposal for a value added tax law, which will largely eliminate the possibility of unfair competition, tax ejaculation, which will put more equal economic operators in the Serbian market, has shown that it creates an ambience that will attract foreign direct investment, because at this point they are something that is necessary for Serbia, after all those investments that came through the privatisation process. Of course, the inflow of new and direct foreign investments will bring new technology, new management, everything that is necessary to our economy. As far as the solutions proposed in the law are concerned, there are three key changes and in this sense this law is important. I have no doubt that a large number of parliamentary groups will adopt it in this House. That's, of course, down from 14% to 10%, and there's no dilemma, that's the lowest rate in the region. These amendments will also be supported by foreign investors, and in the experience of my municipality, Bačka Palanka, we already have such arrangements and such strategic partnerships, where large companies, leaders in our fields, are present. A month ago, "Synthelon" and "Target" formed a strategic partnership. Yesterday, we saw that "Kazione" in Pirara chelarevo, who also entered an important investment in our municipality and opened a new plant, and there is also a French "Sufle", leader in the production of beer malt, when it comes to "Mulinks" pastries. Of course, there are other companies, which are exactly expecting such foreign investors and strategic partners, and there is no doubt that such a law will contribute to that. Of course, what the minister said in his opening statement, tax cuts after deduction of dividends and shares in profits between residents, encourage and strengthen the investment capacity of our businesses. It is very important to point out once again, that we have concluded a large number of contracts to avoid double taxation and in this way we will avoid the transfer of a large number of companies from our country, if this is how this problem is solved. Of course, it is an incentive, as has already been pointed out, that foreign companies are registered here in our country. It is also very important that the process of amortising the underlying assets is regulated more easily and more precisely and that the whole process that existed is simplified in this way. There is no doubt that it is a very important provision in the proposal for this law and that tax credit is introduced with legal entities that are registered and which have the status of small and medium-sized enterprises. When it comes to investment in own resources, it is something that will certainly act incentivically and to the opening of new small and medium-sized enterprises. And there is no doubt that through those provisions that speak of the fact that tax credit is introduced for those who, in one period, fire a certain number of employees, but in the coming period, will encourage employment. It's something that, at the moment we have a large number of unemployed, is very important. There is no doubt that there are other provisions, which simplify the procedure in a simpler and shorter way. In that sense, it is important to support this law. Of course, it should also be pointed out that the laws that follow in the next period, which is also the law on social security and income contributions, are certainly rounding up a picture that is clearly seen from all this forward, which is that this government has a very clear and consistent policy when it comes to encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging investment in Serbia and in general the development of entrepreneurship. Because in a situation where the economy is on its knees, which is not disputed, when we have a large number of unemployed, the only way to make economic growth possible, solves the issue of the unemployed, are foreign investments, but also the opening of new businesses to solve the problem of unemployment. As I said, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this law. This is a great law. Serbia will return, no doubt, to the position and position of leaders in the region when it comes to direct foreign investments. It surrounds matter with all these proposed laws, which are further on the agenda, and with the ones that have been brought, promotes us to a country where foreign investors will find the opportunity to realise their interests and solve our problems of economy and unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5364	Authorised representative of the Democratic Party list, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party will support this law on amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act. But the expected fact of this law really needs to be seen realistically. Indeed, appropriate optimistic expectations should be grounded regarding the level of foreign investment and the impact of this law on the future level of economic activity. When we got the bill, that's exactly how we analyzed the proposed legal text. On the one hand, we do not believe that the impact on the economic activity of existing economic operators, operating within Serbia's economic system, will be particularly pronounced, as the facts say that further accumulated losses are greater than accumulated profits. Therefore, this law should only be seen in the light of the potential impact on new investments, on new investment, whether foreign or domestic investors. It is true that incentives in the tax sphere can positively affect the overall level of foreign investment, such as the fact that incentives in the tax sphere come as cream on cake, and that this is not the main criterion in deciding whether to invest in a country or not. In other words -- much more important for the expected level of foreign investment is stability, above all political stability, the elimination of all political-economic risks, the risks of funds and, ultimately, all potential financial risks. If you don't have this previous one, if you have a high risk environment, then you can cancel the profit tax, and yet there will be no expected investment level. We have so far achieved a relatively low tax rate on corporate profits in the region, i.e. corporate profit tax, and believe me, in 2003, we did not achieve 1,300,000 euros in direct foreign investment thanks to the low profit tax rate, but thanks above all to one very clear single economic policy that was being conducted, and this unity existed in relation to those who ran economic policy and on the other hand institutions that led a credit-monetary policy. Therefore, there was no misunderstanding in the realisation of economic, fiscal and monetary policies, despite the unreal sparks that occurred in the relationship between these institutions. I want to say that I doubt that this law will give positive effects on the level of foreign direct investment, and I will try to explain it in the future. Let's see what the degree of risk of investment is in our economy, whether it's smaller or bigger. When we talk about the risk of investment, we usually measure it with three basic aspects. The first are the risks associated with the funds, the second being the political-economic risk and the third financial risk. As we have said many times in principle that some legal texts, which are addressed by the Government to the Assembly, are good legal texts, and among other things because we participated in their preparation and supported these legal texts, so we will now say that the agreement that the Government, primarily the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, has reached a good deal with the London Club and represents a step further in eliminating existing financial risks. What is not good is political instability and it seems to me that today political instability is generated only in one institution, which is in the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, we have received the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, who is just using his political speech to force and act on political stabilisation, on the other hand we have a daily thorny and daily conflict within the Government of the Republic of Serbia between individual ministries, which indirectly says there is no single economic policy that the government has to lead. It seems to me that many ministers in economic resorries still feel that it is possible to launch economic activity with some kind of command model of self-improvement or a command model of the government's behaviour of the Republic of Serbia and that there is still regret about public works, only no one has an answer to the question of where these public works will be financed, whether it will be a re-inflation generator. Not only does it seem to me, but the whole public also sees that there is disagreement over the conduct of economic policy within the government. Let's look a little wider, let's see what the systemic risks are, and of course this has to do with the topic we're talking about, that we don't expect too much from the possible fact of reduced income taxes and increased investment attractiveness, to see what these are systemic risks, and how the executive body in this country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is affecting the elimination of systemic risks. We have a question of harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic systems. It is the biggest systemic risk that today, besides the other two that I will mention, has a decisive impact on foreign investors at the moment they decide on their possible business activity in Serbia. I am not sure that within the government of the Republic of Serbia there is unity when it comes to the future of Serbia-Montenegro's state union and the subsequent harmonisation of economic systems, so that we finally have the rounded borders of a country in which an foreign investor should invest its money and thus eliminate one systemic risk. The Democratic Party will provide full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the final harmonisation of economic relations, i.e. the economic systems of Serbia-Montenegro, because it believes it should not be played with the future of the state union of the Serbian and Montenegrin people. Let's see the second issue that pressures and how it affects the degree of risk of investment. It is a question that also requires great courage and final determination by those who today run politics, i.e. have executive power in this country. It's a question of The Hague. Do you really think that Serbia, Serbia's economy, will go very well and that the number of foreign investors will increase until all these systemic risks are removed? There is a dominant role of those who make decisions, a dominant role in which their courage is expressed to make such decisions, all for the benefit of citizens, that is, for the benefit of future significantly increased economic activities. When you have a political instability that is generated within the government itself because of various conceptual opinions about economic policy, because of the unpreparedness of one or another political party to make an important decision, then you have a situation in which Serbia is today. I'll remind you, last year we had 1,300,000 euros of foreign direct investment, and of course it is not just the executive authority that ran the economic policy but also the institutions that ran the credit and monetary policy, which are not in the government. Today we're just talking about a 700,000-euro plan, and that apart from one investment that one presidential candidate officially opened during his campaign, we don't have a single direct foreign investment in the announcement. We have a promise that big names will invest, stop a very important process of building a private sector, which is a privatisation process, and instead of encouraging the destimulation of potential investors. This is not only about foreign investors, but also about domestic investors. In such a situation, we pass the law on amendments and amendments to the Company Tax Act and expect it to suspend all errors and any disagreements that exist today within the political coalition that forms the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5366	Will you use the other ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5367	I'm done. Despite the support we will give to amend this law, I'm afraid the range of such economic policies will be small. In other words, I'm afraid that our optimistic expectations will very quickly convince reality and that this dream of the direct effect of this law as a bubble of soap will break our reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5368	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Milko Stimac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5369	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I call for a violation of Article 99. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With all due respect to all colleagues, and you know that the G17 Group of MPs plus always adheres to it and appreciates and respects everyone in this room, I must note that this is the second time in two days that representatives of the DS parliamentary group are not talking about issues that are on the agenda, but on the contrary, they are talking about the economic results of the previous government, while expressing doubts that this government will do something good. Privatisation is also being discussed, privatisation is being attacked, and all of this is being put into a context that should point to the instability of this government, which, according to a respected counterpart, Vlahovic said, is a conceptual nature, since there is no consensus on the concept of economic policy development in the government. That's not the point. It's about fighting corruption. So it's not about dissent of conceptual nature, it's about someone being corrupt, and we're fighting it. That's the first one. Secondly, I just feel called to say something that we haven't said out loud so far, believing in that word of cohabitation, which is now once again becoming one in a series of modern words, in addition to transparency, we now have cohabitation. A colleague of Branka Bosnjak has found us a few words, a few meanings of this word from Vujaklia, however, no cohabitation means that we remain silent while you beat us. What are we talking about? Now I have to go out here and say -- what we saw from the reforms in the previous government, we saw as it had G17 plus and its representatives, and that's the fact; as well as macroeconomic and monetary stability. Progress, look at the banking system: benefits, write-offs, the Paris Club, the London Club, the Russian Club, is not in continuity, but whenever the G17 plus takes a job we have a positive effect. This would have been done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5370	Mr. Stimac, I warn you that the same member is referring to you. You're talking about the agenda. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5371	This whole job would have been solved a long time ago, and we would certainly have positive effects from these laws that we're talking about and that are on the agenda today. Why did you drive us out of the government, I guess you know. Where we were gone, there was corruption, riding, stretching, pushing the capable. These laws go in favor of the capable. A law that reduces tax rates stimulates businesses, entrepreneurs, capable, which is the one Serbia, which G17 plus insists on, no matter what. In co-habitation, real or whatever, so for a stable, strong and capable Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5372	Replica, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5373	I don't know why my colleague Stimac feels called when we talk about economic policy, since it's known that this is a legislative body, it's not executive, it's not his responsibility to run economic policy. When I said privatisation in Serbia stopped, that's a fact. I haven't said for a moment that it should stop fighting corruption. The fight against corruption must run continuously 24 hours a day for 12 months a year. Not only in the field of privatisation, but in all other fields, please let us see what plans are in the construction of the private sector from now on. We have these plans, not us, the public doesn't see those plans. I'm not going to mention that famous story about three envelopes every social director knows. When a problem arises, criticise previous leadership, but very soon comes that third envelope when three envelopes are to be written and left to one of its future successors. Secondly, I made it very clear that we will welcome all the moves that go towards eliminating all financial risks. I don't know, you obviously didn't listen to me when I said the deal was made with the London Club was good. But, please, the fact is that there is no unique approach between individual ministries within the government to conduct economic policy. Today we read about how public works, how by employing infrastructure, we can provide hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs, as if Kane was born 10 years ago or 10 years ago, Kenyan policy was implemented, not 60 or more years ago. So all the time we talk in principle, we praise what's good, but also how we harshly criticize what's bad and say it's justified. One more thing, Mr. Squishy. No one ever kicked the G17 out of the government. As I recall, your minister resigned from the government, Mr Milosavljevic, Minister of Health. No one has ever expelled G17 from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, except for Mr Milosavljevic, you had no other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you when you come to this pay phone to tell the facts. As the fact that it is not an agreement with the London Club only thanks to the efforts made over the past two to three months, but rather to the efforts made since 2001, as the agreement with the Paris Club is not only the result of the work of the G17, because it would be too pretentious to say that only DS experts are responsible for everything that has been good and done in the past three years. I ask you, however, to keep in mind that on the issues of the elimination of financial risks, the London Club, especially the London Club and bilateral risks with Russia, and another one that is not regulated with China, which is our legacy from the 1990s, these are issues that are not resolved for a month and two, which require among other things a suitable macroeconomic political environment, to finally be resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5374	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. You'll call a member. Excuse me, Mr. Todorovic. Just so there's no abuse of facts, I'm taking the opportunity to inform. Indeed, there was only one DS expert in the Serbian government, and this is Mrs. Gordana Matkovic, and only one from G17 plus, it is Mr. Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5375	Mr. President, I'm calling for article 100. I'll be very brief. Of course, as MPs are obliged to address each other with respect and to speak the truth about the pay phone, since it has been mentioned by both the G17 and the DS MPs, their argument about who is responsible for the write-off of the debt at the Paris or London Club is the most credited by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, who beat Slobodan Milosevic in the elections on 24 September 2000 and, of course, opened the borders of our country afterwards. Serbia was admitted to all institutions, including the international financial institution, and the first talks on all these topics began, of course, by Mr Vojislav Kostunica. That's true, and then the others joined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5376	This was according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You're not asking to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after these little charms of MPs from the so-called so-called. The democratic bloc, allow me, on behalf of the SPS and our parliamentary groups, to make several views on the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act. Since we are objective people, we also view this law objectively. I could, since there was an assessment here of whether it was very good, excellent or good, to evaluate it with an estimate – good. It would be great if the motionor had dared to go a little more courageously to amend and supplement this bill, especially members of 15 and 50a. which is not the subject of these changes and additions. It will be great, of course, if the parliamentary majority accepts the amendments submitted by the SPS to this law. There is no doubt that every MP, including myself, supports any proposal coming from the government and the finance ministry, which means reducing tax obligations for businesses. So, and a reduction in the profit tax rate. Surely this country lacks many investments, both domestic and foreign, and the proposed changes can to some extent stimulate increased investment. But again, as the MP who spends his entire life in the economy, I ask myself why there are restrictions in these stimulations. It was similar with Mr Djelic, who on the one hand gave, and on the other a little hidden, at least for those who were not experts in this area, took from the same taxpayers. I mentioned a member of the 15th basic law, in which there are certain spending limits that a certain economic operator, i.e. a business during a business year, can do and be recognised in the tax balance for the tax on profit tax. I suppose most MPs have noticed that, because that's the old text of a law that is experiencing, according to this proposal, a little cosmetic change, and I'm going to talk about it when they're amendments. Look, please, expenditure on health, scientific, educational, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes are recognised as expenditure up to 3.5% of total income. Please, if I interpret the law well, and life tells me that I'm right, cumulatively, that means in sum, all these costs can be up to 3.5% of the total income achieved, without being treated as profit in the tax balance. What does that mean? That means, when you go over this percentage, let's say 4%, 5%, 10%, all of this in your tax balance is taken as a basis for profit tax. I ask you, how a company, a factory, like my password "Viscosis", that has dirty technology, in some way and dirty production, chemical, etc., will fit in to protect the environment in a way that prescribes appropriate laws, and that expenditure does not exceed 3.5% of total income. Then you'll have a company that's de facto on its knees and is now trying to get out of the crisis treating yourself like someone who's making a profit and who is required by this provision to be at a height exceeding 3.5% of the reckonings and to pay taxes on profit to the state. Take education expenses, please, as you can get to a quality expert, I am talking about manufacturing engineers, if employers, business owners, whether they are social, whether they are state, private, are not ready to send these people to appropriate specializations, at fairs in the country or abroad, to invest in education and training of these staffs. We have limited these expenditures here, I repeat, cumulatively all together to 3.5%. How are we going to pay attention to the health care of workers in the plants where the lives and health of these workers are at stake, because it's an out-of-date technology. It is especially important for me to take this moment into account in the protection of the environment. Yesterday, I read in the paper, I mean, the harsh truth in which one foreign tourist says – Serbia is a very beautiful country, but only what comes from garbage. If we are to limit environmental costs in this way, we will have deposits at every step, and we already have them, starting with not even knowing what is placed in the appropriate barrel, until we destimulate those who are ready to invest in this area. It's one difficult question for me, and why do you even limit any costs? Take, for example, the cost of advertising, propaganda and representation, are recognised as the expenditure of 3% of the household income. We want new productions, we want new products, we want to conquer both domestic and new markets. Please, I know from experience that when you enter into the production of a new product from the moment it is produced until the moment a customer buys it, it must go on for several months and sometimes years. Investment in winning the market is exactly that marketing and advertising. In some productions, the participation of the expenditure goes more than 30% of the total income to win a new market. I can agree that this is an exception, but there is no need to limit that expenditure to 3% of the total income, because it is impossible with 3% to make such a marketing campaign, find the market and attract customers to buy these products. In particular, it should be borne in mind that in some ways it is illusory to limit it, because such expenditure is taxed by 20% at this point, and as of 1 January 2005, will be taxed at this general rate of 18%, as provided for in the Law on Value Added Tax. When it comes to restrictions, we also have one restriction, or one expenditure that is not recognised to economic operators, which is gifts and contributions given to political parties. I think it is incompatible with the existing solution in the current Law on the financing of political parties. Please, I would understand that it is said above the amount allowed in the Law on the financing of political parties. And not to exclude the entire expenditure from the expenditure, thus artificially increasing the amount of profits and essentially taxing additionally with these 10%. Why do you even do that? Especially what is true, and we all know that there are political parties that are founders of limited liability companies, i.e. companies that commit, independently as legal entities on the market, make appropriate incomes and profits, and that is precisely those revenues for financing political parties. This is not prohibited by law, except by companies dealing with broadcasting activity and broadcasting TV or radio programmes, where political parties are forbidden to be the founders of television or to be founders of companies that are also the founders of television, or radio stations. There is no point in pushing some restrictions, and these are old solutions, because this is not what Minister Dinkic invented as a restriction, he simply did not go to the end in eliminating some of these restrictions. Because they're just going to make a fuss, we're just going to have increased controls and increased costs of these controls in these entities, so that we can now get to the point of determining whether a legal entity, based on health, humanitarian, environmental, environmental costs, has passed 3.5% and whether or not it has properly accounted for profit taxes. We're just making a fuss. As an SPS, we have proposed several amendments that mainly concern this matter and I hope that the Proposer will have enough hearing to accept these amendments to correct that text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5378	Are you using another 10 minutes? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5379	Yeah. Take article 50a; which is not at all the subject of these changes. Of course, I couldn't, not even any other MP, submit an amendment to that article, because it's not the subject of these changes and it would be, in a way, excessive. But I'm talking about courage in the process. The member, as is known, predicts that those legal entities or those investors who invest more than 600m dinars in Serbia's economy, at that time corresponded to 10m euros, and employ 100 and more workers, will be exempt from profit tax over the next 10 years. In the past two years, from the moment that member of the law was passed, I could ask both Mr. Vlahovic and many others who were in the previous government, how many such investors were indeed from the moment of adoption of the law to today. I'm telling you, very little. Why? Because for permanent investors, the figure of 10m euros is a large figure. Because for them too, it is a big investment and a big investment. My thinking then went in the direction I suggested to Mr Djelic, he did not accept, to stimulate every investor who invested over a million euros in this way and hired more than 20 workers. Take one simple bill. If 10 million are now stimulated, and I suggest it be a million, it means we'll have ten investors per million euros. If each of them will employ 20 workers, it is 200 workers, for 100 workers more than is stimulated in this situation. If each of these 100 workers who are above this 100 will receive 200 euros per month, the average in the Republic of Serbia, that is 20,000 euros per month. If the state will take 70 per cent and 14 000 euros each month based on taxes and contributions to those 20,000 euros, then turned into dinars means about 11-12 million dinars per year, and for a period of 10 years, it means 120 million dinars of more money in the republican budget. Why do we hesitate to stimulate just those who invest with the greatest possible measure? Because this one puts it back. You give it to him on the pot, he puts it back on the bridge and returns it multiple. They'll be attracted to the so-called. relatively small investors who will invest over a million euros to start some production, to introduce new technologies, to adopt new products and new markets. So that's the part about the lack, let me say, of seeing or the courage of this ministry to move on. Look at Article 48, we have so far had a solution that companies that in a certain year, for which profit tax is calculated, have the right to tax incentives of 20% of the amount of investments made in that year. We now have the same thing, but the restriction that that release can't be greater than half of you're counting on profits in that year. What does that mean? Practically, one company invested 200,000 dinars in investments this year. At the end of the business year, it made 100,000 profits. By law, you have the right to 40 grand, 20 percent of 200 grand, and in this case you can have that 40 grand as a deductible tax item. If you had achieved 70,000 dinars of profit tax, then you wouldn't be able to have that 40,000 tax discount, but would have been reduced to half of the total amount you're counting. I don't see why that's being limited. Then there are exceptions to small enterprises, which are said to be – we will go with a stronger discount, 40% of the investments invested, but so that it does not exceed 70% of the tax on profit. What's with the complications? We've seen a financially negative effect on the budget of 900 million dinars, if this figure is correct from the reasoning, for this year 2004. This basically means that with so much funding, the government, or the budget, is trying to boost the business activities of all businesses, regardless of who invests in them. I have a few more objections, but I'm afraid I'm not going to spread that story, so don't forget what I was talking about. When they're amendments, then I'll make a few more arguments about these things. So, the SPS has a positive relationship with this law, but I think that the parliamentary majority, especially the proposing, should seriously consider amendments, and not, say, at the Finance Committee, easily reject them, counting on the Socialists to swallow it as something that is normal. That's how they previously rejected our amendments, but I assure you that the largest number of amendments later and in Mr Djelic's proposals, and also in this minister's proposals, were contained in the laws that we discussed here in this conference. So someone looked at it anyway and saw that they were good amendments, so he installed them as his own in the proposal, which doesn't bother us, but why after six months or a year, if you can seriously consider the objection or amendment and install it into the basic text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5380	Thank Jovi Todorovic. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups or authorised proposings answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, DS and G17 plus. First came the Messenger of the people, Takac Istvan, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5381	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, which was adopted in 2001, has already been amended twice over the past, which is enough to suggest that the state in the transition of its laws, which directly or indirectly contain economic regulations for which the inopartner is interested, must adapt to new challenges, and that they are tempting to the ino-capital, that there are essential regulations which are similar or identical to those that foreign businessmen have in similar markets. The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group supports the proposed law on changes and additions to the Company Tax Act. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act determines how international accounting standards, which have been applicable since the beginning of 2004, will apply to the establishment of a basis for the corporate profit tax. The case works, Article 7. The bill, which refers to Article 10 of the basic law, regulates depreciation; we heard earlier in the opening statement by Mr. Minister that the depreciation of fixed funds is classified into five groups. So far, several hundreds of categories have been foreseen by the sublaw and the basic amortisation nomenclature, with different rates for the depreciation of fixed assets. The more he deviates from the current method of accounting, which is a degressive method of denunciation, which is foreseen for most of the fixed assets in category two and five of the bill's proposals, I believe that this method is more favourable for production activities than the proportional method that has so far been in place. I would like to point out that in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, there is a very positive shift in investment to encourage new investments. The tax credit predicts that the economic operator will refuse to pay the profit tax 20 % of the funds invested for the purchase of equipment and machinery of its basic activity, from its tax base, on which he can pay the tax on profits, on the difference in the account and pay the profit tax, as well as on next year's fee. In Article 48. The draft law amending and supplementing it is provided for: the percentage of 20 was left, with up to 50% of the tax charged in the year in which the investment was made. Secondly, for small businesses, this relationship is projected from 40% to 70%. Thirdly, a new member of 48a is taxing 16 works, we have heard this before, these are: agriculture, production activity of textiles and yarns, production of machinery and devices, etc., in which the tax credit is recognised as even 80% of the funds invested. Finally, if a special law establishes that certain actions should be developed faster, the government may also set further privileges for these cases. Ladies and gentlemen, what is most important in this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law is Article 25, which means amending Article 39, which sets the percentage for determining the profits of the company, which is 10%. I must stress that the only percentage for 2004 was 14%. In earlier years, that percentage was twice as high, i.e. 20%. From this comes, in my opinion, a clear message to current and future businessmen, businesses: firstly, to further develop their businesses in these areas; secondly, to legalise their business, which means to reduce the grey economy; thirdly, they regularly carry out their obligations to everyone with whom they are in business fiscal obligations and thus also to the state, and to pay taxes on profits. I propose to all parliamentary parties to support and accept this draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5382	The word has the People's MP Zoran Antic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words as a private entrepreneur. First of all, I would like to assure you that private entrepreneurs are always ready to carry out their tax obligations when it comes to the state. The most common reason is the inability to financially endure the often excessive burdens the state imposes on them. With this in mind, the main topic and the main debate will be on how much this law, in fact, facilitates the position of businesses and private entrepreneurs, I would also say independent actions, since Mr. Minister has already announced it as some future law. So far we haven't had a value added tax, so far we haven't had fiscal cash. This was one of the reasons, along with the other, that when the tax base was drawn up, this tax base itself was much smaller than real, so that so far, realistically speaking, 14% of the income tax has not been charged from what was actually achieved. By introducing fiscal cash registers, ousting sales taxes and introducing value added tax, only the ministry has agreed that 50% of the revenues will be increased in the budget itself, so this reduction, which at first looks quite large and will not be so large, if there is one at all, given the current practice of businesses across Serbia. What I'd like to mention and what might have bothered me as an entrepreneur, it's about the discharge, about expenditures that are not approved in Article 7a. I believe that the fines and pens paid by private entrepreneurs, based on some tax offences that have been committed, should be included in expenditures, because if they have already paid the fine, if they have already been punished in some way, why additionally punish them with another 10%. That's the amount of profit tax that this law prescribes. I also believe that private entrepreneurs have a big problem with interest on untimely paying taxes and contributions. I claim that the vast majority of them are not prepared to enter the risk of paying interest, that they are forced to do so by the fact that our economy is terribly poor, that it is a large amount of unmistakable payments, that they cannot make a profit on their own, but that very often from craftsmanship they pay all the taxes and burdens the state expects of them. In terms of depreciation, I believe that the new way of calculating the amortisation of the funds is not bad, but what bothers me, as always, of the MPs of the SRS, is the right of Mr. Minister to classify them by group and to determine how to determine the depreciation of the report. I'd say a few words about these reliefs when it comes to dividends on action. This is very good and what is very positive for the further development of action in Serbia. We've had a lot of trouble with the Tax Privatisation Committee, which is paid on the basis of income by stockholders, but it's a pretty small amount that won't stimulate action in Serbia. Too many mistakes were made by the adoption of the Charter Act of Values. Small shareholders are not protected by law, and we have no investment funds law, so I don't think this discharge, which is positive, will create a significant shift in Serbia's action. As an entrepreneur, at the end of this law, I was also disturbed by too many penalties, penalties that are even 50 times greater than the penalties that have been applied so far. Penalty policy is significantly more severe. I'd just say what I think we all feel, that the reason for this low level of entrepreneurship is the period in which we lived and the way our economy ran in the previous period, so the socialism behind us, but that it takes more time for entrepreneurs to develop. You don't have to be too hard on entrepreneurs. We, obviously, will have to rely on domestic entrepreneurs today, first of all. With the development of entrepreneurship and a much better organisation and production, as well as an organisation at the level of the public sector, we will be able to emerge from these economic difficulties. It is necessary to have a significantly milder attitude towards entrepreneurs, to separate what is malicious, what is the abuse of the law, and to realize that it is not easy to be an entrepreneur today in this economic situation in which Serbia is located.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5384	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic (not here). The next will be MP Milan Markovic. It's 2:00 p.m. and I'm taking a break until 3:00. I ask the messengers to stay in the benches, because during the break we will hold a session of the seventh extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5385	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please, before we continue to work to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Since we've established that we have a quorum, we're continuing to work. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. He's not there. The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the MP Arsen Đuric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my opinion is that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company's Tax Tax Act is chronically and substancefully not accidentally included in this session and it is not by chance that this reduction of the tax rate from 14% to 10% is basic because it brings it as a newspaper. Namely, what are the companies in Serbia that do business with profit? There are very few of them, and they are mostly enterprises over which privatisation has been carried out over the past three or four years. It is that twenty of Serbia's most powerful families and individuals bought most of the profitable enterprises in Serbia and one part, such as the cement industry, the tobacco industry, the chemical industry, were bought by foreign partners. I think this is dictated outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, from some other centres, and that it is deliberately required at this session to adopt this law, at which the tax rate would be reduced from 14% to 10%. I don't think it's by any chance that on the agenda of this session, as a first point, there was a bill on bankruptcy proceedings. A bankruptcy procedure can end with bankruptcy or reorganisation. Given the state of business in Serbia, it is almost likely that the largest number of bankruptcy procedures will end in bankruptcy. When it comes to the law under which the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers is established, it said that the agency's work, as well as the establishment, will be sponsored by foreign and domestic legal and natural persons, and thus it is seen that the basic activity is not to license bankruptcy managers, but rather to collect data on the situation in the Serbian economy. Now I would ask, given that we have concluded that the largest number of companies operating with profits are already the property of foreign companies and the most powerful people in Serbia, and that the other part that has not yet been privatised mostly does not make any profit and will not be subject to these taxes, why this did not go to tax increases. It could have increased from 14% to 18%. I don't think the minister should have suggested it, because those behind this law and this reduction have ordered to go down, because it is now necessary to make a profit as much as possible for those who have become the owners of the largest part of the profitable Serbian economy. It has been said that the law will boost the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore probably employment. I don't remember any law that was passed here, concerned these areas, that it wasn't said to encourage economic development. Unfortunately, the witnesses are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we MPs who are talking about these laws that it always turns into an opposite of itself and that there is mainly the dismissal of workers and the reduction of all business activities. One combination, i.e. comparison with value added tax, was carried out here. Since the budget will be charged from value added tax in the largest part since the beginning of 2005, and this tax will be negligible when it comes to budgeting, it is clear why this bill proposes a tax reduction, but there is an increase in VAT base to include as many taxpayers as possible in paying taxes and thus fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There were also words that non-residents, such taxpayers, would pay 20% of the tax, while residents would pay 10%, but I don't think that it will mean anything since the largest number of non-residents, after the implementation of the bankruptcy law, when the Serbian economy is simply destroyed and the largest number of enterprises, when the bankruptcy process ends with bankruptcy, will very easily come for small money to businesses and they will thus become business entities, legal entities that will practically operate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thus becoming residents and thus will not have much impact. In stimulating investment in equipment, I don't think there are any significant objections, but in increasing the number of employees, that legal person that increases the number of employees will have the right to lower the base for profit tax. I don't think it's going to stimulate businessmen to hire people, for the simple reason that they're much more paid to fire those who are employed, who are considered redundant because of these other benefits, social and pay, but that they are potentially reducing 5% of the profit tax by receiving a certain number of new employees. I also don't think that businesses will be encouraged to show good business, because by showing good business and paying profit tax they would be in a position to get credit. Given that loans are very unfavourable and that interest is high, I think that it will be much more appropriate for businesses to invest further in the process of production than to potentially show profits, thus paying taxes, and then by borrowing to be in debt under very unfavourable interest and thus increasing their business activities. I think that this law is left to several members that the minister himself determines certain things related to the law and I think that this is really too much of a burden on the minister, since in these previous laws, which we have discussed, there are also a lot of obligations. I don't think, no matter who it is, he won't even be able to work for 20 hours a day, leave anything to the case and take care of everything himself. I don't think that's a good thing, and it could have been arranged by this bill, not by letting it be arranged afterwards. I think it's basic why this law proposes reducing the tax rate from 14% to 10%. The main reason, though, is that this won't affect budget filling. Otherwise, that it is the other way around and that these will include a large number of economic operators, assuming that the Serbian economy works well. I think the minister would never suggest this, because above all, filling the budget is important from the aspect of the finance minister, while business and business activities are not important to the economy minister, and I would say to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because if they were long before this assembly, some laws governing the functioning of the Serbian economy, such as amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and repealing the Labour Act, which has long been proposed by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5387	The People's Messenger Arsen Đuric has the word, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5388	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Company's Tax Act, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports the bill because it brings a number of incentive measures and greatly simplifies the process of taxing profits. The adoption of this law achieves several positive effects, of which several of the most important ones can be singled out: a reduction of the tax rate from 14 to 10%; a reduction of tax after deduction on paid dividends and a share in profits between residents; a simplification of tax collection through the establishment of a system of self-taxation; a simplification of the tax depreciation system; and the harmonisation of this law is carried out in compliance with the new accounting and audit law and with international accounting standards. By reducing the tax rate from 14% to 10%, we get the lowest rate in Europe and thus become a very interesting market for investment, higher investment investments, both domestic and foreign capital, compared to countries in which the rate is significantly higher. Unlike current practice, this law stimulates investments in certain manufacturing activities, by allowing a taxpayer who makes investments in basic assets in their own activity to obtain tax credits of up to 80% in certain activities such as agriculture, textile industry, footwear industry, machinery industry, and thus significantly triggers production in these companies. The elimination of the tax on dividends and profit shares eliminates double taxation and significantly improves the liquidity of enterprises so that there remains plenty of room for new investment investments. All these systemic changes in laws contribute to the creation of a positive environment for new investment investments, to the launch of production and investment cycles and to the creation of new jobs, but there is an indirect increase in income from taxes and other public revenues, because there is an increase in the tax base and an increase in the number of taxpayers. In addition to the systemic changes, amendments to this law provide for a simplification of the tax collection process by introducing a self-taxation system. This means that taxpayers are given the opportunity to assess and account for taxes themselves and thus raise the level of their responsibilities, but the administration of the tax administration is reduced. Another major amendment to the law is to simplify the tax depreciation system. In fact, the current law stipulates that the underlying assets were classified in more than 1000 groups, with the same number of depreciation rates, and this law stipulates that the underlying assets are classified into only five groups with a single depreciation rate for each group in particular. For all of this, I repeat once again, the DSS supports the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act and I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5389	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is one thing to say, except for the essential part, where the company's profit tax is reduced from 14% to 10%, which is one of the few tax reliefs that this government provides for Serbian business operators, all other things are the most common cosmetic changes to the already existing Company Tax Act. This Mr. Minister has only changed certain provisions in certain members. They are no longer in the 16th article, but they are now in 7, 7a or so, but in principle it is the law that this congregation has already passed in some earlier period. The continuity of the previous government continues with this, when certain provisions of such and similar laws are at stake. In Article 7a of the Law on the burden of expenditure shall not be recognised, so in point 5), interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes, and in point 6) fines and pences. It's a little strange, considering that a tax-reporting legal person, but only because he doesn't have enough money to pay him, will pay a fine in a tax offense of two to ten times the amount of tax he's charged and has not paid. And to pay, again under the threat of execution, five times the amount of tax in the name of tax costs. This does not allow a legal person or entity to display it in their final account as a cost, but should qualify it as an income. Just because someone at a certain point wasn't liquid. But that's why the tax administration, if someone is too late to pay taxes, is also applying a dragon interest policy. I have long listened to promises that the 0.2% penalty interest per day will be lifted, however, still the republican tax administrations thus account for interest. The only advantage is compared to earlier that it is no longer done. From day to day, the debt is not re-orientated, but simply on the amount owed by someone is calculated interest of 0.2% per day until the final payment and interest and debt resulting from the tax procedure. The minister of this bill seems to want to fill in the revenues made by the judicial authorities. In order for someone who has a certain outstanding claim over 60 days of age to be able to present that unpaid claim as tax or expense, he will have to sue his debtor. It's obvious he doesn't know Mr. Minister or knows, and he pretends he doesn't know what court fees are now. Just to remind Mr. Minister, because in a political campaign during the extraordinary parliamentary elections, one of the key pre-election promises was to cut taxes, both republican and judicial. For the matter to be even worse, you can now see the list of trade courts in executive departments to see the cases being conducted for three, four, five, six years in the executive procedure, and have a judicial decision and simply no judiciary, nor the executive court has any desire to bring that percentage to an end. But that's why anyone who wants to request the protection of the court's fees is charged in advance, and now you're simply forcing the taxpayer, so that a certain claim he didn't charge could be shown as a cost, to turn to the court and expose it to new costs, new problems and new obligations. Also in this disputed article of this 16th draft law, which surprised me again, given the economic situation we are in, that one position of the previous, or still applicable law should be deleted, which is a provision under which the burden of expenditure in the tax balance is recognised and reservations for other costs and the risk of their accounting in accordance with the provisions of the law governing accounting. The minister simply does not want to allow the company he wants to invest or to protect itself from non-solved business entities to leave certain funds in that reserve, but also has to pay taxes on the income of citizens. The question arises why such a policy is guided only by legal persons participating in ordinary traffic, why it is not applied to business banks as well. Because I still claim that Mr. Minister belongs to the banking lobby, why, in such a way, the reserve funds that banks deposit on their parties are not taxed on this principle, but exclusively for ordinary legal entities, in this case businesses, no matter what kind. Mr. Minister will have to answer that question eventually. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, Mr. Minister, is that you were here after this pay phone today during the afternoon session, mentioning some commissions that the SRS took in Zemun. I don't know where you get that from, but it's time for you to ask yourself why the people instead of that plus, what you have in your name, they're putting a percentage more and more on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5391	The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5392	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, we have before us a definitely advanced bill, a positive law that will directly affect the development of investment and economy, in general and the economy. So it's a bit surprising that even for political reasons, we have a misrepresentation of this law and a very malicious interpretation of it on the agenda. In the philosophy of business and capital, one of the most important factors, when deciding where to invest, is the state's profit tax rate. Thus, by determining the rate of government income tax, it shows how ready it is to create conditions for attracting new investors and new investments, but also how ready it is to make existing firms that are already working to reinvest and develop production and business. The bill that lowers tax rates from 14% to 10% shows that the government has a positive relationship on this issue. The proposed 10% rate is definitely the lowest compared to all countries in the region and to countries that are EU members. For example, it is three times lower than the rate in the Czech Republic, Poland, BiH, is two times lower than in Croatia, Slovenia and Hungary. The adoption of this law, which G17 Plus MPs will vote for, as we promised Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign, creates definitely preconditions for attracting capital in a long-term period, which will also boost very competitiveness, above all, for countries in the environment, and for those investors who will seek more favourable business conditions because of the possible faster entry of these countries into the EU. The additional effect to be achieved is the rise in revenue from indirect taxes and other public revenues due to the increase in taxpayers' income as a result of the increase in domestic and foreign investments. I would especially point out the two positive consequences of the adoption of this law. The first is to stimulate investment in fixed assets, therefore in production, in activities such as agriculture, textile production, leather and footwear. In these activities, a large number of workers in Serbia are working and there are evident potentials, but basic resources need to be restored in order to increase productivity and quality of production. These two preconditions are necessary for this type of production to become competitive on the foreign market, where these three production branches are naturally defined. Secondly, tax incentives for new employment, stimulating a positive labour situation is the second side effect of adopting such a law, which means employers will be encouraged to hire new workers, and more new workers than they will eventually fire, but also to report them as a new workforce. Since the adoption of this law is the realisation of some political ideas G17 plus, which we have given and promised to the citizens in our election campaign, G17 plus will surely support this law, because it definitely contributes to the development and formation of a new positive economy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5393	The People's MP Sreto Peric has the word, and let the MP Slobodan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this law to be like a sandwich, or a group of laws that we consider in these sessions look like a sandwich. You remember earlier when we talked about housing loans being split from September, that we were on the agenda and the Excise Act and all kinds of other taxes, so we made it a little bit of an excuse to start sharing apartments. Here, now, before this point of the agenda, we had a law on value added tax, and when it is certain, quite certain, that, when the application of this law begins, although we are not entirely sure that it will not be possible within that time limit provided for by law, inflation will occur, that it will be even harder to live, that it will die of economic activity. We are now trying with these laws to tell the citizens of Serbia that this law will create a much better and more favourable environment for innovation, foreign investment and capital flow. It's simply impossible to achieve such a law, because it's necessary to create an environment for economic production, and then regulate it with such strict laws as this. I would say that it is strict, regardless of what the minister said in his explanation, that there is a minimum rate in the environment, which is probably conditioned by those who want to invest in the future, that is, to buy our businesses with good potentials. A question has often been heard in the previous days by a former minister – as long as it arrived with the sale of the company, i.e. with privatisation. Of course, no one could answer that successfully, that privatisation was almost completed in the previous term, because everything that was right, everything that was going on and where the citizens of Serbia could achieve their law and the constitution provided for the right to work, ceased to exist, stopped working. There is almost nothing more serious to sell than public enterprises, such as Serbia, water and the like. When it comes to this law, Article 3 and in relation to Article 7 it is said that the burden of expenditure should not be recognised by the gifts and contributions given to political organisations. I think it should be said here – except in accordance with the Law on the financing of political parties, because it is certain that business organisations, i.e. enterprises, can participate in the financing of political parties, in a work allowed by the Law on the financing of political parties. Then, interest due to unfavorably paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes; our business entities are increasingly not in a position to settle their obligations in a timely manner; of course they will and will, but such conditions are at the time of submission and in practice that it is impossible for them to settle their obligations in a timely manner and when they come into a situation to settle; I think they should recognise it as an expense. Then, fines and penalty notes should also be recognised in these expenditures that businesses have. In Article 10, the finance minister is re-established large rights, that he will prescribe etc. It is said that the funds of Article 2 of this Act are classified into five groups with the following depreciation rates, and at the end of the article, it is said that the finance minister will be closer to regulating how to sort fixed assets by groups and how to determine depreciation. Large and discretionary finance ministers' rights are restored, as was the case in the previous law, where 16 times he had the right to prescribe special conditions for the application of the law. This law provides for a very high penalty in the event of a violation, i.e. a failure to comply with this law. I think that the economic operators in Serbia are no longer able and in the situation that so the dragon and large penalties pay, and they objectively come into such a situation, because the economic activity in the previous three and a half years, or four years, has died well and it is difficult to restore it, is difficult to establish. It seems to me that there are no solutions until the Serbian radicals come to power, until we start with our own resources to restore importance, strength and get out of there, not counting on some large assets on the side, which often cost us very expensive, and usually something conditioned. In his reasoning of this law, the minister said that straw capital should be put into office. It wouldn't be bad, it would be good, but I have to remind the minister that he has no capital in straws with Serbian citizens recently. He's on some exotic islands, as your folks like to say, he doesn't exist in straws anymore. Now he barely has it in his wallets so they can buy basic food for the population's diet. One more thing I have to ask you, in the afternoon part of this session I was talking about a difficult, catastrophic situation from the elementary disasters in the Municipality of Love. Representatives of the local self-government were with the board of elementary disasters at the republican level, some small funds were provided there, they did not make a firm promise that the problem could be solved in a human way. Just to tell you that two years ago, the floods also happened to Love and just got a little bit better from it, what happened now. Once again, it is a small municipality on the edge of our Serbia. Please find additional opportunities to help the population there, which with 2,500 families has concrete requirements for compensation and damage, help to overcome and overcome a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5395	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic, and let the MP Milica Gavrilovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5396	I'm expressing regret, Mr. President, that the Minister of Finance came out, and I had a lot to say to him. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law reduces the tax rate from 14% to 10%, which is fine. It also provides for the elimination of taxes on paid dividends, which is also written on paper – acceptable and positive. However, there is something else in practice. What's the situation with the economy? Do our factories work? Do they make revenue? What companies do they still do? For these three and a half years, the government of DOS has accelerated the process of destroying the economy. What's worth selling at low, low prices. Three cementers, the tobacco industry Nis, the tobacco industry Vranje, with large commissions, Nisal in Nis, what I know, Frad in Alexinac, who, along with the lager of finished products, repromaterials and funds on the jury account, had about six million euros, sold everything for 800 thousand euros to a man who, on 5 October, after the DOS summit decision, entered the Federal Customs Administration. The largest number of companies can't cover material costs, pay the cost to the state, not to mention paying workers' wages, not looking at the end of the rest of the incomes, profits, dividends in the balance sheet of success. As a result, the bill proposal, as well as the Minister of Finance's opening statement as the representative of the proposal, Mladjan Dinkic, on the abolition of the tax on paid dividends, an empty story, for a simple and single reason – will not come about the achievement of dividends, profiting them, and not even their payment. When there's no payoff on dividends, there's no tax. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in the opening statement, today on this bill, boasted that the tax on profit of the company from 14%, and this is exactly better than many countries in Europe where the tax rate is higher than with us. But when it came to the bill on good businesses, he forgot to say or not want to – by introducing a value added tax of 8% Serbia is one of the countries with the highest tax rate for food, so there are countries developed Europe – Belgium with 6%, France with 5.5%, the Netherlands 6%, Italy 4%, Germany 7%, Switzerland 2%, etc. But it was deliberately excitated by the minister, he avoided saying that the European Union countries have a lower rate of tax on these life supplies than we do in Serbia under this bill. In the draft law, membership chambers, alliances and associations of 0.1% of total income in the tax balance represent expenditure and are untaxable. We in the SRS believe that the unwarranted and introduction of membership fees to chambers, alliances and associations, as well as the tax exemption at any rate, in this case of 0.1 total income. This is because various alliances, associations and especially chambers are unnecessary and represent quasi-organisations, only burden the state and the businessmen. By the way, such as the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and its President Veselinovic, they deal with various illicit and monopolist affairs, which is against the law. This bill, i.e. the basic law, provides for the existence of an untaxable part of 3% of total income on behalf of the national team. As an SRS MP, I can't accept that, because I think this is the only country that's been damaged. Rarely, an authorized person in any company, especially in public enterprises, does not come into a situation without misusing this type. The high costs of the team, and the unwarranted ones, are made by many officials in the public enterprises of local self-government, including in the municipal authorities themselves, as is the case in SO Alexinac, where I come from. Or, in the case of a large amount of funds spent, about 471,000 dinars for a team in the Public Communal Company "Rujevica" in Aleksinac, by the director, that is for 2002, where the government is exercised by DS, DSS and SPO. Of course, the director has been removed because of many abuses and protests by workers of the company, but has been appointed as adviser to the new forced manager. For all of this, I believe that the additional pressure, so as not to result in the high costs of the team, means the costs and abuses of that kind, is a complete abolition of the recognition of the right not to tax the costs of the team. This, on the one hand, would reduce the costs of the team, and, on the other hand, the tax share of revenue, which would mean budgeting and benefiting the state. A description of individual claims under certain conditions is also recognised on the burden of expenditure. One of the conditions is, under the bill, that the taxpayer provides evidence of failure to collect these claims by court. This provision can be very problematic, for the simple reason that the court proceedings can take very long, and for several years, and the tax balance and the final account is made in one year, so it is impossible for the taxpayer to meet this requirement as well. Finally, the bill recognises the right of the finance minister to regulate the way in which permanent assets are sorted by groups, five of them under the proposal of this law, as well as the way in which depreciation is determined. In principle, this would not be controversial, however, in this case there is complete mistrust of SRS MPs, of course my mistrust, and 350,000 SRS members in the current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. There are so many reasons why I say this. I intended to state all these reasons, given that I have arguments and facts, provided that the finance minister, as a representative of the proposal - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is present now at the Assembly's session, but he's out and I'm not going to point out. I'll probably do it some other time, considering this bill in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5397	The People's MP Milica Gavrilovic has the word, so let the Messenger of the People of Rade be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5398	Respected Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the Company Tax Act was necessary to propose an urgent procedure in order to comply with the new Accounting Act, as well as with international accounting standards. It is also necessary to bring all our legislation in line with European Union legislation. That is why this government, the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, is doing this intensively and proposes a large number of legislative proposals, just so that, at least when it comes to legislative activity, the first condition, which is to facilitate our country's entry into the European Union. When I explain this law, I'll only stick to a few key points. First, I think the most important point of this law is to reduce the tax rate from 14%, making Serbia the most competitive country in all of Europe. As early as April 2001, former Finance Minister Djelic proposed the company's profit tax law and then predicted that the tax rate would be around 20%. Even under such circumstances and under such conditions, our country was one of the most competitive countries, except Hungary, which had the lowest tax rate then in Europe. Later, the tax rate fell to 14%, making our country even more competitive. As this has affected the investment of foreign companies in our country, the results of this government show best, the results of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It also allowed the first greenfield investment (Ball Packing Europe) in Zemun Polje, which is worth around 75m euros, through its activities and the creation of a safe legal environment. For our citizens who, I believe, have not had the opportunity to get familiar with the meaning of greenfield investments before this government, since no government has provided any greenfield investment before this government, I explain that it is an investment that involves building a factory from the very foundation of money from foreign investors, in which domestic labour is employed, produced exports abroad and thus there is a reduction in the external trade deficit. This is one of the key reasons why Greenfield investment and foreign investment in our country are more than important. Another important point of this law is the abolition of the dividend tax on domestic legal persons. The international agreement stipulates that the tax exemption is only for non-residents. This bill also makes it easier for domestics. What does that mean? This implies that the part of the money paid by domestic legal persons to the state in the form of taxes now has the possibility of reinvesting that money and thus directly affecting the employment of a new workforce, and thus potentially reducing the unemployment rate itself. Also, this bill provides for the introduction of capital gains tax to non-resident legal entities, which directly destimulates them to invest in speculative activities, such as, in particular, the stock market, and stimulates them to invest in real investment. As it seems now, I will best show for the examples of Hemofarma action and the action of the Apathian brewery, where there was a huge increase in stock prices during a very short period, even in the range of 1:9, and that foreign legal persons had absolutely no obligation to pay taxes to the state itself and in this way the state did not collect any of these transactions. In particular, as regards the Hemopharma action, they increased from the end of 2002 to the beginning of 2004 from 450 dinars to 3,700 dinars, and we have an even more drastic example when it comes to the actions of the Apatian brewery, where, in particular, in just one day, the price of the stock changed from 1,350 dinars to 12,000 dinars. This is exactly the kind of bill that we come into a situation where foreign legal entities pay capital gains taxes and, of course, the state is going to collect income. What is necessary to point out is that the proposed measure to reduce tax rates from 14% implies a certain impact on the reduction of budget revenues. That's right. The question is, what is this percentage and whether this percentage will have such a drastic impact on the country's further economic activity at all. Budget revenues are reduced by 900,000 dinars or 13,000,000 euros, which, when translated into a percentage language, is 0.3% of total budget revenues, and on the other hand, we have huge positive effects of directly stimulating investments in certain productive activities in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5399	The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milko the Stimac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5400	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 77(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, "The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for opinion or voting in the National Assembly." Today, something has happened in this National Assembly that is inappropriate and contrary to this member of the Constitution. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, after my presentation, turned to our MPs, to me, insulted me and threatened me. He said to remember everything I said and put my finger on it. The president of the assembly didn't react. Neither did colleagues from the parliamentary majority, who heard and saw it all. Mr. President, I'm asking you now-- do you guarantee me that I can use the guaranteed rights for this pay phone? Can I speak, express my opinions and views of the SRS?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5401	Please, Mrs. Radeta, of course, as in all previous cases, when I was in this room getting information about every kind of threat, I intervened, Mr. Sarovic asked one question last time, and asked for information to intervene. Yes, you have my personal guarantee. Of course, for everything that is according to law, and by law is a People's MP, for everything he says about a pay phone, protected, he has full immunity. Of course you have a guarantee, and I'll make one symbolic gesture, I'll give you time to speak from the beginning. I thank you and go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5402	Thank you. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, ladies and gentlemen, nothing epochal is achieved by the adoption of this law. You've been struggling with this law since 2001, when you adopted the first text, so you changed it in 2002, then in 2003, and here it is in 2004. It seems it's time for someone to take a serious seat and make a new text of this law, so that MPs actually start doing what their job is, and they pass laws, not to change existing legal texts at all times as it suits individual ministers. In the morning section, when he spoke about this law, Mladjan Dinkic was full of praises, but the essence of these changes is that the budget is being filled, so that, Mladjan Dinkic said, those who do not earn can be paid out of the budget. He said that yesterday, and I asked him yesterday, and today he's not here, and I'm really interested -- who's getting paid some money out of the budget without someone making that money. Does Mladjan Dinkic think that educational workers, health workers, judges, state administration, the judiciary does not earn that money from the budget. We in the SRS think they make a lot more money than they get from the budget, and that should be a theme for the thinking of Mladjan Dinkic, at least while at the post of finance minister. You boast here by reducing the tax rate. The fact is to reduce the tax rate, but you should say what's the real truth -- who's most looking forward to reducing these tax rates. They are of the short companies and Dinkic's godmothers, Hamovic, Lazarevic and similar, and of course Dinkic's banking lobby. He works neatly for them and through the parliamentary majority in this assembly is passing laws that are in the interest of the mafia-banking lobby that is harassing Serbia. (Glass-breathing and burning) It burns and burns, unfortunately, but it won't be long, be safe. In Article 3 of this Act, you provided that the burden of expenditure is not recognised, among other things, interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes and fines. We of the SRS have suggested to delete this because the tax administration is still counting green interest and no one is talking about it, and the late tax debt this government introduces a dragon's criminal policy, on the reported and untimely settled tax obligations. We think that this is wrong and that it would be good to accept the amendment of the SRS, as well as other amendments, which we have tried extremely well on purpose to distract and regulate this law, to really pass a law in this House that will benefit the citizens of Serbia once again. In Article 8. We also predicted certain changes to the bill. The government's proposal states that expenditure on health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes is recognised as expenditure up to a maximum of 3.5% of total income. We think it is necessary to increase this amount from 3.5% to 5% because the state needs and must stimulate donations for health, education, science, religious and similar activities. We also suggested that expenditure on cultural investment be recognised as expenditure, the government's proposal stands at 1.5%, of the total income, and we from the Serbian Radical Party think it should be 3%. In the last position of this member, it is said that closer to regulations on what is considered to be investment in the field of culture is the minister responsible for cultural affairs, according to the Minister of Finance and Economy. When we talked about the previous law, we also stated the principle of the SRS that it was really high time for the Serbian government's powers not to be touched. You transfer these powers to some agencies and directorates or you give too wide authority to resolution ministers. This, according to the SRS, should not remain in this bill and I believe that when we talk about amendments, you will consider and accept our proposal as extremely reasonable. In Article 10. The draft law in point 3 of point 1 of the statement of expenditure shall be recognised, on the burden of expenditure, to write down the value of individual claims, provided that the taxpayer provides evidence of the failure to collect those claims by court. We in the SRS think that this is a completely unnecessary, even pointless provision, because you know that court fees are too high, that court proceedings take too long, that it would not be a good thing to tie this up for these court proceedings. Especially since last night we learned in the means of information that indeed in the judiciary, drastic things started to happen again; that the High Council of Justice returned Goran Kljajevic, a well-known and recognized criminal in the area of justice; they returned him to the Trade Court, for the President of the Trade Court. Well, if we're going to enforce laws with such courts, hard on us, hard on Serbia, and we don't need laws. In article 47, you're talking about criminal policy. These are really drastic amounts, which you predicted. A particular problem is that in all the laws in the financial area, you see what has already been regulated by the criminal policy of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and you once again predict that it is being punished under these special laws. No matter how necessary, and indeed it is that the laws are respected, and it is necessary for the laws to have criminal provisions, but to punish this drastically, and especially to punish double for the same offence, we in the SRS think it is inadmissible and we really think that the government of Serbia and the National Assembly must take care of the economic and social status of citizens and the economy of Serbia. Because if we're going to take everything from them through all kinds of taxes, fines and taxes, then we really don't know who's going to stay to work in Serbia anymore. You've destroyed large businesses, and now you don't allow small, medium-sized enterprises and private entrepreneurs to function and work. Indeed, the real question is: What is the ultimate intention of this government and these congregational majority. We in the SRS think that your intentions are not good and that what you are doing and what you are predicting through these laws doesn't bring anything good to the citizens individually, or to the economy, and it's high time to call on your mind and start doing what the citizens have chosen you for, and of course the government begins to do what you must have voted for in the Assembly. In article 51, you say the government of the Republic of Serbia will arrange a way to determine and pay monthly profit tax fees for 2004 following the entry into force of this law. We also think this cannot be in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This should be regulated by law and, again, repeat our principled and principled position, abandon the agencies, refrain from over-expanding the government's powers, over-expanding the powers of ministers. Unfortunately, it's too much abuse of functions and we have to make as many laws as possible, with clear provisions, that cannot be interpreted too widely. Besides, you're yourselves witnessing what's happening to you in the government. We don't have to tell you anything from the opposition, we don't have to remind you of that. Just watch TV, read the paper, read and watch the shootings of your ministers, and see if they deserve the kind of authority you provide for them with this bill. We don't think they deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5403	The People's Messenger Milko Štimac has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. I am obliged, for what my attention is, to warn all MPs. Of course their immunity is guaranteed and, of course, is not responsible for a single word spoken for this speaker, but also, of course, Article 100 must be respected, both the first and the third position. Any MP who uses offensive expressions, which is explicitly prohibited by the position of Article 3 of Article 100, will be momentarily away from the pay phone. I speak to all MPs, and I think it's for the benefit of the entire assembly's dignity. Here you go, Mr. Squishy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5404	In fact, there was nothing offensive. I'm sorry, I'm almost late. I had to consult mob godmothers for the afternoon, but they were busy, harassing Serbia. I couldn't get to them. They're burning and burning. I thought then I was going to consult the Minister's best man, but I can see the Minister's best man isn't here either. Ma'am, are you the mob godmother? Let's get rid of more stories like this. Nor will your electoral body grow because of such stories, nor will ours be diminished. We're really wasting our time. We were cosmonauts, Martians, masters of the great lodge. What are we now? Mafia godmothers?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5405	Mr. Stimac, be nice, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5406	Whoever ever started to do business in Serbia will welcome not only this but a whole package of tax laws. So whoever ever rolled up their sleeves and set out to earn something fair can only welcome a reduction in the tax rate that this law provides, or a proposal for this law, from 14% to 10%. Since I mentioned in the morning presentation, that is, since some conceptual differences of ministers were mentioned in the government, I mentioned the Canz, the public works, so that our reasonings were not conceptually founded, that what we are doing is not conceptually based. It should draw attention to the fact that in the creation of economic policy, including through these economic laws, our parliamentary group, therefore ministers from our party in the government, are mostly held as the starting points of the concept of neoliberalism. Of course, we are a country where agriculture depends on about 45%, which indirectly, directly, gross social product. Applying one final concept of neoliberalism in such an environment, thus reducing all possible rates, all possible protection of customs, non-tariff, would put us in a great deal of trouble and endanger the very 45% of the social product. Something like that can afford a small country, like Estonia, which almost ten years ago joined the construction of the so-called so-called. Microstates reduce all rates, including taxes, on the one hand, to stimulate entrepreneurship and the rates that stand on the other side of the process, those of protection, customs, etc. Such a concept has been advocated for several years and in Montenegro. So, pure neoliberal concept, the concept of a microstate with minimum rates. But that's something we can't afford. This is about two small states, where there is no one strong prevailing branch of production. At our place, as I said, we have agriculture and they didn't want us to make it our parallel advantage. On the one hand, we have to protect her, and on the other hand, we have to encourage entrepreneurship in that branch. Also, what was once a parallel advantage to us, and what we lost because of sanctions, which is textiles, leather and shoes, we have to raise and restore those positions on the world market. So this concept of neoliberalism, which is the starting point, had to experience changes and move towards so-called. National liberalism or something almost accepted, and it's called the Irish model. We're starting from an existing economic structure. In it, we need to recognize what our carrying industries are in development and then such economic branches to stimulate, and to leave the rest to a neoliberalist concept, so to entrepreneurship, resourceful, capable, people who, as I said at the beginning, are not afraid to roll up their sleeves. Therefore, special attention should be paid to and welcome the reliefs that cover all economic activities from agriculture, then in the textile industry, in the leather and footwear industry. It's about working-intense branches that employ a large number of people, a large number of jobs open, and they represent something that's been found and we have to deal with. In addition, additional reliefs for job creation, with this rate of unemployment that has been found and which has especially grown during the previous year, it is simply something that has to be done. The deduction of 100% of the gross salary from the tax base is something that really needs to be accepted, to continue to support it. I would no longer abide by this law. Of course, our parliamentary group will vote for him. I would point out once again that we consider it a good, balanced and primarily integral part of the entire set of tax laws, which again fit into a series of tax moves that this government is taking, which should lead us to a stable, modern, strong and, above all, capable of Serbia as soon as possible. So these laws are meant for those who have an entrepreneurial spirit, who know how to exploit and who can then help us all out of the economic crisis together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5407	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of the people, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act, another, as we hear from colleagues, a law from a set of tax laws. We had sets of judicial laws, however, none of these sets, neither to us nor to the citizens of Serbia, have brought too much good. There has been a lot of talk here today about chaos in the Serbian economy, chaos that is increasing or not increasing, and some who have been introducing systems, order and law for a long time. There's been a lot of talk about godfathers, and I'm not going to talk about them this time, but the fact is that four years have passed since the DOS regime is in power. There's a lot of promise, but when you look at it realistically, when you see the current situation, we see that everything you talked about wasn't exactly what you said, that a lot of it was after a while just an empty letter on paper, that those changes that we were talking about were really just cosmetic changes. The impression that I can't get rid of, whenever it comes to encouraging economic development, about honey and milk that will flow, that it's the rule of the ruling majority that the law that's burning is more commendable. It's as if you're trying to convince yourself, as if you're trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that these solutions are great, that they're going to do them good, and as if you're fooling yourself that if you convince them, these solutions will really become good, that they will actually bring us a better one from the campaign to the campaign you're talking about. It is true that this law has given several reliefs to the fallen Serbian economy. One of the most important, says Minister Dinkic, which is the corporate profit tax rate reduced from 14% to 10%. When we think about this full set of tax laws, the previous law on the agenda was a law on value added tax and, as Mr. Minister told us, the Transport Tax Act has so far been the main one, to say, the Government of Serbia's budget asset, and it participated in this year's budget with 37%. So 37% of budget revenues came from sales taxes. A value added tax was introduced instead of a sales tax. The rate has been reduced to 18%, but the basis and procedure will be much wider, so the planned income recognised by Minister Dinkic will be 50% higher. It's a significant increase, and when we connect it to this law and the words we've heard, this 14 to 10% reduction will affect by reducing tax revenues by about 900 million dinars, or just 0.3%, then the question is whether the economy will really be as relieved as you say it will be. If you increase the revenues of 37% of the budget by 50%, these are billions and billions of dinars that you plan to extract from the Serbian economy in the coming period, in all stages of production, which will eventually be passed over to citizens and will inevitably reflect the decline in production and the fall in purchasing power. The question arises whether the increase in the largest tax revenues by 50% can be compensated by a reduction in the minimum tax revenues of the company's profit tax of only 0.3%. I will remind you that during the previous period, the profits shown by the companies, and the companies that express profits in Serbia are approximately so much that you can name them, did not make any point in the budget, and that is why I am convinced that this is precisely for advertising reasons, that the minister has assessed what might have the greatest effect on the public, that it would be nice to say even from 14% we are reducing the corporate tax to 10% and we will be the first in Europe. But the problem is, Mr. Minister, that we will continue to be among the last in Europe on the social product. Will this raise our production? He won't. Is he gonna fuck up the products? He won't. That is what is essential and what interests the citizens of Serbia. Let's cut the corporate tax: 0.6% of the budget will just cut. But then why didn't you cut the value added tax from 18% to 12%? If 12% of the value added tax, budget revenue would be 30% higher in that part. That's clear stuff. As far as the solutions themselves are concerned, there are many interesting ones. Article 3 says that the burden of expenditure is not recognised, so, under point 5, interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes, 6) fines and pences. It's not about someone trying in an unauthorized way to avoid tax. It's not about the illegal tax evac. This is about those companies that register their taxes neatly, but because they are currently unable to pay taxes late and are therefore obliged to pay interest. I guess it is clear that there are no people in Serbia today who do not pay taxes. They don't pay because they don't have to pay, but it's like it's not enough to be punished by high legal penalties. You under the bill of this law, and you further punish them in such a way that those funds, which will pay the state through penalties, are again taxed as if they were profit. That way they're actually going to pay these fines, pens and interest for another 10% more, because you're going to count it all as a win. Article 10 states that the expenditure burden is recognised to be the write-off of the value of certain claims, except for the claim of Article 7a. Point 2) of this Act, provided that, under point (3), the taxable person provides evidence of the failure to collect claims by court. I guess this could only be written by one who doesn't know how our judiciary works, and here's what we hear, the feather of the judicial DOS regime, Mr. Kljajevic, is back on duty, and it looks like he's one of the experts, that he's doing well. The fees for court proceedings are extremely high. The other problem is that, in addition to the large fees, court proceedings take an extremely long time. It takes years, two, three, four, five years, even simpler court proceedings. By the time a trustee gets a final court ruling that he can't be charged by some debtor, it means, while someone goes into bankruptcy, while all his assets are sold out and while someone officially gets the solution that his claim can be charged at 10% or 15% or not at all, because the company is bankrupt, it can go up to a few years. During that time, this claim will be completely invalidated. We also heard announcements for the next few months, the euro will reach 80 dinars. Tax bonds, i.e. companies, will be forced to pay even those claims that cannot pay the state profit tax, although it certainly is not, or will have to pay the fines before, and only then pay 10% as if it were a profit. What characterized the DOS regime and in previous laws, you continue in this as well. Article 47 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements states that in Article 112 paragraph 1 in the introductory sentence, between 2000 and 200,000 is replaced by the words of 100,000 and 600,000 dinars. When we see what it's going to look like in the law, there used to be 2,000 dinars, now it's 100,000 dinars, it's even 50 times bigger than the last time. It is completely unclear why some sentences have five times the rate of increase, and some 10, at about 50, and at about 20. If punishments increase, then it would be logical, not only in this law, that the percentage of the increase, but in you is not the percentage, but the number of increases, because it's always 10, 20, 50 times, it's not about an increase of 10 or 15%, it would be logical for that amount of increase to be the same, to be the same when it comes to the law on the curve, when it comes to the Company Tax Act. Now I'm going to list some of the reasons why someone will be punished from 100 to 600,000 dinars. For example, if it fails to pay the tax difference set out in the tax application and the monthly tax advances paid within the prescribed period. So someone who regularly reports the tax, who pays the advances, and then when the final bill comes, there remains some difference in the less paid tax, and if the entrepreneur, or the legal person, does not pay that amount in time, for which reasons it can be different, there may be a blockage, there may be some strike, because the strikes today are happening throughout Serbia, and it will neither be forced to pay a fine of 10,000 euros, and later on, it will pay another 10%, because the fine he paid will not be included in the deductions and he will pay another 1,000 euros for the fine. That's really some amazing stuff. Then, Article 15, expenditure on health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes, are recognised as expenditure up to 3.5% of total income. You talk about how to help sports, how to help science, how to help education, but this restriction remains. Item 7. "Membership and contributions to give to political organisations are not recognised as expenditure in the tax balance" is deleted. So, you didn't want to release the amounts given to religious organisations, humanitarian and sports organisations, but you're very happy to free the corporate tax on those amounts that companies give to political parties and we can assume what will happen. It will happen that in the next period, because we have heard that the applications of many candidates in the previous elections were not neat, I guess the companies and other companies that are still working in Serbia have made enough contributions and that was not legal. Now you are trying to, in addition to the Law on the financing of political parties, provide some additional funds for your parties. Everything here will be clean, nowhere will you see this, nothing will be connected to, but in order for a company to work, in order for any profession or activity to be exempt from the tax of extra value or possibly the introduction of fiscal cash registers, it will have to give a particular party a voluntary, of course, probably very large amount. It is particularly worrying that it has not occurred to you to limit in any way this amount that a particular firm can give to a political party without taxation. So the basic system is right that everything that is not forbidden is allowed. It is possible in this way that businesses completely avoid paying even these 10% tax on company profits. I'd ask Minister Dinkic not to make a phone call, he's really distracting me. What if a company decides to give a political party the full profit they make during a calendar year? That way, the company will have a full tax exemption. Is that what you wanted? On the other hand, expenditure on advertising, propaganda and representation are recognised as expenditure only up to 3% of total income. I suppose you know that in the 21st century, product sales depend most on advertising campaigns. It depends much more on advertising campaigns than even product quality. If you want to help that action you are formally implementing and those videos you are playing, again for the national money and money of this people – buy your own, help the Serbian economy, then you gentlemen help the Serbian economy by freeing domestic businesses from paying corporate tax for more than this 3%. Allow them to invest 10, 20 or 30% of their profits in advertising campaigns and in the future of the company. Given that Mr Markovic mentioned my name earlier on some previous incidents, and when I was arrested in this previous election campaign, he said that he stood up for this case, so I would now like to inform us about what was done on this matter, whether a criminal report was filed, whether someone was responsible for it, or whether it was normal for the ministers not to answer my parliamentary questions, because I have asked six parliamentary questions, I received an answer to only one and whether it was normal for the MPs to be arrested. We're getting worse here. Ministers threaten, MPs arrest, no one reacts. Let's hear the final answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5409	The word has a folk MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, she is no longer there, the word has a National MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Milutin Pesic be prepared. Since the question was asked, I will answer; as you know, I wanted to intervene and I asked, and you told me, that there was no need, neatly in front of the witnesses. But every time I ask specifically if there are needs and what I have to do, and I pray that we all address each other in the same way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5410	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Minister Dinkic, you did not receive this book "Three years of transforming Serbian public finances" from January 2001 to February 2004, by author Bozidar Djelic, your former friend, an expert who, along with you, came to power on October 5, 2000, because long before he publicly thanked each of us for giving this book the forgiveness of the pumpkin between the two of you. You are not in a situation right now, in a way that unlike me and those who own this, you can see that in part there is a Resavia, a copying school, with little changes, though, so today I can realize that you are prescribing the laws of Bozidar Djelic, as he has observed on several occasions here, ever since this new, non-cedial coalition, headed by Kostunica, and you are his finance minister. By forceful opportunity, by entering the group G17 plus-minus into power in this new power-building, if it can be called so, you are appointed, with your calling and knowledge, for the finance minister, and then slowly, one by one by one by one by one by the law of Djelic to prescribe. You have provided us with a proposal to amend and supplement the Company Tax Act, and those MPs who have received from that nocturnal coalition task of promoting today's corporate tax law, not only do they not understand what this law is and what it regulates, but with so much ignorance and with such flossules and parols going out all day for a pay phone, it's just amazing that we listen to them too, and I can imagine how poor Djelic, who has been trying to write that law, now in 2002, and who was published with all the other tax regulations in this book. So you and the expert team around you did not bother to change at least a line of words in certain members of the law, but you said unprofessionally and uncomplicatedly, for the sake of example, a member of the 2nd law, Djelic's existing law, on corporate income tax, which says "to determine taxable profits is recognised expenditure and amounts to the established balance of success in accordance with" – you see the major Dinkic changes, instead of the whole word – "International Accounting Standards", the term is "MRS". It's Dinkic's whole change in that member of the law. On the other hand, some MPs from the G17 and the DSS, who were already reporting for the word today, spoke of this law – which is only one mere harmonisation, and Djelic, as an exponent of the defeated DOS regime, was right, harmonising with international accounting standards, only as an incentive for investment – and as some MPs here today said unknowingly, in accordance with these European and international standards, a review of income and expenditure in the way it has been determined in all other countries. And here's the paper only because the corporate tax rate, you see the big miracle, from 14 down to 10%. This law, not only in the institutional and driving sense, as some here today have been stimulating, and as Dinkic said, just a moment, it is one "sympathic" sentence – the basis for economic development, low rates as one of the motivational factors – all of these are today his words. Not that it has nothing to do with the economy in Serbia, which is in a very difficult, devastating, catastrophic situation, but the fact that it is as finance minister and that the government is such, incompetent and without a standoff in the people, without voter support, which the last presidential elections have shown, is completely unprepared to deal with all these accumulated problems. In some ways, because of all of this, we have found that there is a copying school at work, that it is no incentive-stimulating law, that it is in fact harmonising with international accounting standards, then it is illusory and that within the framework of this law and within this topic it is spoken of what is most painful for the citizens of Serbia, for workers who are jobless, for those in tens of thousands of enterprises that are threatening bankruptcy, in those companies where they are waiting, but in vain, restructuring that you and Kostunica have announced in their exposé and previous government. Because only here can we realize that certain technical solutions, but more by altering the order of words and by erasing certain members, are actually this pompous law that's on the agenda today. So, this company profit tax law, which you're up against, and who the SRS was against when it was passed, to comply with those international accounting standards, is actually something we've already had at work. We found in the beginning that Article 2 is the same and that probably from animosity to Djelic, because of some uncleared accounts or only because the minister would come with the law in front of the MPs, let's accept that the rate has been reduced from 14% to 10%, but it won't change anything, because it's not the law that will encourage the economy, but let's kind of accept it, but all this other shows that even those previous solutions were better. That's why the MPs of the SRS through many members, you'll see through the discussion in detail... There may be a conversation here at work right now about the situation in the Mačvan County and what is going on there in economic terms between the vice-president of the assembly and the minister, but I will speak, MPs, colleagues of honor, to you and the citizens of Serbia. So, even the solutions Djelic himself made to explain when this law was passed, as regards Article 26, is better than Mladjan Dinkic's proposal to delete the member. Both Articles 26 and 27 align the criminal provisions in the law according to the proposed amendments of the relevant members and international accounting standards, which is not the case here and we have only a rational and reasonable explanation, which was spoken of by the honourable MP, Radical, Mr Veroljub Arsic. And that is that it is obvious that the intention of Mladjan Dinkic is to protect the banking lobby, because the presentation of income and expenditure is just being told by the article. 26th and 27th, as regards banking organizations, the existing law of Bozidar Djelic. For us, such a further policy is totally unacceptable, when it comes to tax evasion, that is, the way interest payments are made. On several occasions, we've potentiated it from this pay phone, since Dinkic is the finance minister, but he doesn't want to listen, or he'll have to do it with interest on all those damaged taxpayers to pay off one day. It is completely inapplicable and we have made an amendment to Article 3 of this proposed law, that interest payments, with an interest of 0.2% per day, were made in April 2001, which was deleted by amendments to SRS MPs through the first package of Djelic's tax laws. So then, in a whole package of tax laws, part of the law, that is, a member referring to a tight interest, was regulated in a different way and the government gave the answer. However, the long-forgotten finance minister and Deputy Prime Minister signed it on behalf of the government, accepting the Radical Amendment, that a tightening interest will be brought in line with the Escont rate of the National Bank, then Yugoslavia, and now Serbia, i.e. the growth of costs to a little bit. As MPs, and those people who deal with the economy, and those who know how much it is when you charge the principal a day of 0.2% interest, they see it absolutely unacceptable. That's a lot more than the law says. Let it come out for Mladjan Dinkic, let Prime Minister Kostunica himself appear and let them say – by what law do those who do not pay a timely tax charge of 0.2% a day? It's absolutely impossible to find a basis in any law, because the law has changed in that sense. In this way you do, or the authorities of the tax administration, something that is inappropriate, unauthorized. That's why we've made an amendment to Article 3 of this law. We have responded, and we will talk more about this in detail, that is, in the debate on amendments to the SRS MPs, let's say Article 47, or Article 112, all his views are absolutely unnecessary, as far as we are concerned, because the law, which Djelic also published in this book, regulates that the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Administration are carrying out the obligations set out in the current article of the 47th Law. All in all, when you look at what is done, when you look at the way the debate was conducted through yesterday's session and the lack of hearing with the current government to free farmers, i.e. agriculture, as a strategic one, both in this and in future conditions, Serbia's tax branch, non-creation of the right environment through an increase in production, through the arrival of direct foreign investments, without malversion, without the involvement of financial lobbys, non-creation of the possibility of public spending being reduced to the least possible extent possible, which, on the very case of Dinkic and his new "audia A8" we cannot see, is not the possibility that we have a real and development budget, because this is not the one with this kind of deficit. And the amendments to this law and its application will not affect the improvement in this sense and the better fill of the budget, and without, of course, not understanding of you who are in power that citizens really don't want you, because without applying and not voting this law, only through the projected budget, only through the fact that Dinkic is the minister, only through the fact that everything has accumulated in this government, you have been punished in the elections, which were held a month ago, in Serbia nothing better will be able to change. We will remain until the end of this week, perhaps next week, to discuss laws proposed by Minister Dinkic and the current government of the Republic of Serbia, but those laws have already failed the exam. So these are the laws of the defeated regime of Bozidar Djelic, the former minister, and now unsuspectingly prescribed, with the changed order of words, with abbreviations, just so the hairs don't come to terms. Not that it will not improve the situation in our country, it will make the citizens more and more difficult to live. Of course, we as representatives of a party who has always been with the people and who wants a real programme and real solutions to help the citizens, we do not want that, but it is inevitable that a wave of great protests and strikes will happen, which are already going to escalate in Serbia, and then you have to face the bitter truth for you that citizens will not, through the copying of the law, overrun from hollow to empty, throwing dust into the eyes of citizens, will not change anything in Serbia. It's that we are going to the extraordinary parliamentary elections, that people who really want to make laws according to the will of Serbian citizens and to enter into a serious process of creating institutional frameworks, that the situation in our economy is changing, of course, with the active participation of radicals in that future government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5411	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5412	I call for a violation of the 100th and dignity of the National Assembly. I have to make this right, so it doesn't go unsaid, so the citizens don't get the wrong impression. I've been arrested in an election campaign for glued posters with an inscription: defiance, freedom, Seselj. I was arrested despite having parliamentary immunity, at least that's what the Constitution and Rules of Procedure say about the work of the National Assembly. Also, I'm not under arrest, I'm under arrest with six other SRS activists, and we spent the whole night at a militia station, that is, in the Old Town SUP. When you offered your help, I refused to help, but not because I took care of it in another way and through someone else. I refused because I didn't want extra-institutional assistance, because if I, as a MP, have to worry about my freedom and my rights, what should ordinary citizens who don't have parliamentary immunity do? Besides, I already said, six other SRS activists have been arrested. What about them? You promised, when you came to power, that from now on we would have a legal state, that the courts would do their job, that the prosecution would do their job. All the daily newspapers have published information. That information couldn't have been kept secret either for the prosecution or for the courts. However, it is clear that the practice in Serbia today is that prosecutors sometimes react explicitly, that the next day, from one event or calls for criminal charges, that the Constitutional Court sometimes responds after a day or two, and that sometimes, when the most brutally threatened rights of Serbian citizens, as was the case by introducing an emergency, the Constitutional Court needs more than a year and a half to react. It wasn't my goal to protect myself through my mandate, or to hide behind your authority as president of the National Assembly. So I didn't want any extra-institutional help. I wanted the leverages of the state authorities to be put in motion and that once before, the state would show concern for every citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5413	It didn't have to be at the pay phone. You could've apologized to me in private. The president is an institution and of course we will go institutionally every time. The People's Messenger Milutin Pesic has the word, and let the Messenger Ivan Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5414	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's quest to regulate the state and make it legal, stable and economically attractive continues with the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act. By preparing this law, we will get additional quality, first of all, in the sphere of economic laws; they, in addition to being European, are very simple, and by function stimulating. The amendment and addition of the Company Tax Act will make this law, in addition to the Value Added Tax Act, the strongest link in the sphere of economic laws, especially if seen from the angle of investment investments, which means domestic and foreign capital in the long term. What brings us, in addition to harmonising with international accounting standards, a supplement of the Company profit tax law? First of all, the reduction in the tax rate on the company's profits from 14%, which makes it a reasonable assumption that there will be a higher investment, given that the tax rate of 10% is the lowest tax rate in our environment. Thus, it is realistic to expect that income growth from indirect tax will occur, as the number of taxpayers will increase as a result of increased foreign and domestic investments. As a qualitative newspaper, this law introduces a much simpler process of accounting for depreciation, by grouping basic assets into only five groups, with the application of a single rate, special for each group, contrary to the current system of depreciation for tax purposes, which is based on over a thousand classes of fixed assets and the same number of depreciation rates. Thus, the accounting procedure is significantly simplified. Another qualitative newspaper is that the taxed profits recognise expenditures, in line with internationally recognised standards. By enabling direct promotion of investments in certain productive activities, the Government shows its responsibility, not by ethically acting, but rather by pragmatically, given our resources and problems, and by taking care of rentability, especially in the international labour division. By amending and supplementing this law, it is also proposed to significantly increase the tax promotion of investment investments in certain manufacturing activities, which aims to launch economic activities in these activities. In addition, the government gives itself space to prescribe additional tax incentives to stimulate the development of certain activities. It should be pointed out that the application of this law will be i.e. The reduction in tax rates is 14% to 10% to reduce budget revenues in 2004 by 900 million dinars, which tells us above all that the government's priority is not to charge the budget at all costs, that the government is not involved in marketing, that it is not reviving the economy by television performances, but by proposing system laws that create conditions and ambience for more quality and profitable business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5415	The People's Messenger Ivan Radić has the word, and let Branka Bosnjak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5416	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what falls into the eyes at first sight when you look at this bill's proposal is a reduction in the tax rate from 14% to 10%. However, when this proposal is better analysed, we come to the conclusion that this is actually just a nominal reduction, i.e. that the application of this law will lead to an increased budget inflow. How? Well, we're all aware of the fact that in the previous period, taxpayers found a way to bypass the payment of tax liabilities. In one way or another, legally or not, some for reasons to survive on the market, some to get extraprofits, which we are not going to enter now, but given that the almost certain adoption of the law on value added tax and that we have already passed the Law on the purchase of fiscal cash registers, this area of manipulation will be much smaller and will be significantly harder for taxpayers to manipulate in that segment, which is certainly good, but the question is -- how much is our economy at this point able to withstand this tax rate? Regardless of the words of Mr. Minister, that 10% is the minimum tax rate in Europe, I believe that our economy is not the lowest, at the lowest branches in Europe, but far below that, and we will see its real effects after a few months of applying this law. What is evident in this law is that the proposer has made a lot of cosmetic changes, which nothing essentially brought about in this law. I'm only going to illustrate that on one case. Article 9 provides that items 6 and 9 are deleted from Article 15 of the basic text. Paragraph 6 reads: “Memberships and contributions to be given to political organisations are not recognised as expenditure in the tax balance.” Item 9: ‘If the propaganda is carried out by giving gifts for which it is not a documentary recipient, or whose recipient is a connected person within the meaning of Article 59 of this Act, those expenditures shall not be recognised in the tax balance’. In order to be said in Article 3 of this proposal, a new Article 7a is added after Article 7, which reads: “The burden of expenditure is not recognised: 3) gifts and contributions to political organisations; 4) gifts and other expenditures of propaganda which are not documented or the recipient is a connected person within the meaning of Article 59 of this Act.” So it's about the exact same attitudes. With one member, you deleted the views of the previous law, so that you could install those same attitudes into another. It's a cosmetic change that doesn't essentially bring anything, and this is about a change for a change, to say that there's something new you've introduced and that you've changed the previous law. Speaking of members of the 15th basic text of this law, I believe it was necessary to stimulate donations by increasing the percentage to be recognised as a cost of total income. In view of Article 1, expenditure on health, education, scientific, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes is thus recognised as expenditure up to 3.5% of total income. The SRS is the view that this percentage should be increased. We have proposed, by one amendment, that it be up to 5%, and that expenditure on investment in cultural areas is recognised as expenditure and increased from 1.5% of total income to 3%. It is necessary to stimulate donations for health, education, science and other areas, because the state cannot have any harm, and on the other hand, we will have satisfied businessmen, who, by giving these donations, will gain some tax relief, and we will help these organisations function as much as normal. In this article, the 15th thing that bothers Serbian radicals and what keeps repeating, from law to law, which comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this assembly, is -- giving great discretion to ministers, or government. In the last position, it is said -- that closer to regulations on what is considered to be an investment in the field of culture, brings the minister in charge of cultural affairs, according to the Minister of Finance and Economy. We believe that these views should be deleted from the law and that this should be prescribed by a special law, and you have reiterated that in Article 51 of the proposed law, where you said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates the way in which the monthly income tax fees for 2004 are determined and paid. The government can't do that. It is the work of a legislative body, so this assembly, which must prescribe it by a certain legal act. Furthermore, it is evident that this bill kept what is bad from the previous one. Not all of it, but a big part of it. And we can illustrate this to Article 38, this article refers to Article 64 of the basic text, which is amended and read as "the taxpayer, who during the year begins to carry out his duties, is obliged to file a tax application within 15 days etc." And now, what's particularly interesting, is that - in the tax returns under Article 1 of this article, the obligor gives an estimate of income, expenditure and profits for that year. I don't think it's realistic to expect the taxpayer to assess income, expenditure and profit at the beginning of the performance. It's just that it's impossible, it depends on a lot of factors, on a lot of circumstances that can affect it, and it would be the same as asking the organizers of some sports game to see how many viewers will be in the stands. It depends on a lot of other factors, depending on whether it's a day or a week, what the price of a ticket is, whether it's a nice time or a rainy day. So this is simply not possible to predict, and we Serbian radicals believe that this position of Article 2 38 is completely excessive and we suggest that it be deleted. As regards Article 3, which indicates that a new Article 7a is added after Article 7, which says that the burden of expenditure is not recognised, in point 5), interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes and 6) fines. We don't think this is correct with the taxpayers, because the interest rates are huge, not to say they're green. The late tax dues are dragons' fines, and you've raised them with this law. It is extremely incorrect for the taxpayer to be punished in this way for the registered and untimely settled taxpayers, because I really don't see a reason for the taxpayer to be deliberately late for paying his obligations if he knows that you can and how hard you hit him in the pocket by this law. Speaking of which, when you hit the taxpayers' pocket, you predicted a 50-fold increase in fines by a member of 47. So, out of that minimum sentence of 2,000, you've raised to 100,000 dinars, not to mention that criminal policy is already regulated by the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and we think it's completely too much punishment. I am fully aware of the fact that the minister will go out for this speaker and say that there are motives for adopting this law in one of the European Union directives or that it is in line with international accounting standards. But, gentlemen, we will enter the European Union at best in 10 to 15 years. In the meantime, we must take care of the interests of the state, of the interests of the economy, which is not at low levels, but below all levels. I'd like to put it in perspective that our economy is at the stage of clinical death, that she needs resuscitation at this point, and that these legal projects are certainly not possible. We need to start the economy, start domestic production, secure the placement of domestic products on our and foreign markets, employ millions of unemployed, reduce the number of socially endangered until we reach the day we enter the European Union. And as long as we don't do what I just said, we won't enter the European Union, no matter how hard we try to rewrite their legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5417	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5418	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, surely the greatest pleasure from this pay phone is to defend and analyse a law that represents one of the pre-election promises of the G17 Plus party. Before I move on to an analysis of this law and what I would like to say about it, I would like to say something about my dear colleagues to the predecessors. I am pleased to have recognized, in all the previous statements, the opinion of fellow Members of Parliament that this law is good and I see that practically none of the previous speakers made any significant remarks to this law. But I recognize the speakers before me two categories of objections. One of those MPs who go out for a pay phone says they will not vote for this bill, but the remarks they make on the members of this law are highly cosmetic, uncivil and practically using this pay phone for some kind of political performance. I often hear that they do not actually analyse the law but rather talk about the advantages of the law and how it will affect the laws of the economy, talk about how this law will affect, how it regulates the issue of party financing or something extremely marginal, which is totally irrelevant in this law. Another group of MPs say they will vote in favour of this law, have no objections to any member of this law, but the speaker is used to analyse some newspaper inscriptions, practically gossip and express concern about the stability of the government. They have no objections to the law, but they say that in fact this law falls under laws that are not the priority of encouraging investment by foreign investors in our country. Of course, it is not disputed that these speakers are planning to support this law, but I think it is completely irrelevant that by going out for a pay phone they actually make some of their additional contribution to the instability of this government. I didn't recognize it was a new offer of cohabitation, but I hope they won't use the pay phone anymore to talk about The Hague when they talk about laws that are an incentive for the economy. Contrary to the first and other parties, G17 plus generally supports this law and knows exactly why. This law encourages development and employment in the following way: it lowers tax rates from 14% to 10%; it abolishes dividend tax for our citizens who have been 20% so far; it introduces an incentive for investment investments in fixed assets, so that 80% of the funds invested refuses the tax charged, with the possibility that this deduction will take place over the next 10 years. Also, it encourages employment, 100% of the gross salary of new employees, is a reduction in profit tax. It brings business into line with international accounting standards, introduces a degressive amortisation method instead of a linear one so far. It introduces a self-taxation system, making the taxpayer account for himself and pays the profit tax. This, among other things, reduces the costs of administration. Furthermore, it increases fines for offenders, making this law additionally effective. What is most important is that by adopting this law, we are going through compliance with the tax system of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5419	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. He's not here. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word. He's not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before the opening of the original search whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5420	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the afternoon part of my presentation, I pointed out that the DSS would support this bill. However, what I would like to look at in this presentation is the fact that one question has been raised from this speaker as to what the effects of the application of this law will be, and doubt is based on the fact that in this country there is a great political risk, great political instability and other reasons have been cited which indicate that for this law it is entirely whether it will be brought or not. The fact is, they point out, for all these reasons, we will not have an increased inflow of foreign investment. I can say that no doubt a major shift has been made in terms of the resolution of political stability and the elimination of political risks. Just to remind you that there was no more unstable government than the previous government. There was no greater corruption and there was no corruption of such proportions as it was in the previous period. There is no doubt that in the previous period the courts were under the authority of the executive, not to mention the prosecution. When we look at all the regulations that have been passed in this parliament's new assembly, we will see that it has largely approached the removal of all these problems that we have been faced with by foreign investors, which would now, once they are removed, speed up investment. So the fact that political instability will affect the reduced effect of applying this law is not correct. In most countries where we have various crises, governments would have a situation of total suspension of foreign investment. What's repeatedly highlighted here is that pessimism, in the sense that it doesn't matter whether we change these regulations or not. There is no help, the state is in poverty and misery, the economy has failed, as if a message is being sent to investors -- don't come here, it's sad and contagious here. Until we're settled, until we get on the sidelines, get out of here. So in a way, we make us succeed, those who want to bring new technology, bring new values, and who can send a new message by their own presence that all the successful ones come here and encourage us to be successful. It is therefore important to pass these laws, even because of the fact that a single investor has decided to invest in Serbia because of this law. And also, I want to point out that what's pointed out in this discussion, which, of course, was strange to me, is that all these regulations that have been passed so far have been considered completely pointless, it is considered that they have no effect whatsoever. It's said, it doesn't matter whether they were brought or not. The campaign here is mentioned, so I will now answer, of course, in the spirit of one advertising campaign and one successful company from my municipality, Nectar, it doesn't matter what these regulations are passed, it doesn't matter what the Value Added Tax Act is passed, it doesn't matter what this law is passed, it doesn't matter what the bankruptcy law is passed. Because all of these laws together create a system that will contribute in the coming period not only to speed up the success of the successful but also to enable them to strengthen those who are on track to strengthen. And to those who find it difficult, we have shown that we can do so by adopting social regulations and by preparing a new labour law, which will regulate the issue of employees. It doesn't matter what these laws are passed, we create an institutional framework to improve Serbia and create conditions for it to develop further.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5421	Do any of the presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5422	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I have submitted this amendment on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group and is referring to this particular story on the financing of political parties. That article, as proposed, provides that expenditure on membership fees and contributions to political parties is not recognised in the balance sheet. We have proposed a more precise formulation, which says - are not recognised in those amounts that are above the law prescribed. That's the point. If the law has prescribed certain amounts that each company can use on behalf of the financing of political parties, then we do not need to touch it, but if the economic operator decides to finance above that amount, it will first violate the Law on the financing of political parties, and the other will have adverse consequences, because it will be shown to him as a profit in the balance and will have to pay an additional 50% tax. I think it's logical and it needs to be accepted, regardless of what the Finance Committee now says is not to be accepted. I don't see what would bother you. On the contrary, I don't see what would fix the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5423	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5424	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment, which MP Zoran Krasic submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, required that the expenditure in Article 7a be recognised at point 5) of the interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes and in point 6) fines and penals. There have already been many stories about our economy, what situation our taxpayers are in, and what difficult conditions they are in. It has been mentioned several times that this criminal policy has been regulated in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, so I will now be based on Article 187. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration to show the MPs what it looks like when a tax administration punishes someone. In Article 187(4), the tax payer who submits a tax application at the expiry of the time limit prescribed by the tax code means, not if he does not submit it, but if he is late in the application, he will be fined for a fine of at least two to ten times the tax he was required under the tax law to determine in the tax application and pay, and at least at the amount of 2,000 dinars. If someone is late in filing a tax return, he risks at least being punished twice as much as it was overlooked by that tax return to pay the tax, up to 10 times. In order for the story to be complete, it is still regulated by Article 83, which is also costs that cannot be shown in the final account as a expenditure, so it says - the tax liability is increased by a special one-off tax on the mandatory payment of the tax of 5% of the amount of taxes, and the unpaid taxes, which are charged and credited to the principal debt on the day of the start of the mandatory payment procedure. Paragraph 2 states that the cost of forced collection falls on the debtor's burden. The amount of forced collection costs set out in Article 2 of this Act shall be prescribed by the Government on a proposal from the minister. If the taxable person pays the obligation before the start of the mandatory payment procedure, no single fee shall be released. So, even if he pays to avoid unpleasantness to get a mandatory fee, he will have to pay the costs of the procedure even though the procedure is not conducted in connection with forced payment. The costs of the infringement procedure determines the tax administration of 5% of the amount of fines imposed. That's the part between two and ten times now. If you didn't report 1,000 dinars in some tax return, you'll be fined 10,000 dinars and fined another 500 dinars, which means 50% of the amount you didn't report. When it comes to interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes, the tax administration still applies an interest policy of 0.2% per day for each day reported and unmistakable tax obligations. That interest rate is pretty high, it's a lot bigger than any interest a bank can make, and those interest rates are pretty high, to make it happen. And the taxpayer in the event of a subscription, which can even happen by mistake, has no right to tax credit, i.e. to refund that money which the tax inspector has ordered to pay or the taxpayer by mistake, lasts up to 45 days and has no right to any interest. I believe that this amendment and the proposing and the majority of the assembly should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5425	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic on behalf of the SRS group and asked for a new Article 7a. points 5) and 6) are deleted. Article 7a determines which revenue will not be recognised, i.e. what it will not recognise on the burden of expenditure when determining the basis for corporate tax. Point 5 says that the burden of expenditure will not be recognised due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes. Point 6 says that the burden of expenditure will not be recognised by fines and penalty. It's just amazing that the tax administration still accounts for green interest on late tax debts and that the government is running a dragon's criminal policy on registered and untimely settled tax obligations. I have to point out here that this is about reported and time-constant obligations. So it's not a case here, it's not about illegal tax evasion, or tax evasion. This is about taxpayers you promise a lot of money and many reliefs, who regularly report their profits, who in all cases file a tax return, so they don't give incorrect information, and they're late for the day when they pay taxes, they risk, by the new law, if by any chance I would say unfortunately, paying a 50-fold fine. So instead of 2,000 dinars, there will be a minimum penalty of 100,000 dinars, so someone, for example, who is three days late in paying corporate tax, will risk paying 500-600,000 dinars. And then the state tells him that the penalty he paid is actually a net profit and that he has to pay another 10% for that gain. Then the question is, what kind of reforms are you sending to foreign investors, whether this exists anywhere, whether you want to reduce the number of economic operators, to drive investors away with dragon penalties, or if you want to show that this government and this government want to have partnerships with foreign investors, that they want to develop their companies, because instead of paying 500-600,000 dinars, because in one day they're going to be late for paying an orderly tax, it would be much better to hire a few more new workers for that money. With 600,000 dinars today in Serbia, you can pay whatever it takes for two workers. Is it better to hire new workers, so that this punishment is recalculated in that way, or is it better to say, not gentlemen, that you are late for this or that reason, that you are punished by dragon punishment, is not enough punishment, but we will charge you another 10% on that dragon penalty for profit. The SRS thinks it shouldn't be like that. This amendment, if you accept it, can only benefit all economic operators and taxpayers. He will in no way violate the tax system, nor this law in general. All you have to do is look into the eyes of both us and the citizens and say, okay, we can accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5427	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is understandable that MPs belonging to the ruling coalition support the Serbian government, but let us, too, from the opposition that we can say that the Serbian government is bad, that the Serbian government is incompetent and that the Serbian government does not rule in the interests of Serbian citizens. The categorization of MPs by how they explain the amendments or how they speak in principle of government laws' proposals is simply not acceptable. There are no objections when MPs speak of government proposals, but the fact is that there are cosmetic changes in government laws to be delivered to MPs. It is incomprehensible that MPs who defend the character and work of Mladjan Dinkic allow themselves to resent us, MPs from the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5429	Please, according to Article 99(1), the subject is the amendment, you are talking about the amendment to Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5430	I'm just explaining the amendment to Article 3. So, we object to us from the SRS why we use the story of The Hague when we talk about some laws. No one has spoken of The Hague today, but you have no way of stopping us and stopping us from fighting at every place and at all times, Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. We'll do it always and in every place, whether it bothers you or not, it's your business. To Article 3. The amendment bill was submitted by our colleague Zoran Krasic and suggested that it be in new Article 7a. that the Government has proposed to delete points 5 and 6 in the first paragraph. These points say no interest on the burden of expenditure is recognised because of untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes and fines and penals. One of our MPs, or co-worker Natasa Jovanovic, asked Minister Dinkic to explain to the MPs on what basis income administrations charge those famous daily fines of 0.2% for applications and unpaid taxes. We didn't get that answer, and that's exactly what this amendment refers to. The income administration continues to charge green interest from Serbian citizens, the government is imposing dragon penalties, and it is not a question of why someone who has reported neatly did not pay or was late for a few days with taxes. The government should wonder if it's an unconscious citizen. Certainly not. If someone reported the tax, then he is not unconscious, and if he did not pay it, then it is because he did not have the means to pay it, and he did not have the means to pay it, and unfortunately there will be fewer and fewer people and businesses who will be able to pay contributions and taxes, given that the government is proposing daily, and the ruling majority is passing laws that will take black under the fingernails of the economy and citizens of Serbia. Then don't wonder why you don't pay for the obligations you prescribe. It's just not possible. You should know, and I suppose you know, but you're pretending you don't know how many Serbian citizens are unable to pay the municipal bill, are unable to pay the electricity, are unable to pay the water, and you're pretending to be blind and deaf, so you're giving a new increase in electricity, so you're introducing a tax on spent water. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have chosen this government, but if it is obvious that the government does not work in the interests of citizens, at least try, accept some of our amendments, believe that they are well-intentioned, that they are reasonable and that they are with the sole aim of correcting these laws, and that the laws are in the interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5431	Thank you. The answer, Minister Dinkic, and then we finish today's work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about reason, here's what this is all about, to explain, even three SRS MPs are discussing something that they say is reasonable. They want to include in the spending the pens and interest that someone is carrying because he unsettledly reconciles his obligations. What's a win? Total income minus total costs. Obviously, who should benefit from this, who must have a low obligation to tax: one who properly serves his obligations to the state. If you want to stimulate those who need to be punished by including in their expenses and interest, then I don't know if you know anything about the economy at all. Indeed, I must admit that it is not easy to listen to the discussions of the MPs of the SRS. It's an honor, gentlemen, to the MPs on the left, to your success, but I've never really heard anything like this before, to stimulate the one who needs to be punished, by paying less tax on profits because he's late in paying taxes. That's the kind of wisdom I haven't heard. Well done, once again, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5433	Thank you. This concludes today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. [[The session was suspended at 18.05 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5434	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT SEVEN OF THE SUNCH OF 14th of July 2004 (the session began at 13.55 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-14-0.u5435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 202 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 114 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milena Milosevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Goran Paunovic and Sava Urosevic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session at the break of the Sixth Extraordinary Session and in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt proposals for decisions from the agenda that have been established by 222 MPs from all MPs in the National Assembly, in their request for the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of 222 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposals for a decision to approve the detention of Milojki Zekovic and Mirjana Djurisic, judges of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, submitted by the Administrative Board. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE COURT OF THE PUBLICATION OF MILOJKI ZEKOVić AND MIRJANI ĐURISIC, THE JUDGET OF THE TRADE IN BELGRAD For this part of the agenda, you have received proposals on the approval of the detention of Milojka Zekovic and Mirjana Djurisic, judges of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, who were submitted by the Administrative Board. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since no parliamentary group has applied for a word, according to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the representative of Proposer Tomislav Nikolic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude a single search, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we have conducted a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on proposals for decisions in general. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby set Wednesday, July 14, 2004, as a day for voting. We'll approach the vote immediately at 14.01 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. First, I put forward a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milojki Zekovic, judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. For 168, they did not vote two out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Milojki Zekovic, judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. Secondly, I would like to put forward a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Mirjana Djurisic, judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. For 167, two of the 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Mirjana Djurisic, judge of the Trade Court in Belgrade. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We are continuing the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milena Milosevic, Dusan Prorokovic, Boško Ristic, Cedomir Petkovic, Milovan Markovic, Goran Knezevic, Bojan Pajtic, Goran Paunović and Sava Urosevic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – I would like to remind you that the MPs Aleksandar Vlahović and Nenad Bogdanović, by written means, have withdrawn all the amendments they have submitted to the bill. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
