ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1247	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about an amendment to the law, Article 51(2). The law on judicial fees, which looks small, but is very important for the work of the judicial authorities. This matter is not regulated in the right way that it should be regulated, so that it enters the court budget, which has been under discussion for years – on the establishment of a court budget, so that indeed the laws in the field of taxes and budgets are regulated. According to information I have on the new drafts of these basic laws, a court budget will be set up. The court's fees are scheduled to return 50 per cent of the funds provided to courts and prosecutors and, in a certain way, to be distributed. It will certainly be the best solution when the court budget is made. However, this transitional solution has been going on for ten years. Since 1995, up to today, the percentage participation of courts in the revenues it has generated has fallen. Today, with the 1992 changes, it's 50 percent. The provision itself provides that these funds can be used to improve the material position of courts, additions to judges and prosecutors. For the work of the judiciary, however, the work of other judicial employees is very important. The formulation now given by the Law does not allow them to improve material conditions. I have to say, there's no work, no courts, no prosecution without proper work, and no other employees in courts and prosecutors, not just prosecutors and judges. It's a very difficult situation. The wages haven't changed in a long time. People are already on the verge of a strike. In this situation, as the only possibility for these employees to improve something material position was found in this amendment – to allow the possibility of not only improving the position of judges and prosecutors but also other judicial employees. In this way, people are given the opportunity to stimulate, which will also have a return importance, because much better to collect taxes and the amount will be greater, the amount that remains, the 50 percent. In that sense, in order to avoid these unloved situations, which inevitably lead to a delay in the work of the courts, for example, if protests and strikes happen to other employees. My proposal is to adopt this and give these people, other judicial employees, the opportunity to improve their material position in a minimal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1248	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, they don't. ) Does the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr Branislav Ristivojevic, want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Milos Aligrudic, want a word? He doesn't want to. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, they don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. I give the word to the MP Milan Stevovic. Let the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly confounded with the minister that this is a short solution. But by some rule, it doesn't have to be a short-term solution. In practice, as my colleague said, it's clear that this funding has been extended over the last 10 years. I agree that there is a need to improve the material position, both the holders of judicial functions and all the employees of the judiciary. However, I cannot agree with the formulation that it was given in this bill, and I will also say why. The same level are the courts, but also the prosecutors, i.e. the prosecutions and courts. It's two different organs. Namely, the courts are working under the Law on Judges and the Law on Court Order, and the prosecutions have their own laws on the public prosecutor's office. For these reasons, the way these two state bodies are financed is quite different. Therefore, I cannot agree with this finding that, under the Law on Court Taxes, I stress, also collect revenue for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and all prosecutors who fall under their jurisdiction. I think these two things need to be separated, and it's celery to separate them. This is about not having a disagreement between two organs. For the sake of the public, I must say the fact that prosecutors are a party like any other party in court. As a rule, prosecutors should stand in front, along with the defendant, along with the defenders, proxies damaged or damaged, and by calls they enter the courtroom and continue to work further. This way, the court collects taxes and charges at the same time needs to be deployed to the public prosecutor's office. It could've been arranged in another way. I think we should take care of that here. First, if funds must be collected in this way, these funds should be separated. An example: 70 percent go to the budget, and 30 percent to the judiciary, and give it to the prosecutors. Like this, they'll have to share 50 percent of each other. Believe me, that means that at the same time, by this principle, the defendants of the defendants might be looking for some share in court fees, because the same party is in court, as is the prosecutor. So I can't accept a proposal like this. I wouldn't agree with this proposal. On the other hand, we need to take care of the judiciary, we need to take care of the Republic Prosecutor, the district attorneys, and the municipal prosecutors, but everyone who works there. It is a good idea to improve the position of people who are truly responsible and who work together in the bodies of the judiciary. Thank you. [[Applause true in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1250	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Verica Radeta, and then Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1251	Ladies and gentlemen, and this government, like the one before this, is proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia laws that are unconstitutional, contrary to basic system laws, inapplicable or simply not in the spirit of our judicial system. This is also the case with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. The law on court fees can only prescribe the amount of taxis, the way, the deadline and what court fees are paid for. The method of using funds collected from court fees was regulated by the Budget Law, the Law on Public Revenue and Expenses, the Law on the Budgetary System. What the government has tried to present to us as some significant changes to the Law on Judicial Taxes is just a mere courting of voters and, of course, we from the Serbian Radical Party have nothing against it. It is the legitimate right of every political party, but a party that is in power has no right and has no opportunity to promise something in advance. That's promised in the election campaign. The parties forming the government must work and must show what they know and what they intend to do for the people of Serbia. It is high time, gentlemen of the government, or the ruling majority in this assembly, that you start dealing with real life problems. You can't throw dust in people's eyes anymore. I now know, right after me, young Mr Ristivojevic will run out here, and here as Serbian government spokesman, he will say that in a civilized world, the government is left to work for 100 days everywhere, and then that, eventually, we are criticising it. We have nothing against it, but this government, gentlemen, is not working. Nowhere in a civilized world is there a possibility that the government can be left to work for 100 days, so that we can then criticize it. As regards this bill and the reasoning of this law, in the second point, you say: "The proposed amendment and addition of the Law on Judicial Taxes creates the possibility that funds from the taxed court fees should be used and to improve the difficult material position of court staff and staff in public prosecutors, in order to make the work of judicial authorities more efficient." This is pure demagogy. This is what you think they want to hear in court. Only one clear legal and technical objection: there are no staff in courts and public prosecutors. They're not restaurants, they're serious state institutions. There are judges, prosecutors and other employees, gentlemen. As for point 3 of the argument, you say, "The proposed solution allows for improving the payment of court fees." How do you plan to improve the payment of court fees in a way that only predicts how court fees will be collected? At the fourth point, you say, "For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget," but you should have said how much funds are expected of these taxis. I guess you should've planned some funds to be collected from court fees. I don't know if you know that, let's just say, in the First Municipal Court, there's a monthly collection between three and five million dinars for court fees. You're not talking about the level of court fees, and that should be the subject of this law. Court fees are too high. No matter what you plan to use them for, court fees are so high that many citizens who really need to turn to the court for solving property-legal problems, or to compensate for mental pain, immaterial damage, etc. They're not trying to solve their problems with the courts. Let's just say, if the object is a million dinar dispute, you have to pay 50,000 dinar tax. Who, gentlemen, can pay a 50,000-dollar court fee? Do you even know what state you live in?- I'm sorry. Do you know that the people of Serbia have nothing to eat? Unfortunately, the people of Serbia have nothing to eat! You gentlemen, instead of your government, which was formed 15 days ago -- took pictures here for all televisions, to be seen by the citizens of Serbia -- working to solve such life problems, you have retreated back to deep illegality. You obviously think you're still the government in the shadows. You're not gentlemen. You are a government that must come out of the wind to the citizens of Serbia and say what you can and what you will do for the citizens of Serbia. And lastly, about the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. You say, "It is proposed that the law be passed by emergency procedure, in order to provide for these purposes the financial resources in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which is being prepared. "For the Republic of Serbia's budget, it was not necessary to pass this law at all. Serbia's budget is a matter of this National Assembly and will be the kind of National Assembly will adopt. And one more sentence for the public, for the employees of courts and prosecutions. The Serbian Radical Party is also aware that the salaries of judges, prosecutors and all employees in courts and prosecutors are extremely small, that these salaries cannot be decent and normal to live, but, gentlemen, the government must also find solutions for the employees of the judiciary, as well as for all other employees, as well as for all those who strike across Serbia these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1252	Thank you. Replica - Mr. Prophetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1253	Mrs. Radeta, if I were to be the blackest demagogue possible, as you were during your presentation, I would now say that you are contesting the right of the Minister of Justice to make one of these interventions in the law more fair distribution of funds - more evenly, more justly, as you will, is a rich Serbian language, has a lot of adequate words, distribution from this fund, which is defined by the collection of court fees - not only to judges, but also to couriers, archivists, cleaners and all other technical staff. But I won't do it. I won't criticize you like that. As you can see, no one from the Democratic Party of Serbia has made a replica of the previous speaker from the Serbian Radical Party. The man has been completely justified in criticising the current legal solution in general. There are a lot of issues that can be respected in the next period when the law in general is being debated. Mrs. Radeta, if you want to criticize the law, then you're making it argument. Don't use this demagogy, as you've done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1254	He has the word, Mr Nikolic, as a representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1255	Let's all get out of demagogy today. It's the easiest thing for me to do. I never do. You'll have other problems with that. What is this law? This is one demagogue law. As far as I'm concerned, the minister comes from the judiciary. He was a judge. Minister, don't fall into a trap that all the ministers before you fell into. Don't tell the judge's salary, court employees, don't determine which type of car gets the municipal court, which personal computer gets. Don't lecture them in front of the TV cameras! Get them full independence. I will never believe that you are ready to give independence to a branch of the judiciary government, as long as, under the Budget Law, by Article 7 or 9, the minister of justice has the budget for the judiciary. As long as you have the means to collect for the judiciary, on various grounds, there is no independence of the judiciary. This is demagogy. We've got 50% of the charge. So far, we've been giving judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, and now we're going to give the staff in courts 50% of the fees paid. That doesn't look like anything. Let the Supreme Court have the legal budget. Let it be distributed to all courts and let it be known which of the employees in the court has and that it does not depend on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because neither you, gentlemen of the Ministers, ask the judges how much your salary will be. We, MPs, do not ask judges how much our salary will be, how much our co-chair will be - why are the employees of the Assembly not participating in the distribution of the pausals that have been made here for the MPs of the people!? Be honest and open, if this is a solution to reward these people, but now the judges are going to say -- now we have less, because by now 50% it's only been for judges, and now it's going to be 50% for employees. Now you're going to damage the judges. This is your positive discrimination. There's no positive discrimination. Someone's gonna get hurt. Find a measure to get out of the judiciary financing, to get out of the decision on how the judges are going to judge. What's your job? To equip the courts, until they get their court budget, and then the justice minister doesn't have to. We have the Supreme Court, we have the President of the Supreme Court. We should have the Constitutional Court, and we don't have it, and you know it very well. Because if we did, the President of the Constitutional Court wouldn't have told the President of the Assembly that he had to call the election for the president within 60 days, but would have told him he had to do it now. So there's no reason to be against this law, there's no reason to be in. Just so you know, there are no new incomes. The same bag now has more hands in it. That's what the authorities have been doing before the elections, but you think about whether the judges will be satisfied. Now the judges will receive less. The next month, the judges will receive less, prosecutors will receive less, the deputy public prosecutor will receive less, and employees will receive more than they have received so far. Did you achieve your goal? I don't think so. Whenever you cut someone's salary in Serbia, you didn't reach your goal. Believe me, there are not enough salaries in Serbia, except for those who are on foreign applications or for those who receive and do nothing. For people who work in Serbia, there is not enough pay. If you want, we'll vote for this bill, it doesn't mean anything to us. You've probably been counting the number of people you've been sending -- the ones you call staff or judges? Since both of them are dissatisfied, you seem to be content with those more, because you will have more votes in some elections, but that is a bad policy. It's not possible for the government to survive this policy. Find ways for those who have made a little more money, but don't take off their salaries and those who have very little. You're saying yourself that the judiciary is compromised. You know, for the last three years, there were people who didn't deserve it at all. You know that very well. We fought here against it while we could, but then we gave up, because it was unacceptable for us to have a man elected on the same day as the judge of the municipal court and the president of the municipal court. It was unacceptable for us to be elected judge of the district of the court and, on the same day, the same decision was chosen by the President of the District Court. It was all DOS, Mr. Minister, which is why our judiciary is at such low levels. I haven't seen a trial against any judge who's been proven to be a criminal, and it's been changed a lot, hundreds of judges have been replaced. All the presidents of municipal and county courts have been replaced. In the Supreme Court there was a set of judges. They were said to be the best lawyers Serbia has, and after three months, when they did not want to judge what the minister wanted, the hunt went on and against them -- they were expelled from the Supreme Court. Look, Mr. Minister, we don't have any problems with you that we've had with the previous minister. Your performance for this speaker is quite moderate and should be when the minister comes before the MPs. I welcome that. If you prove to me that you're not a vigilante, and you don't need to be a vigilante, because you could also have someone shine on you, if you prove to me that you're going to let the courts work in accordance with the law and that you're no longer interested in anything else -- you can put your memory at rest and as a "good" minister of justice. We worked here at the Serbian Parliament of the last government only two ministers, once, praised. I think they were both ladies. But we are not ashamed to commend the good minister because it does not depend on who wins the election. It only depends on whether the citizens are satisfied or not. I repeat, this law is no good to you! No, and you think carefully. I know that at the time of the court strikes, everyone went out to strike for small wages - and only the judges got the raise, and everyone else and all the court employees were unhappy. I know that they need help, that they need to raise their salaries because the previous government only paid judges. About a thousand marks, it was only meant for judges and I think it was done for judges, and the rest of the employees were dissatisfied. But don't make the judges unhappy right now - it's no good. When the judges are dissatisfied, the people will suffer as well as the doctors. You know that very well. Make the judges happy, and raise the pay level for the court employees, and you have our vote, you have our consent. Give us here a bill of law that will truly free the judiciary from the influence of the government and you will have our consent. Everything else is a demagogue that everyone in this room needs to lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1256	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1257	I'm really not going to deal with demagogy or politics. I'll only try to answer certain questions that are raised here, and I think it's appropriate. As for the salary of judges and prosecutors, they are not determined by these means. The Law on Salaries and, in particular, the Law on Judges, such as lex specialis, which provides for criteria for determining wages, provides the possibility of determining wages. So these funds are not used for the salaries of judges and prosecutors. So it's not about any demagogy. I told you correctly right at the beginning -- I want these new solutions to make it clear to be a "court budget" and to regulate it that way, without the possibility of influence on the side. That's my idea. As far as the other complaints concerning prosecutors are concerned, I would not agree that it is a party that is taking part in the proceedings. The prosecutor, in addition to appearing as a party to the proceedings, is also a state body. I can't predict a different change in the fact that, ever since this change was made in law, it's always been said "judgments and prosecutors". So, there'd have to be another change and the prosecutors throw themselves out of that "basic text." It wasn't my idea. If necessary, the whole text of the Law can be changed, or the text of this article. As for Mrs. Radette, she pointed out one thing that surprised me a little bit. He says it's some sort of system plan. Even at the time of the ruling of Mr. Radeta's party, the same solution was in force, even a slightly higher percentage was left to the courts. The Legislative Committee unanimously adopted a proposal to fully coincide with systemic solutions. I'm just here to say that this is what we're trying to get a legal basis for the material improvement of all employees. I didn't say anything about judges and prosecutors' salaries, because I can't even influence it with this law, but that provision says -- only material improvement for judges and prosecutors, and I would add "other employees". So, when something's already going to improve, it's going to cover all the structures of the employees. And the Law on Salaries and the Law on Judges regulates the question of their wages. Right away, I have already put forward a proposal for certain amendments to be made and the Law on Judges to be laid down, as a law that provides for criteria for determining the salaries of holders of these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1258	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic, is also the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is certainly not a good law and it's not going to change anything, but I feel a commitment, given that until about a month ago, I was working in the judiciary to say a few words about the proposed text of the law. First of all, the question is, what is going to change here, because these taxes we're talking about today have been charged to date and have been directed to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors, etc., but I can tell you that neither judges nor prosecutors have seen anything. The question is, who and how are they going to allocate the funds that will be collected on the basis of these taxes? The funds are not small and we have heard that only in the First Municipal Court are charged monthly from three or four, and in some months and up to seven million dinars, so the question is, will it be a minister, which part will go to court staff, which part will go to prosecutors, which part will go to who? There's been a lot of shouting in the previous period at the judge. Everyone was talking about a thousand-mark salary. It hurt everyone's eyes and the judges suffered a lot of negative criticism because of it. The truth is, I must say, the judges of the municipal courts have never received that salary of a thousand marks. The salary of the municipal court judge is about 27,000 dinars. So, not a day today, after two years of these changes, to the salary of a thousand marks they didn't come. Secondly, with a big pomp, they were shared with municipal courts, taken by a minister all over Serbia, we can say, I know specifically when he was coming to the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, when he was sharing a car, the revolt workers wouldn't come down to the big hall, to attend that farsi. Is that gonna happen again now? So this law, or intervention on the law, predicts that 50% of the fees charged are also distributed to court personnel. It is important to know that the court makes a lot of people besides the judges and that they are mostly trainees, professional associates, referents, writers, callers, administrations, scribes. The question arises - will they feel any improvement in the material position? I say he won't. I say they'll be fooled, and we'll see in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1260	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1261	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am surprised that, first in the report that existed in this proposal on amendments and amendments to the Law on Court Taxes, the chairman did not task the Finance Committee, which is also responsible for discussing this proposal, because under this article 51, which changes, "the fees charged are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget", so it was quite understandable that the Finance Committee also discussed it. Only in attitude 2, which is now changing, is it affected that 50% remains with the judges, the promoter wanted to share this, that 50% tax be shared with the judiciary employees. Having some experience, courts that charge most taxes are trade courts. Usually when a proposal to execute or enforce charges in a pre-trial that still doesn't lead to a lawsuit, the prosecutor has to pay a court fee. It often happens that the prosecutor does not have enough money at the time, submits a proposal for a solution to the execution and subsequently pays the court fee and has the appropriate documentation with the call for the number to which the case relates. The practice so far has been that the judge in question who is taking the case does not immediately see a receipt of the court fee paid, makes a solution to the mandatory payment of the court fee and makes it at the expense of the prosecutor, before he initiates any procedure that the prosecutor should exercise some of his or her rights. When the prosecutor shows up with the proper paperwork and shows that he paid the court fee on the case, the judge in question tells him - excuse me, sir, write a request for a refund of more fees and pay a new court fee at that request. I don't mind if part of the court tax money goes to the staff, but it's also accounting. What's accounting for in courts? Why do the judges in question who are handling a case do not have an accounting report which the prosecutor, the prosecutor, anyone in the court dispute has paid a fee, but is left to the judges to determine, according to their own criteria, without complete documentation and then we come up with such and similar situations. If you already want to improve and collect your court fees and the expeditiousness of your courts, why isn't the fee paid after the court dispute is over? I guess the judge would be interested in having a quality and speedy court dispute. This is how we are now in a situation where someone who gets a rightful solution to collect some of their claims has to pay a new fee on the enforcement and forced collection request. Then in a circle, so that a man who wants to exercise his right, grabs his head and gives up any lawsuits, because he simply will be exposed to increasing costs, and not to talk about having legal agents, or pronouncing, because many companies don't have lawyers who would represent them in court, but they take lawyers, they charge some of their commissions, some of their duties, and then in a circle. So the court, in principle, especially trade courts, lose their meaning. Participants in the country's economic life cannot or cannot exercise their rights before trade courts, so they will remain only for the bankruptcy of legal entities, provided that someone pays a fee for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1262	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? Here you go, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1263	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came to you first because of the findings that happened several times after this pay phone about the judge's material position. The material position of the judges is much more dignified than it was in 2000; the salary of 27,000 dinars is in a qualitative sense a shift, it is more dignified today to be a judge than it was three years ago in the Republic of Serbia and that is something we cannot dispute. On the other hand, it is true that the position of judicial employees is significantly worse than the judge. So, a lot worse and it created tensions in the judiciary. We do not agree that this is the best way to change, i.e. to improve the position of judicial employees, because the bill defines 50% of the fees charged to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, judicial staff and staff in public prosecutors. Therefore, staff is mentioned, but without any strict criteria, without any guarantee in which these funds will be distributed in relation to the staff in the courts and in the prosecutions. So, no guarantees are provided, and it seems to me that this law is primarily a marketing character and a solution that could wait for the budget to be adopted, or otherwise, much more strictly, much clearer, much clearer, with guarantees to define the need to improve the position of judicial employees. In this regard, we insist that the position of judges is much better, that it should improve the position of staff, but we do not see that this is a solution - and we do not see that the Council of the Republic of Serbia needs at the moment when the World Bank defines what criteria are, which are priorities for the Republic of Serbia to achieve several hundred million dollars, which is a donation, which is credit, when it has defined that it is necessary to pass a law on bankruptcy, energy law, the law on registration of businesses, when all these legal proposals already exist and when they are in line with both international organisations and the World Bank. It would be much more constructive if the Government of the Republic of Serbia had proposed these laws which are of vital interest to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which really qualitatively improve the material position of the vast majority of Serbian citizens, than to pass some laws, which in the marketing sense sound good, but essentially do not mean improving the position of employees, i.e. provide no guarantee that this material position will be better. In any case, any draft law which is qualitatively meant to improve the position of judicial employees we will support, and we will support the government's efforts to ensure that the material position of judges, deputy public prosecutors and prosecutors that the previous government has significantly improved and that today it is worthy of being a judge in the Republic of Serbia to continue such a policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1264	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 89? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1265	I'm not gonna hold you back, just to give a little explanation about this. The fact is, I'm sure he can get rid of it better. I said at first that it should be settled in front of the court budget, which must be foreseen by these basic system laws. This is a temporary solution. Here I hear them say - it could've worked it out better. This temporary solution takes ten years. Why hasn't it worked out better in ten years? That's my question. Another thing, about a young colleague who works in courts. Since I've been working, I know the exact same situation. Here only the basis is determined to get the opportunity to improve the situation; in this sense it changes, because the law did not give other employees the opportunity to get anything. Here we get the basis, and then the minister, as it is said, will not decide on it, but the government has to resolve it with its own conclusion. That's very good. Just because I had the following fact in mind. A large number of trainees and professional associates have retail minimum salaries, and we want to provide a better fit for better judges tomorrow. We're going to have a hard time getting good-quality young people to do this job for such small wages. One of the things was that. I think we should keep that in mind. In the end, this pay question, whether they're good or not. There's no dispute in paying judges and prosecutors not good. I tried to explain that we want to bridge one for me, as a minister who comes from the judiciary, an essential fact, and this is the following: about the Law of Salaries we get these salaries that are lower than by the Legal Judges, which clearly foresee criteria for determining the salaries of the holders of judicial functions. I took the first step, I said it, but it's like you didn't listen to me, that it gets even, that people get in line with the pay law, at least in that first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1266	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a motion search with details. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia. You have received a proposal for a decision established by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Milko Šimac, a member of the Finance Committee, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1267	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, just a few words about Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, whom we have proposed, has accepted the proposal as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. It is about economist and statistician of a broad spectrum of action, and what has defined us as proposings for him as a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council is that he was a member of the macro-economics. As an expert on their work, they will certainly complete the team of the National Bank of Serbia Council. You all got his biography. I'd take two or three moments out of his really rich professional biography. First, that he was a member of the International Statistical Institute, then an active participant in the preparation of economic policy and an appropriate programme of monetary reconstruction, economic stabilisation with the federal government. This was practically found in the area of macroeconomic accounts. He's an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. He co-operates regularly with the Economic Institute and the Institute of Economic Sciences in Belgrade. He's been engaged lately, first of all, in macroeconomic analysis. He is a member of two macroeconomic journals, monthly analysis and forecasts. He was chosen to call a scientific advisor. Finally, what especially recommends it is that he is a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank of Serbia's Technical Level Talks Team with IMF missions under the monitoring of the "strebaj" arrangement (stand-bu agreements). He also went to school on the side. We believe that at a high level he will perform the duties and duties of a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1268	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1269	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have no objection to Mr Kovacevic's biography. Mr Kovacevic could do all the jobs related to the economic, analytical, strategic, macroeconomic functions of this country, except for membership in the National Bank of Serbia Council. What is a principled problem, not only with Mr Kovacevic, but also with the proposal of the governor and members of the National Bank Council, is that the party bank is being made by the National Bank of Serbia. That's what's controversial. We could and can compare the previous assembly and the previous composition of the National Bank of Serbia and the Governor's Council, and these were all professional non-political figures. The National Bank, by its structure and character, should and must be a non-political organisation. No member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council is a non-political figure -- were all or other senior party officials who today make up most of the executive government of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Bank must be independent of the executive authority and that is what the problem is. The National Bank must be immune to the pressures of the executive government, it must be completely independent, completely independent and its legal definition, its position everywhere in the world is that it is such a bank. We are concerned by the fact that the Council has been established under the party criteria and the National Bank of Serbia Council will be established. That is why we cannot support this proposal personally, although I say, Mr Kovacevic, independently of that, in other situations and other functions, but in principle, there is a problem, because the National Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia Council is one of the very rare institutions where a party criterion, such as the inadmissible party criterion in the Supreme Court, is such an unacceptable party criterion in the National Bank of Serbia. This is why we will be explicitly and this is what is a very big problem, because we will now have representatives of all the parties in power in the National Bank, in the National Bank Council, we will have political motives in making decisions. The National Bank Council decides on licensing banks, decides on bank work permits, decides on the closure of banks, and when a policy is introduced into such an institution, then we face a major problem both as a National Assembly and as a society in general. That is why the Democratic Party's parliamentary club will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1270	Do any of the other representatives, please, in what capacity, excuse me? As chairman of the Finance Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1271	Dear MPs, when something goes wrong, it keeps going wrong. So, the moment a complete replacement and former governor and the current Council were carried out in an illegal manner, further compromises continue. The highlight of this compromise is the violation of a principle that, at least when it comes to the National Bank, I was convinced that it would finally cease to exist. We have a council here as boards of directors when we choose companies. So, by party principle, as are our committees that function in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very bad for the People's Bank and I totally understand. The moment G17 plus proposed to the governor of his prominent official, they were completely, normally, forced to accept that party arrangement further. We practically have now from all parties, I think, the current authorities, representatives of the Board of Governors, and I think that's bad. As a result, we'll see very soon. Simply, when you have a governor and you have a Board of Governors that are absolutely set up by party principles, the National Bank can't function well. So I don't have any dilemma, you'll see that very soon. After all, he also won the SPO now his representative, has not had it so far. I expected that at least the principle that has been said about boards of public enterprises would be respected, so at least the Radicals or the Democratic Party would be offered one seat in the Board of Governors, because, in my view, it would be logical if we respected the principle until the end. I ask you, see if any of the parties in the Board of Governors, I think there are two representatives on the party principle, and then give us or the radicals that we agree on. It doesn't matter, it's easy for us to agree on that, of course, you should applaud, because I've tried to show you the senselessness of what you're doing right now when it comes to the National Bank and let it serve you honor, just keep it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1272	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what it's like to see kids spill out of one strip and live after themselves, like you do! It's not our principle. We don't need a seat on the National Bank Governor's Council. We don't need an SRS. We're fighting against you setting up your members for the Board of Governors, for you to appoint your own member as governor of the National Bank. We are fighting to appoint your member president of the Constitutional Court, for the judges of the Constitutional Court, for the President of the Supreme Court, for the judges of the Supreme Court. It is our principle, so I representatives of the Democratic Party ask that, when they seek something for themselves, let them seek for their party. For radicals let no one seek anything, we will conquer everything in the elections, but we will not go to elections to win the People's Bank, to win the courts, but to conquer the majority in the National Assembly and form a government. It is clear that my predecessor was absolutely right when he warned you that you had created a party structure of the National Bank of Serbia. Now, when these mentors of yours come to you from abroad, when those who control you come, and you tell them from which party is a member of the Council; tell them which party the governor is from, and they will find themselves in wonder and ask you, what kind of society you are building here, whom you convince to build a democratic society where certain branches will be completely independent. We don't want to get involved in this discussion of yours, on behalf of the proposed candidate, in his biography, in his merits, in what he can do and what he can't do. We have already heard on the Committee of Auditors from the chairman of the Management Board that he does not interfere at all in the business of the company, although the company has hundreds of millions of euros. That's how it's gonna be for you at the National Bank. I know how it's going to work, but a little bit of you get involved, you who exercise power in Serbia, get involved in what's going on in the People's Bank, get involved, ask yourself, "When they propose one of you, ask yourselves, "What am I going to do there, I'm a member of the political party, I'm not going to get involved in this." We'll take out the cards when there's a vote, we won't take part in this at all. I call on all those who are truly in favour of a strict division in this Serbia, who really want democratic Serbia to draw cards when there is a vote on this new member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, and thus you will show that you were elected by the people, not that you were elected by political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1274	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I ask again if anyone who has not used his right under Article 89 has not applied to the lists of parliamentary groups. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, does MP Milko Šimac, a member of the Finance Committee, want a closing statement? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft decision. Since we have held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint today on 17 March 2004, as the Day of Vote on all items of the agenda of the Second Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I'm setting a break until 12.30.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1275	I suggest we determine the quorum. I ask Members to insert the cards into the MPs' quorum-determining units. I'm guessing we have a quorum to keep working. I am taking the opportunity to inform the National Assembly, members of the Committee on Education, that an emergency session is scheduled for today, on 17 March 2004, starting at 1400 hours, in the third floor room, as well as members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because I have given the order to schedule a session for tomorrow, Thursday, 18 March 2004, at 11.00 p.m., at the Bureau's Hall. Thank you. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill... You want to talk to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1276	Ladies and gentlemen, the messengers of the people say, "He is not present at the sitting." Then how can he speak? ) I report to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 221: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations etc." I want to inform you that a group of Cypriot terrorists and separatists, about five-six thousand of them, attacked Kosovo Mitrovica. 500-600 people have managed to cross, I'm sorry, I'm excited about all this, and there's been an armed conflict! There are 15 wounded people. I ask the Assembly to report on this event in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1277	Thank you to the MP. Of course the information will be requested. I see you're looking for a word, as president of the board? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1278	Mr. Kragovic, we've already reacted. A session, a joint session of the Security Committee and of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, will be held tomorrow. It remained that Mr Mircic, as chairman of the Security Committee, agreed with the interior minister and other competent authorities at which time the session would be held tomorrow. No problem at all, we're all shaken up, we're very shaken up and excited by this event. I hope tomorrow we find some way to respond adequately.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1279	Thank you. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of the Court (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. For 128, a total of 128 members of Parliament present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on Court Orders, in general. For 141, they did not vote four out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges (vote) Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Judges, in principle. For 142, five of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed a bill amending the Law on Judges, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Law on Judges, in general. For 144, they did not vote four out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Judges. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUBSIDENCE OF ORGANISED CRIME (vote) Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of the Electoral Authorities in countering organised crime, in principle. For 143, it did not vote 7, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, passed the bill on amendments to the law, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, in general. For 144, six out of 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, before joining the vote on proposals for decisions in general, I ask if you agree that all proposals of the parliamentary groups for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be made at the same time? I didn't finish my sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1280	You're kind to me, Mr. President, when I'm in the O.R. When I'm not, you say I ran away, I'm afraid, you make up some of our deals. He can't do that on his own. You shouldn't have put it in the National Assembly. Every motion for a decision is separate. We've done in accordance with Article 136 of the joint search, the original search. This is possible, but the vote is held for each Pedlog decision individually, because the decision is accordingly subject to the procedure for the adoption of the law. Never before in parliamentary practice has more laws been voted upon at once. A vote cannot be held at once for proposals of four or five decisions. Any proposal for a decision must be voted on in particular. This is not a unique list of committee members, who have proposed parliamentary groups, so that votes for the list proposed by the parliamentary groups. Each parliamentary group has proposed "its decision". Any decision by the parliamentary group must be voted on in particular. Believe me, I'm the chairman of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-17-0.u1281	Thank you for letting me know. I'm continuing my sentence where I left off. I ask you, are you agreeing that, at the same time, all the motions of the MPs for amendments to the Decisions on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are given at the same time, by a single vote, and that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 96, they did not vote three out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. As the National Assembly accepted this proposal, I put forward proposals for amendments to the Decisions on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia committee, which were submitted by parliamentary groups: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, G17 Plus, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legal-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. For 129, v. 89, abstention one, did not vote 7, of the 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted these proposals by majority. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (vote) After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I am voting on the motion for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 226, one abstention (and by mistake), two of the 229 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on judicial fees (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in principle. For 126, it did not vote 60 out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in general. For 127, against 19, 12 of the 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA (vote) After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. For 126, against 11, the two abstentions, did not vote four, out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Allow me to congratulate Mr. Miladin Kovacevic in his election as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council on your behalf and on my behalf. Since we've done a review of all the points of the agenda and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
