ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 185 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 149 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Meso Omerović, Išpanović Istvan, Gordana Comić, Anita Beretic, Milan Marković and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić; Rajko Baralic will be late. You were presented with records: The third session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 March 2004; and the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 26 March 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 March 2004. For 93, two abstentions, 78 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 March 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 March 2004. For 100, they did not vote 83, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 March 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 26 March 2004. For 99, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 87, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 26 March 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. As you have seen, as part 1 of the agenda, a draft law on the termination of the Law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was proposed, which was submitted by 82 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. With this in mind, I remind you that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision determining that the Law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not in agreement with the Constitution, and that, on the basis of Article 130. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the way and procedure of change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, ceases to apply on the day of the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Since that decision of the Constitutional Court was published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia on 26 March 2004, it ceased to apply on that day the Law on the way and procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so the basis for the National Assembly to consider item 1 of the proposed agenda: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 82 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. On the occasion of the 2nd item of the proposed agenda, I remind you that by letter of 29 March 2004, MP Tomislav Nikolic informed the National Assembly that 82 MPs of the SRS group were withdrawing the bill on the rights of members of families indicted in the detention of the International Criminal Tribunal, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2004. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure. A group of 195 MPs from Serbian Radical Party MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia proposed that, in an emergency procedure, the draft law on the rights of the indictee in the detention of the International Criminal Tribunal and members of his family, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 167 against nine, two abstentions, were not voted by 22, a total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of an emergency procedure proposal, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 167 against 17, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. A bill on the rights of the International Criminal Tribunal in custody and members of his family. Since the proposal to consider the draft law in the established agenda is accepted by emergency procedure, the committees responsible, or the Government, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports or opinions during the course of the session. Work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Rights of the accused in the custody of the International Criminal Tribunal and members of his family - you have received a bill submitted by 195 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Bojan Pajtic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Vladimir Homan, Milica Gavrilović, Petar Cvetkovic, Zoran Angelkovic, Nikola Novaković, Misa Petronijevic, together Zarko Obradović and Bojan Kekić and MP Brance Stojanovic. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the search will be given to you during the session. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate is in principle for MPs for five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour 3 minutes and 36 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party 44 minutes and 24 seconds, the parliamentary group G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction - New Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group 26 minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group have five minutes per article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good to open discussions with the UN tribunal and on the relation of Serbian citizens in The Hague tribunal. This is one of those, and it was our promise to the Serbian citizens in the election campaigns we had last year. This is one way for Serbia to show that it respects the basic standards, the basic rules, that it wants to provide assistance and protection to its citizens, no matter where they are. This is also a sign that Serbia has changed its stance towards The Hague tribunal and the people who are being held captive there. Perhaps part of the sobering of what was going on in Kosovo and Metohija last week, when the world was faced with what Serbia has been facing for the past 13 years intensively, with unsuspecting attacks on Serbs by others, and for the first time, Serbs had some kind of foreign defence and protection, insufficiently effective, at the end of the attack more effectively, and is raised with the right question that Serbs were defending whether anyone would find themselves in The Hague. Since the stance, adopted after 5 October 2000, that all people elected by the people in Serbia, and not from DOS, war criminals, non-democrats, fascists, are guilty of everything that is happening to us, are ready to pass the catharsis, so far so much has changed, but unfortunately many people have ended up in The Hague, mostly the DOS political rivals. Then when they were DOS political rivals, when the state immediately declared them war criminals, they began to fight their families. Then the state served to make the prosecutor a better charge, then the state served that all documents that had, tones, videos, orders, solutions, deliver to the prosecutor, and then the state served to ensure that whoever was charged was more insulated, as much as convicted already in Serbia itself, disgraced, branded, clothed, possibly without the means to defend and his family, preferably without the means to live. I look forward to a change in the mood amongst the MPs. MPs only perform what has been happening in Serbia for a long time. No one is guilty until convicted, and many will be convicted in The Hague even though they are not guilty at all. I don't want to protect any criminal, and especially no war criminal, and anyone who committed a war crime should be held accountable for it, but there is no command responsibility, there is no responsibility for those who have dealt with politics, there is no responsibility for a publicly spoken word anywhere in the world, for an idea, and especially no responsibility that would be treated as a war crime. We've referred two bill proposals, one to the federal level, or as it's now called, and one to the republican level. If we have transferred some of our duties to Serbia-Montenegro, and I specifically mean giving guarantees, we have passed legislation on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which we have not passed on to this so-called so-called. The state community of the fate of our citizens in The Hague and the fate of their family members. This is one social law. We want to prevent this law from condemning anyone who should defend himself, only to be convicted because he was not given the opportunity to defend himself. It's a principle that we should represent for every man from the globe. Anyone accused must have the opportunity and the right to defend himself. To defend himself, he must prepare his own defense. To prepare his own defense, he must be free. You know how The Hague treats Serbs. Order the Serbian government to arrest them, to place them there with bags on their heads, preferably not to know who they are or what they are, and then put them there and the prosecutor begins to collect evidence. The Serbian government is being put into operation, providing evidence to the prosecutor, and a Serbian citizen who has been indicted in a cell twice 3 is waiting for the prosecutor to collect enough evidence to bring him to the judge. And Europe guarantees a man freedom, which can be extremely denied for a very short time until the judge is brought to justice. The president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, has been in custody for more than a year and has not been brought to justice. There's no way he can communicate with his family, with his team who's preparing for his defense here, no one in the world can communicate with him, no one in any way, no one can go around him, and the prosecutor collects evidence that he can go out with before an honest judge. With this law, we offer that, in some ways, we provide materially for families of those in The Hague and that in some ways, even in part, we give them the right to defend, unless this material-financial right is secured within the tribunal in The Hague. So there is no duplication if The Hague provides defence, defence opportunities, financing for Serbia's defence citizen in custody there. That provision of this law does not apply. It's only applicable in case the defendant doesn't have a chance to engage in defense, to collect evidence. You know how The Hague tribunal collects evidence in Serbia. It's all at his disposal. In the past year, we've been following their tracks. Where we show up to collect evidence of Vojislav Seselj's innocence, we find out that for three years the Hague investigators have been gathering evidence that he's guilty. Serbia knows nothing about it. Individuals in the Serbian government, those on-call Europeans, those cleansed, who lost the elections so smoothly last year. This is moral law. There's a conscience and morale here for all of us. Can we rise above the political rivalry, can we say from this pay phone – yes, he beat me in the elections, but now I want to enable him to defend himself; I was not satisfied with how he acted in Serbia or did not work well, but now I want to enable him to defend himself. Remember, if genocide charges brought against Slobodan Milosevic fall, genocide charges against Serbia have been dropped. And did Serbia help Slobodan Milosevic drop the charge? It's not. It had to be alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1449	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, if you're using for the next ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1450	Are you limiting it?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1451	No, mistake, sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1452	I'd ask you not to limit my time, and I won't speak for long. I'll be done very soon. Not to go into comparisons with countries that are less democratic than us, which some of you like to point out as an example. But Croatia has a purchased building in The Hague that has been detached by the Croatian government. There are always some representatives of the Croatian government. It is attended by representatives of defence, members of the family, she is directly connected to Croatia. Every document, every paper needed, is made available to the defenders. Croatia's budget raises money for the defence of Croatian citizens indicted before The Hague tribunal. What have we been doing so far? If they had asked us to pay to be convicted, we would have paid out of the budget, only to be convicted, just so that one of them wouldn't accidentally return to Serbia, that he wouldn't come back while he was still on his feet, so he wouldn't take over our power. This law will support those who are not afraid of it. The law will support those who can imagine that they can find themselves somewhere in a situation where they need Serbia's help. Serbia must provide that assistance to its citizens. Serbia changes its attitude towards The Hague by this law, according to The Hague tribunal. I'm not ashamed of it. My relationship, like the SRS, has always been negative. Under great pressure from the media, that was the time, perhaps some of you had a positive opinion about The Hague tribunal. Today, perhaps even unanimously, we could prove that we have an opinion about The Hague itself. By treating Serbian citizens who are there and by treating Serbian citizens living in Serbia. Believe me, neither of us, how many millions of us are there, appreciates a gram more than those of our citizens who are now in The Hague. For them, we're the goods. They'd like to not dare to compete in the political life of anyone who could end up in The Hague. While Serbia, I think, will certainly not be able to achieve that goal. We prove it to them by this law. We don't stick a finger in anybody's eye. Such laws have all the countries in the world, and Serbia is one of the democratic, worldly states, on the way to becoming even more democratic after the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1453	Thank you. Does Milos Aligrudic, the rapporteur of the committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic, as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1454	On behalf of the DSS, I would like to express my satisfaction with the proposal put forward by this law. This proposal was submitted by the following parliamentary groups: SRS, DSS, SPS, G17 plus, SPO-NS. All in all, this proposal was signed by 195 MPs, making up most of the compositions of these parliamentary groups. On this side, I can conclude that this shows a high degree of awareness of the need for one of the priorities, i.e. of the state interest, to be achieved through this bill. The adoption of such a bill represents nothing more than the state interest of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. Namely, in order not to repeat everything that the proposing representative has presented before me, and in fact, it is a specific situation in which the UN tribunal accused are in custody of the International Criminal Tribunal detention unit, I would only point out here a few things relating to the legal institutes in question, in order to facilitate the understanding of the proposal of this law. This is about two types of rights, the rights of those accused on the one hand and the rights of members of their families. The rights of the accused are fundamental rights, which are rights to defence and evidence collection, and these rights are recognised here, i.e. they are compensated by the state of the Republic of Serbia from the budget, unless those rights are already recognised or compensated by the International Criminal Tribunal. On that side, there is no duplication of obligations to those faces. So it is about the primary protection of the defendants against the Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, and this is really about the very important step of the Republic of Serbia in this regard. On the other hand, this is also about the elementary protection of members of the families accused in The Hague. It is about introducing a category of material security of family members, not just any family member, but only those under whom there is a legal obligation to support the accused, unless the defendant otherwise can provide them with this support. So unless the defendant has the right to retire, unless he has the right to earn or make a profit under this law, and otherwise cannot afford the means to support their family members. It's a theoretical right that in practice doesn't have to happen to any of the defendants so far that it's necessary, not even to members of their families, it has to be in the future, but it was necessary to provide it in this law for justice. This law deals with the rights of family members for travel expenses, therefore, for the purpose of visiting the International Criminal Tribunal and those costs incurred due to the need to communicate with the accused. This law has no retroactive application. Therefore, it will apply from the moment of entry into force, which is from the first day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, and this law has a provision under which the government is obliged to regulate within 15 days of the adoption of the law the way in which the law provides. In line with this and because of the existence of a federal decision on the conditions for granting material assistance to certain categories of defendants before the International Criminal Tribunal for the prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991 and members of their families, it was necessary for the DSS parliamentary group to submit an amendment, which is the amendment of MP Petar Cvetkovic, which will practically exclude the parallel or simultaneous application of these two regulations. Although it's federal regulations, I.E. A federal decision by the Council of Ministers is much narrower in its determination regarding the circle of the person and the indictees before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague than is the bill. Namely, it is only about accused persons who have voluntarily surrendered to The Hague and to the narrow family members. Of course, the DSS has submitted another amendment to clarify Article 11 of this Law, where some dilemmas have emerged regarding the possible retroactive application of the rights of the accused and the amendment when the debate in particular is discussed I assume by his applicant, Milice Gavrilovic. In this way, we have finally regulated the position of the UN tribunal indictees and certain dilemmas that arise in this regard. Here I would remind of just one more thing: there is no, nor can there ever be a sign of equality between detainees in the Republic of Serbia and detained persons in front of The Hague tribunal in The Hague. These are two completely different situations. Different rules of procedure apply to those persons and regulate their position in different ways. It is because of this diversity, because of the specificity of their position and because of the particular need for the state of Serbia to protect its interest in the case of all charges against their citizens before the UN tribunal, that the need for the adoption of such a regulation has emerged. I really do, I hope, and I can see that this law will be passed, regardless of the number of amendments that certain parliamentary groups have submitted to this law, and on that behalf I must express my satisfaction, and I hope that all MPs of this Republic's parliament will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1455	I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go. The mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group, MP Goran Svilanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1456	Ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the National Assembly, allow me to congratulate you on your election, because this is the first opportunity I have to address both you and the MPs, whom I also wish for successful work on both this and all other occasions while the mandate of this assembly is being held. Let me also congratulate everyone who has signed a joint proposal for the adoption of this law, the formation of a large coalition called Slobodan Milosevic, and I will try to explain in the next few minutes why I said so. I'm not surprised at those who were in Catholicism, nor are I surprised by colleagues from the SRS, since their recent president is also in The Hague. The only wonder is that those who have tried hard for years to change the government he led, representatives of the DSS, are putting their signature behind this law. An even greater surprise is the fact that the G17 MPs put their signatures behind this law, because it was never about their determination to also do as much as they could change the government. The most surprising fact is that under this law, MPs of the SPS are putting their signatures, as there is still a suspicion that the government's intention was, it is being debated in court, that their president was also killed, and that individual members of the party were eventually killed. The basic problem of this law you are proposing is that aid is given to all indictees in the detention of The Hague tribunal. That way, without any examination of the real property of these people, you're giving help to rich people and to those who have become rich... (Chairman: Please do not throw away.) )......................................................................................................... in the period when the Serbian people were killed and the Serbian citizens were killed. It wasn't enough that they took houses and money. Now it is necessary, no matter what some of them pay extra profit, that the state pay them and the defense. An additional question, why indictees before The Hague tribunal are given material assistance, rather than giving it to all those in custody who are tried in front of our courts. How we have established such an unfair treatment of all our citizens in front of domestic courts, and I would specifically like to point out one thing that we should distinguish. We should tell the difference between politicians and soldiers and cops on the other side. The reason is that we are in such a situation today that we do not know if any of these soldiers or police officers will receive orders. Therefore, they have the right to have a guarantee of the safety of their families and that should be understood. However, it has gone far beyond that here, and it is essentially an opportunity for the National Assembly of Serbia to make a decision to further finance the defence of those who are in the tribunal and who may have brought themselves and the state into a special situation by their political mistakes. Perhaps the most important thing that giving will help all indictees, and especially giving to help defend them, is that they are identified with the state. This identification can only harm us when it comes to charges for genocide, which previous speakers have mentioned, and have filed against our state of BiH and Croatia. The blame for the crimes committed, in which members of the Serbian and other peoples of our nearest environment were killed, must be individualised and the state should not be identified with the defendants, as it will eventually turn out to be identified in their, possibly, convictions for these crimes if such a decision is finally made. The only reason why some of those accused, who are present in front of The Hague, should be helped is to finally enable the completion of the overall process of co-operation with the tribunal, to remove the yoke of conditions from our country's door, from our people. How else to justify our poverty the fact that money is given to those who are otherwise very well placed, and that is a fact. Not everyone in the tribunal is in this situation. A good number of those who are there is in that situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1457	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1458	Let me also say a few sentences about what has been done so far and who, at this point, is funded by the state and is located in the tribunal. On the basis of a proposal from the National Council for Co-operation with the Court, and I have led it for a little over the last year, the Council of Ministers has made a decision to allow compensation to those who meet two conditions: one is that our citizens and I believe that you do not dispute that condition; the other is that they have voluntarily surrendered. The decision was made to encourage those accused of surrendering voluntarily, not to have the government, not to have their colleagues, soldiers or police officers arrested in the streets and squares of our cities. The aid is worth 200 euros per month to the defendants in the detention unit; travel expenses for members of the family: they are specifically entitled to three airline tickets and 250 euros for their stay at The Hague, and every two months. That's what's being paid today. And third, they have the right to material assistance from families whose total family incomes are below the average in the Member State, if they are Serbs from Serbia, if they are from Montenegro from Montenegro. The National Council can also decide that members of families of persons who do not meet these two conditions, citizenship and voluntary surrenders are also granted material assistance for humanitarian reasons. The defendants who have been released to defend themselves from freedom also have the right to material aid. That is what Serbia-Montenegro is funding at the moment. The National Council has made a decision to assist all the defendants who have voluntarily surrendered. At the moment, Serbia-Montenegro is helping 16 guilty and members of their families. These are: Franki Simatović, Mitar Rasevic, Mile Mrkšić, Milan Martic, Miodrag Jokić, Jovica Stanisic, Dragoljub Ojdanić, Vojislav Sješelj, Pavle Strugar, Nikola Sainović, Milan Milutinović, Dusan Fuštar, Vidoje Blagojevic, Milomir Stakić, Momcilo Gruban. For humanitarian reasons, the National Council has approved the aid and family of Predrag Banovic, who has not surrendered voluntarily. Therefore, the financial aid received by the defendants and their families depends on their assets and depends on the amount of income. Unlike the proposal you made, the possibility of a poor state giving money to wealthy citizens has been avoided. For those who really need help, and in many cases a greater amount is given than the one envisaged by this bill that you have now submitted, more is given today. The assistance we now provide involves paying for airline tickets and visiting costs for family members. And that proposal that you made the house at the open door. That's what we're paying for. That right, I'd like to tell you the benefits of the Vojislav Seselj family. It's in line with decisions so far, and they've already used that right. As far as the defense costs go, those who don't have money are being paid by The Hague Court. I heard it from the representatives of the SRS and the representatives of the DSS. It is true, you said well, and now the defence is being financed from the tribunal's budget. To each of those in the tribunal. What the radicals really want, and the ones who joined their proposal, is that the state... (Chairman: Please listen to each other.) )......................................................................................................... He is now paying their joint chief - Slobodan Milosevic. Because when you look at the list of those who are already paying the cost, you'll see that this whole law is really about it and it's essentially a concession, it's about paying back the debt to those who supported the formation of this government. Should we once again identify Milosevic and Serbia, which would question the dignity of this nation and the defence of the state before the International Court of Justice, who are accused of genocide. And that's what previous speakers noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1459	Excuse me, are you using for the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1460	Yeah. Finally, I'd like to ask you -- why didn't you ask for support for a law that would allow you to help the families of those who suffered because of the error of the policies that was conducted. You'd get support. You have hundreds of thousands of people who lost their foster parents because they were professional soldiers, because they were cops. Why didn't you pass such a law and ask for support to help these people make ends meet? In this law, essentially, the idea is to help only the number of people who are currently not receiving help, and that's a very small number, and it won't be a help that really serves to fund their defense, because the defense has already been funded. You said yourself that there's still no case of anyone asking for defense funding and that they haven't been compensated for that defense. So this is all about symbols, not real support and help. There were words about a lawyer's request - the defendants of the defendants, to be delivered documents. No request has been made so far without being positively answered. Any document that can get the defense can also have the prosecution, and vice versa - any document requested by the D.A.'s Office has been received, at its request. There has been no difference in behavior so far, and in that sense your proposal goes and knocks on the door. In the end, I'll just say two things. The first is, I hope you had in mind that when they are in front of this tribunal this law can be called also by Thaci, Haradinaj or any other one of those who have committed crimes and who are already on the charges of our authorities; we hope that they will also be indicted by the UN tribunal in The Hague. And, last thing, if you already adopt this law, respect the basic rules of our legal order and do not allow it to be retroactive, or if you want it to be retroactive, do what is necessary, previously hold a debate on whether there is a public interest and if you agree that there is a public interest, then it is possible to pass a law that will have a retroactive fact. I thank you for your attention to those who wanted to hear these words. I especially thank those who have been very anxious all along to give their counterarguments. It's an opportunity for you to tell the anti-arguments and discuss them together. MPs on the Democratic Party list will vote against this law. The debate will not take part further, unless there are reasons for controversy, and all the amendments we have made have already been withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1461	The president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Branislav Ristivojevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1462	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to refer to a few moments in the presentation of Mr. Svilanovic, who I do not think is in place and that they are not standing. Especially since certain actions by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been managed by Mr Svilanovic, and especially in the process brought before the International Court of Justice on complaints from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, it was not for the benefit of this country, but vice versa, at the expense of its interests. But I'll be done with it. I'd like to point to a few illogicalities. First, as regards decisions at the federal level, the rights under this decision and the rights under this law cannot be combined or used twice and in this direction is the amendment of one MP, a respected counterpart, Mr Cvetkovic, who will regulate it. So no one's gonna exercise these rights twice, and then they're gonna redo the budget unnecessarily. Furthermore, as for some of these rights, you say they don't come true anywhere. They are realized, and according to our Labour Act, whoever is in custody has the right to make a profit in a certain amount and over a certain period of time. The difference between our Labour Act and the average detainee in this country and the detainee in the International Criminal Tribunal detention unit in The Hague is this: there are at least restrictions on how many men can be in custody until the judge is brought to justice, there are no restrictions in the International Criminal Tribunal. Recorder's one of the defendants at four and two months in custody, and he wasn't brought to justice and his trial didn't begin. No wonder we have to go beyond those rights that can already be exercised in this country and according to our Labour Act in terms of incarceration income. As for your, purely political objections, if this law were to underline a link between crime and the state and the like, I would point to a well-known and well-founded legal principle that no one was guilty until proven guilty, or presummated innocence. Claiming that by this law anyone is behind criminals or behind a crime is equally a claim that anyone who has already been indicted before the tribunal is guilty and responsible for what he is accused of. To some extent, you are right, the International Criminal Tribunal in its name has a presummation of wine, it is called the International Criminal Tribunal for the persecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law. I've had this opportunity many times to point out to the tribunal's senior officials, and they couldn't give me an answer as to how it was possible for that judicial body to stand guilty. Practically, one who enters the process of prosecution is already guilty, but it is done by the tribunal and the Security Council established by the tribunal. You don't do it with this law. There is no undermining between the state and individuals by this law. Only certain rights come true here. As far as the right of material security is concerned, there is one member of the family in the event that the defendant did not exercise the right to earn or retire or for some reason it ceased in the course of his detention. So no one here who's entitled to profit is going to get some extra profit, get rich at the expense of this law. (President: Time. In the end, I would end up with these damages that were done by the interests of this country during which you, a respected colleague, Mr. Svilanovic, were led by the Ministry. I would like to remind you that the countersuits filed by this state against the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia in the proceedings pending before the International Court of Justice were withdrawn by the teams that you formed when you put together a defence team. Also, I'd like to point out that for the leader of the defense team, you've put a gentleman with an extremely great conflict of interest in this process. The esteemed professor, who you have placed in this place, is on the lists of arbitrationists of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce in Sarajevo. It is a man who respects the interest of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce in Sarajevo when it is on the proposed list of their arbitrationists, and in proceedings against Croatia and Bosnia, we should be represented. What do you mean? (President: Time. How do you plan to set up a man who will have that conflict of interest and that split? I'm not saying it's gonna go too far on one side or the other, but why can you even get into this situation that someone with a conflict of interest is set up to protect the interests of this country? The question is who will be loyal to, the money it receives from these chambers of commerce in arbitration that may appear either in the interests of this country. That's what I'd end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1463	You have no right to a replica, I'm sorry. The promoter has a championship. (Goran Svilanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1464	First of all, as far as retreating is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1465	Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1466	Thank you. I'll talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1467	Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1468	Table. As for the withdrawal of the suit, if our defense is to prove that the court is not in charge, each of you who knows the right knows that we cannot sue in front of that court at the same time because we claim that he is not in charge, until we discuss whether he is in charge; it is not discussed, we cannot go with the countersuit. The moment the court decides whether or not he is in charge, we are entering the second stage of the case in which it is possible to press charges. It's an elementary knowledge of law and that's what you should have known before you said anything in any way about withdrawing the charges. We can still stand her if the court finds him in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1469	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1470	In court, like the International Court of Justice...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1471	Mr. Ristivoevich, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1472	One minute. Article 100. When you gave it to him, you'll give it to me. Contrajugation in a serious court, such as the International Court of Justice, can once be invested and once withdrawn. You deprived us of our countersuits. Just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1473	Proposer, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1474	Now a practice is in place for one minute. From now on, everyone has one minute. I have not been surprised for a long time by the devastation of Serbia's reputation in the world, as I know it is represented by Goran Svilanovic. He tells us here about the coalition, this is a coalition with the people. He's telling us the minister has created a new coalition. Are you in opposition? Why doesn't Minister Svilanovic resign? Why doesn't Minister Tadic resign? How come the Democratic Party is always in opposition and there are always ministers in the government? Since when? When you refer to the basic principles of politics, opposition and position, it separates whether there are ministers or not, not what attitudes it represents and what it votes for in the Assembly. In the Assembly there are also people on the street to meet three citizens and ask them what they think about this law, they may belong to different political options without telling you the same attitude, even though they are not in coalitions. It's just that we radicals have never been in the coalition with Chummet. Mr. Svilanovic has the head of the Chummet. You're talking about the defence right, and I already said, the right to finance the defence against The Hague tribunal has one who recognizes The Hague tribunal. Defiant Serb Vojislav Seselj does not have the right to finance defences, the tribunal does not recognise. Slobodan Milosevic does not have the right to finance, the tribunal does not recognise. Is that a less valuable citizen for us, because he says there - I don't admit that you judge me - and I don't need to be tried. What Mr. Svilanovic says, that we don't judge officers without judging politicians, so he can never go back to power again, ever again. To judge all politicians in Serbia Goran Svilanovic -- po "jo" -- can no longer lead Serbian politics. Just one more thing: yes, for former President Milutinovic 200 euros a month, and Natasa Micic uses all the privileges as if she were the president of Serbia. That's not what the Civil League is talking about. She was the acting officer, not elected at all, usurped, trampled the Constitution while she was acting as acting and now enjoys all the privileges of the President of the Republic. Come on, we'll give everyone who's been on duty 200 euros each to get you to The Hague, see if that's good or not. So please don't be afraid of this act. It's not anti-state, it's not against anyone, it's just Serbia's solidarity with those who are there just because they're accused. Some of you drove away by force, and some of you left voluntarily. We Serbian radicals have given the best we have – Vojislav Seselj and we have nothing left, only now so that you can take us all. But when we're best there, it's like you're judging us all. I thought, when you kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic, that you broke up with it, because when the one who's on top goes away, I thought you reached a deal: here, we give what's on top, don't touch any more citizens. You just took it out of the helihoptera, they made a request for the Banovic brothers. They underestimated you so much, they humiliated you so much. It will never stop, if Serbia is to be taken care of like this. So, remember, you who are on the same list with enemies like this state, think about it a little bit. I agree that it may have helped you to have a better election result, but if he comes out here and says he's representing you, I'm surprised none of you are coming out on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1475	On what basis do you want the word? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1476	Since I am directly mentioned, I have the right to respond to what has been said. You have very little knowledge of this, I am sorry that, as the case goes, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia for genocide against our country. At the same time, media often speculates with the withdrawal of our lawsuit, filed by the previous government, against never NATO member states. There have never been any statements, nor have I, and I lead these proceedings, nor have my associates, in favour of withdrawing this lawsuit against the NATO member states. In doing so, I am now taking the opportunity since I was called, to tell you that no proceedings before the International Court of Justice in The Hague have lasted as long as the Bosnian genocide suit has been pending so far. That's one fact you should have in mind. It is a fact in favour of the competence of those who lead the process, despite what you said, that there may be a conflict of interest. So, quite contrary to what you're saying, a team of experts, who make up legal experts for criminal law, for international law, which was formed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, conducts these court proceedings in a way that has not been decided so far by our country's interests and will remain, I believe, and when a new foreign minister is elected tomorrow or Friday. It will be an opportunity to be this, any other team, just as it shows, competent to protect the interests of the citizens of this country. It is true, in front of the International Court of Justice, that, according to these charges, the interests of all of us who live here are at stake. It is an opportunity for us to get these proceedings. Secondly, and directly related to what we are talking about today, someone mentioned the chief prosecutor of The Hague court, Carla del Ponte, and mentioned the results so far in defence of Milosevic, any other indictees. You could have heard the extent to which the current statements by tribunal officials or prosecutors referred to the possibility of a verdict condemning genocide. It is only part of it and the result of previous co-operation with the tribunal, just when it comes to documents or archives. He was led, within this Milosevic procedure in The Hague, by a special dispute launched by the prosecution against our state of non-cooperation. It has lost all points of the dispute and it has been found that the state is co-operating, and the prosecutor's office has since said quite publicly that it has a problem with whether or not it will prove the genocide charge. I do not argue that this is the result of only this team of experts, primarily those who lead this defence, but I also point out to what extent the interests of the citizens of this country were taken into account when they were co-operated with the court in The Hague, or when proceedings were conducted before the International Court of Justice on charges of genocide, whether it was Bosnian or Croatian. (President: Time. ) Let me inform you that the debate on the lawsuit against NATO member states will take place on 19 April. (Branislav Ristivojevic: Replica, I am quoted. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1477	Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1478	Dear fellow Members of the People, you have not answered two things, dear colleague, Mr Svilanovic. I said that the countersuit was dropped once and can no longer be used in the proceedings before the International Court of Justice. We've been deprived of the possibility of proving that genocide has been committed against us. Secondly, you have not explained to me at all how it is possible and what will be a loyal man who is hired to lead the team, if at the same time he is on the list of the arbitration panel of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in Zagreb and the BiH Chamber of Commerce in Sarajevo? We now need to believe here that he will be loyal to the passport he may have, and he will not have the money he gets there. Third, for forgetting your first exposure to say, if Mr. Thaci and Haradinaj want to take this country's passport and go to The Hague, I will pay for their defense from my pocket, just let them admit that they are citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1479	The chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1480	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, God forbid there was no reason to discuss this law, which is only due to what happened, which is the extradition of the UN tribunal to The Hague, which has been done illegally and against the law. Any law cannot demand the basic fact that the extradition of Yugoslav citizens is carried out against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If someone wanted to make extradition, they should have changed the Constitution first. You know well that the SPS was against the law, against the Law of Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I'm not surprised at the tone of those who extradited our citizens to the UN tribunal and I don't expect them to have a different tone. They did so because they believe they are guilty, not because they fulfil alleged international obligations. They did it because they believe this country was committing genocide. They did so because they believe Serbia was the source of all instability and war crimes in the Balkans over the past 10 years. They did it because they hated Milosevic more and the previous government than they loved their country. Here's how we're gonna deal with Thaci. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Serbia and the federal government were more concerned about Thaci when he was arrested at one of the world's airports than any citizen extradited to The Hague. Phones heated up to explain to those countries that it was an APB issued during Milosevic and that they were political indictments. You executed the amnesty of those who killed Serbian children and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and the other day we all found together that it was the continuation of ethnic cleansing policy. It may be a previous government and every single individual may have mistakes, but let's get rid of ideological indications, let's get rid of the difference between parties, because that's why we're doing damage to our own people and our own state. In Kosovo and Metohija there has always been an ethnic cleansing policy, but ethnic cleansing of Serbs. People are in The Hague because they have been accused of making ethnic cleansing against Albanians. Whether we were right or those of The Hague tribunal, who today have not filed any charges against any Albanian in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think we'll be waiting to file any charges against Albanians, because these are their political partners in Kosovo and Metohija. These are the leaders of political parties, these are the people who are in the so-called political parties. The Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija, which includes representatives of some of your political parties that alibi these institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. The difference is whether someone voluntarily surrendered or was extradited is absolutely not standing. Those who voluntarily surrendered did so according to their decision. I must say, you have deceived those who have surrendered voluntarily. You promised them that the state would advocate that their defenses would be taken from freedom. Who among them has been released besides that admiral, who seems to me to have been in the party of Dusan Mihajlovic, Mr Jokic? Who'd they let go of that? People who were dying. In the "Sabbe" action, you arrested people not for the murder of Djindjic, but for handing them over to The Hague tribunal afterwards. Explain to you, who are still in power, why Carla del Ponte spoke, and no one denied her, that she could no longer meet you, because you asked so many people to extradite themselves to The Hague tribunal that they no longer knew what to do. Carla del Ponte said that you asked her to hand over some people from Serbia and you're talking about protecting these people and protecting Serbia. You should be ashamed of that. We think this law is not enough to help people charged with the UN tribunal. It's a big shift that this law seems to be brought to me by the great majority. This isn't any coalition. It's a good thing Mr. Svilanovic talked about it earlier. I hope that gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Serbia, who are still hesitating whether Svilanovic and Tadic will remain ministers, will make the right decision. Indeed, as far as we are concerned, there is a huge difference. The difference is that you think these individuals are there as individuals. We will not defend any Serb or any Serbian citizen, a Serbian citizen who committed any war crimes. Who's that? Is there one in The Hague that has been proven to have committed a specific war crime? Maybe there's a few of them. Everyone else is on the line of command responsibility. A few days ago, we unanimously concluded that if Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are attacked again, and the United Nations do not meet their obligations, it is Serbia's obligation to protect them. Which of the soldiers and police officers will do so if tomorrow such men, as was my predecessor for the pay phone, will extradite them to The Hague tribunal and tell them that they are war criminals? Who's gonna dare more? We, of course, believe there were war crimes, but there was no systematic state policy of ethnic cleansing and genocide. Some are talking about some big funds being provided here. These are minor assets. How much damage you will do to this country if Milosevic or anyone else on command line number one is convicted of genocide, because that will condemn the entire state and the entire people. It's about a few dozen billion dollars. Am I right? How much is Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawsuit? How much will Croatia take out? What depends on the outcome of these charges? So it totals more than 50-60 billion dollars. What will the International Court of Justice's verdict in The Hague depend on? Not the one we are discussing today, but the International Court of Justice: whether Milosevic will be convicted of genocide. Do not say that you helped Milosevic not to be convicted of genocide. You did everything you could to convict him, all the documents you gave to Carly del Ponte. You gave me a stenogram from the Supreme Defence Council session. Momcilo Perišić, described as a spy by all of you, gave a stenogram from the General Staff session, and you gave the stenograms from the Supreme Command session of the General Staff. Then what are you? The extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, as wrote by Mr. Mijatovic, who served as deputy head of state security at the time of your government, was attended by Ceda Jovanovic, Dusan Mihajlovic, but was commanded by an English intelligence officer or attaché. I didn't remember his name. You know it better than I do. How's that? Will someone answer for that? Mr. Nikolic mentioned Chumet a little while ago. And others of the Surcin and Zemun clan arrested Milosevic to extradite himself to The Hague tribunal. You all know that. So, I just want to say that we're going to vote for this law. We will vote because we consider it an obligation of the state to help those who are in front of this international court in The Hague, whose jurisdiction we otherwise do not recognise because it is established in an illegal manner. We have objections and amendments to this law, but we will vote for it because we believe it is good that there is a common position of political parties on this, no matter what they think of certain people who are in front of The Hague. In the end, I want to say one thing, I will advocate myself, and also a party whose chairman I am of the board, that we also care about the families of those who will go to prison because they have anti-constitutionally extradited Serbian citizens to The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1481	Replica, MP Goran Svilanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1482	The only good part of this debate is that this is an opportunity to discuss a few topics parallelly. You mentioned the Bosnian genocide suit, Croatian. I mentioned a lawsuit against NATO member states, we mentioned several of those accused and found in court in The Hague. We didn't mention Major Chisic. At the proposal of Defence Minister Tadic and Foreign Minister, more than half a million euros have been allocated for his defence so far, just so you know, the information that can be used by you about how the state can stand behind soldiers, officers, behind police officers who are charged with a serious crime, and apparently it is about a man who executed the command at one point. From who, why, maybe that lawsuit will show, and maybe never will. That's why I mentioned in the presentation that maybe you should think about how to distinguish between professional soldiers and officers who risk their lives every day. It's a profession they chose. Secondly, there are no ideological indications here, as has just been said. As to how much we went out to meet the prosecution's demands, the prosecution is referring to a lawsuit filed against the state, and by which it lost each of these points, as well as a statement by the prosecutor that he has a problem proving genocide, which is an element of our defence, along with a message about the Bosnian and Croatian lawsuit, because we claim that the genocide was not there. So far, they have failed in that request. In particular, I would like to respond to something else that has been said about the level of the claim, and please don't waste billions of dollars on the request either of Bosnia or of Croatia. These are the figures that politicians are talking about in their public, and they are not in the complaint request. It may be precise depending on the results of this dispute. Please don't open the topic here, do we owe anyone a billion dollars? We don't owe. So please don't talk about billions that aren't in that request. Finally, I'd like to say something about the lawsuit, the countersuit, and, if I'm not mistaken, correct me, you were talking about Professor Varadi. I said his name, you were talking about the team's boss. I would like to tell you, first, he was proposed by the president of your party and then the president of Serbia-Montenegro for the minister of justice of the earlier federal government and rejected the proposal. He was his first proposal. I think he deserves it by his competence and, as far as I know, enjoys all the support now of the Serbian Prime Minister, precisely because of the expertise he has shown throughout the conduct of this dispute. About the details – how our defence is handled in Bosnia and Herzegovina's complaint, I just want to inform you - and as chairman of the DSS Vojislav Kostunica is regularly informed. (President: Time. ) So, even during the time when he was no longer president of the state and has not yet become prime minister, he was regularly informed, just as that was the case with Miroljub Labus. I'm sorry about the time-out. Furthermore, when it comes to external trade arbitration, the costs are not financed by the Chamber of Commerce, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you mentioned, not by the state of Bosnia and Croatia, but by the parties. The disputes led by our other experts include him. They appear as judges of arbitration. The most common are those in which the interests of the companies in our country are protected, so our businesses hire them to protect their interests in this dispute. I think you know that, and I'm sorry that you manipulated this data, that in any way it was blackmailed by the state, whether it was Bosnia, whether it was Croatia or any other foreign trade chamber, in which they are held as judges of the arbitration people of our country: they were experienced lawyers, professors, experts on certain issues. So, they're funded by those who call them their judges and these are the most common companies in our country. That's all I want to tell you, there's no confusion about conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1483	Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ivica Dacic. Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1484	I would like to ask the chairman exactly on what basis she gave the right to a replica of Mr. Goran Svilanovic based on my presentation. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1485	You tell me, on what basis do you answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1486	You must respect the Rules of Procedure. Where did I mention him? According to Article 97, I would like to remind you, he has the right to replicate himself if the speaker is insultingly expressed about the MP or if his exposure is misread. I don't know where Mr. Svilanovic recognized himself. What irritated him to report for the replica, because I tried not to mention him at all, his time was over, there's no need to mention him. Did he recognize himself in the part where I talked about the Chumet or the ones who arrested Milosevic from the Surcin and Zemun clan, or did he recognize himself in this last sentence where I said we would take care of his family? Please explain, on what basis Mr. Goran Svilanovic has been reporting for the fifth time here. The Rules of Procedure are in order, Madam Chairman, for everyone. Therefore, it is also true for Mr Goran Svilanovic, although it is clear to me that, even though he is still in power, neither the Constitution nor the law, let alone the Rules of Procedure, was in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1487	National MP Goran Svilanovic was granted the right to replication based on mentioning. You mentioned him, not now, but in the previous presentation. By name and by name, you mentioned him several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1488	It doesn't matter if I mentioned him, it matters if I insulted him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1489	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Svilanovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups DSS, G17 plus, SPS and SPO-New Serbia. I give my word to MP Tomi Busetic, the SPS, after which Vladan Vukevic, SPO-New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of this law is a first step towards the uniform appearance of all relevant political forces on the issue of The Hague. This is the moment when the state should and must define a positive relationship with those who have defended our country, and most in The Hague have just been on the job. In The Hague, the truth is defended, and the truth is on our side. In The Hague are mostly Serbs, statesmen, politicians, generals, officers, a total of 70 and rested Muslims and Croats, as our people say - that Vlasi does not remember. That's why Serbia should have more interest than all these other countries in their relationship with The Hague. At this point, we don't need some ex-post mind, and we are witnessing these days the ex post minds of Nebojja Covic, who says Holbrook, Walker, Albright and how we were working on the scenario of persecution, lynching and exorcising Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija on March 17th and 18th. Aren't these the same people who were the promoters of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija in 1998 and 1999, the people who organized and devised the unprecedented aggression of NATO? Covic also makes heavy accusations at Harry Holkeri's expense. All Kosovo and Metohija administrators were the same, from Kushner to Harry Holkeri. We don't need a second mind. We need unity here. Neither did Goran Svilanovic, who said a few days ago that Germany is working on Kosovo and Metohija independence. Goran Svilanovic remembered late to say so today. What he's been doing for the past three years. Goran Svilanovic destroyed our diplomacy and would look much more like him to be the foreign minister of Albania and Croatia, not Serbia or the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. We need unity, not an ex-post mind on many other issues. When we talk about Resolution 1244, the resolution is a compromise, but it's not a capitulation. The problem is that Resolution 1244 is not being implemented in action. Simply, the Serbian people are not protected, they are not safe and none of the questions that have been addressed under Resolution 1244 have been resolved. It is quite clear, and today we must all be aware that Kosovo and Metohija are not a democratic issue, it is not about whether or not there is enough democracy. In Kosovo and Metohija there is a persecution of the Serb population, terror and naked abduction of territory. That's why I'm saying we don't need any later brains. Today, when we pass this law, we must say that in The Hague the truth is defended. The truth is on our side. The wars were waged by Croats and Muslims in these areas. The statements by Franjo Tudjman and Izetbegovic are also known. Tudjman said - I went to war to get my independence as soon as possible. Izetbegovic, for the sake of the sovereign Bosnia and Islamic state, would sacrifice all sorts of peace and that is true, and it is unfortunate that in Serbia today there are a large number of political parties and other forces telling a different story. Of course, when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, we know very well that terror took place in 1998 and 1999. We were just dealing with terrorism. In Kosovo, human rights were not at risk for Shipara, there was no humanitarian disaster in Kosovo. What is it that the Shiptars missed during all these years? They had every right, but those rights were not used. When we talk about the humanitarian disaster, it happened only after the bombing and the time of the bombing. And what has changed in the international community all these years, both in the '90s and today in 2004. Almost nothing. KFOR and UNMIK are not doing their job as a commitment under Resolution 1244, the media are the same in the 1990s and several days ago. International organisations and the Security Council did not properly condemn the genocide that took place in March 2004. UNESCO is totally nonchalant about the destruction of all our sanctities, and here we come to this key issue, which is in some way related to this law, because we must be unique when it comes to these most important state issues. It does not matter to certain international factors who is in power in Serbia. They implement their programme and it's a fact, but if we're unique, if we know what we want and if we agree together and we come together on the most important vital issues, we'll certainly get better. We know this law will be welcomed to the knife of many. First of all, from those political parties to yesterday at DOS, such as Batic, Mihajlovic, Goran Svilanovic, his Civil League. We know very well what this policy has led to. They almost destroyed our society in three years. We know how the citizens have defined themselves towards them. All these parties got zero percent. Both Svilanovic and the Civil League would have gone through the same thing - zero percent. Would he be better than Batic? No, you wouldn't. The law will welcome the knife and many NGOs, various analysts, experts whose sole task is to interpret what NATO, the International Crisis Group, is doing all this against the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Of course, they don't work for free, they take good money from abroad, and no one who gets money from abroad gets it for free, it's all against the interests of this country and this people. In any case, the law will help many indictees. The most important aid to us is President Slobodan Milosevic. He's never had any help from this country before. On the contrary, they were just clips in wheels, and Milosevic is brilliantly defending himself, defending himself, and he will win the Hague himself, which we are almost confident of. Finally, this law should officialise new courses of government and state towards issues of vital national interest, and this particular issue of The Hague is also a state issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1491	The word is Vladan Vukicevic, SP-NS, followed by Marko Krstic, G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1492	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is evident that in the past 10 years Serbia has gone through great agony and, of course, it is difficult and too difficult to live in Serbia. We are safe, all of us, and we know that The Hague tribunal does not favor Serbs, that The Hague tribunal is a court that in some way punishes Serbs, and that it favors Albanian terrorists and all other terrorists, who have fought against Serbs and the Serb people. The question arises, when this law is passed, essentially, whether Serbia has done enough at this time to defend its fellow citizens in The Hague, as well as how it should help. Who have all the victims of the past years and these wars that we have been through, who are all the victims of NATO aggression and in what economic state are these victims today, in what economic state is the whole of Serbia? What about the disabled? Who takes care of the disabled? How do disabled wars live in Serbia today? Of course, every serious state is obliged to defend, protect, protect and think that a lot of time has been wasted and that Serbia should have protected and defended its citizens in The Hague, but in this bill, it bothers me that in Article 2 it stands - a narrow family, a brother, a wife, a child, and then a brother, a sister is mentioned. It has not been defined how much funds will be allocated, who will allocate the funds and how many times the family can travel to The Hague in one month. I didn't see that here. Of course, there are here in Serbia and those other people who might have needed help. What about Major Šisic, who is the same victim, is not mentioned here and is in prison in Italy. What's very important is this Article 11, which says we need retroactively to pay off everything. Gentlemen, I believe that Serbia is obliged to help its citizens, but in some ways we had to compare this law a little bit with our economic situation, and we all know that the economic situation of all citizens in Serbia is inappropriate and it is not such that Serbia can live normally. As a man, I certainly cannot vote and say I should finance Mark Milosevic. I cannot allow myself, in some way as a taxpayer, to force all Serbian citizens to vote for Mark Milosevic. And we all know and remember when Slobodan Milosevic said, "He is not a man who is 20 years old and has not earned a million marks." I've been a private man for 18 years, I've earned a million marks, and a million marks of honest work in Serbia are hard to earn. For these reasons, I think that in some way it had to be done to help inside the country with evidence, materials, to give all the evidence and materials that would serve in the defense of all the defendants who are in The Hague, but that, as far as material donations are concerned, there had to be some cut and said, all those who are not in a good material situation and who have not earned millions of dollars, should get help, and those who in this country for a short time, with 20 years of life, have earned a million and more dollars, these people can travel, to protect and defend their parents in The Hague, and what is their absolute right. In some ways, all the victims in this country will be injured if we pass this law, and we don't make any cuts, even though who needs to be helped and who needs to be denied that help. Those who, by their work or in some other way, managed to earn millions of marks or millions of euros in their time, I believe that they can defend their parents from their resources. And the state of Serbia gives absolutely all the material evidence to provide in their defense. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1493	The word is by MP Marko Krstin, G17 plus, followed by Bogoljub Pejcic, SPO-New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1494	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of the G17 Group plus has supported putting this item on the agenda out of the need to regulate those rights of the defendants before The Hague tribunal that are not sufficiently protected by the current legal system and the system that is in force in a city called The Hague. However, by reading the law, which we have really searched on the Legislative Committee, I have the feeling that some issues have been given too broadly in terms of rights, then too broad in terms of persons, too much in terms of the amount and without the corrections of economic opportunities or the inability of candidates to exercise those rights. I wouldn't comment on the situation of taxpayers. We're missing a financial opinion so we can know if this can be done. But I'd like to point out a few things. When we pass this law, we should know what rights are given to persons who are in the status of detainees before the courts in Serbia, or persons who are being prosecuted in Serbia. I will note that Serbia is also conducting criminal proceedings against the perpetrators of the same group of crimes as those in custody under this law that we are now talking about. The rights of accused employees, when it comes to profit regress, are regulated by Article 111. The labour law applies only to the rights of detained persons. So there's no right to relatives, there's only persons against whom a criminal case has been committed for a crime committed at work or in connection with work. What are those rights? It's a one-quarter salary that the person made for the month when it was temporarily away, or one-third of the profits, means more, if that person supports the family. There are no more rights than those rights in this country's legislation. When it comes to the rights of a person in criminal proceedings, it means that the relatives of those persons are missing again, and those accused of criminal proceedings have rights regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, as far as security is concerned, so-called. Poor defenses, as we say in the people, which is mandatory when it comes to criminal acts that have been threatened by prison for over 10 years, and the university, means it doesn't have to be, when it comes to crimes with prisons of over three years. And that, provided that this is required by the interests of justice and if the defendant is not able to bear the costs of the defence. So you will see that the rights set out in this law are far broader, more comprehensive in terms of the person, in terms of the right, in terms of the amount and in terms of checking economic opportunities. The essence of all the rights contained in all the positive laws in Serbia is to ensure that none of the defendants are convicted of having conditions to defend themselves. The G17 Plus MP really thinks this law should go in that regard. So everything that's beyond that, beyond that, that includes some other people who aren't accused is too much and goes beyond the framework of constitutional possibilities. In particular, I am referring to Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political and other credentials, education, social background, property or personal property. This law would really be an exception. Since the law is an exception, and as a lawyer, I must say, it is interpreted restrictively, meaning rope. This law has carried out a really wide interpretation of such a possible exception, and we have intervened in this regard some amendments, and I see amendments by representatives of other parliamentary groups. What the law looks like now is really too wide and covers some faces, some rights that shouldn't be there. There was a talk about retroactivity, and I think we should talk about it here, too. I think Article 11 allows the law to be applied retroactively, because the realisation of the bill's right of detention, and here we have certain amendments, if adopted, that situation will be able to be corrected. However, without the adoption of these amendments, Article 11. The constitution is not respected. In fact, certain provisions may have a return fact, but then it requires that we explain here the general interest in such a thing. We don't have such an explanation here and I hope that by accepting the amendment, we could remove that pretty big flaw. Furthermore, I will refer to the government's obligation to inform the defendant and members of the family of their rights under this law. I have to tell you that this is an obligation that the government has never had in any regulation before. Legal regulations shall be notified to citizens by publication in the official list i.e. "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", in the so-called A deadline called "vacatio legis", in which they are familiar with the regulation. In this situation, we have obliged the Government to inform the citizens and families individually, the accused and the families individually, of the law and the rights of the law. That would, of course, be logical, legal-systemically speaking, to work for the appropriate ministry, as we have, for example. that the Ministry of Justice decides on the rights of persons who are unjustly convicted in the ordinary legal regime, and does not decide on the Serbian government. I don't see why we're making a difference between ordinary convicts and those who will be unusually convicted, if they will be unusually convicted. The last principled remark would refer to the security of financial resources for the implementation of this law. There was a story that it wasn't so much money, that it was minimal. The reason for the law even says it's minimal. I don't think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 64, really allows such a concept of the text of the law, so neither does our Rules of Procedure. The law establishing the commitments for the budget cannot be passed unless the body which adopts it has previously established whether funds are provided for the enforcement of the law. That's what Article 64 says. The Constitution. We have one sentence here that says "minimum funds." So it doesn't say - it's not secure, it's not secure, it's not secure, it's not safe. The minimum we have to have is an estimate of the funds. No one expects it to be said now in a dinar, in two, in a thousand dinars, but some assessment must be. So, with certain corrections, changes, which the truth enters and the essence of the law itself, this law could be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1495	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bogoljub Pejcic, SPS-New Serbia, followed by Jovan Palalic, DSS
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me sort of correct Mr. Aligrudic, and let me disappoint Mr. Svilanovic. The Serbian Renewal Movement did place its signatures, but these signatures were not put in because the SPO agrees with this law, but simply because the law should enter the procedure and be discussed here before this assembly body. No matter who agreed and who didn't, we expected this law to explain who among the Hague prisoners was poor, and who kept Ali Baba in caves and warehouses of Serbian bank money. You will not tell me that Slobodan Milosevic is a poor man, or that Mr. Sainovic is a poor man or that Milan Milutinovic is a poor man. Gentlemen, you read the other day in the paper that Slobodan Milosevic is the fifth in the world on the list of robbed billions and 600 million dollars, and right behind the famous Idi Amin. I hear that Tom here is complaining to me, and Thomas himself knows that his MP group has been criticising Milan Milutinovic, seven or eight years or nine years ago, I don't remember, because of the evasion of millions or two million dollars at the adaptation of his embassy in Athens. Would you say that Nikola Sainovic was a poor man, who was master of pine gold. You remember how many affairs there were about Sainovic around that gold and how many millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions of dollars were in the game. So, the SPO has no objection to funding the poor in The Hague, but it is against such people as Milosevic financing the cost of this poor woman. You can disrespect our victims. The SPO went through his ten-year googogue, where he was killed, beaten, mutilated, we have graves everywhere. You can disrespect those graves, but you can't ask us to give up those graves. That's why the SPO won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1497	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1498	I'm sorry to hear such words from Mr. Bogoljub Pejcic's MP. I sent a copy of this bill to the SPO delegation who was in my hands on Friday and asked him, as it was the DSS's intensities from the very beginning, to propose this law as many parliamentary groups as possible. When someone submits the bill and agrees with the proposal, then I suppose they'll vote for the bill. It is so natural and so much so far it has been present in parliamentary practice that this position, at least, surprises me. But other than that, I'm not going to say any more difficult words for this, that's clear to me. For the sake of truth, it is very important to say the following, after handing over an authorised representative of the SPO to this bill, then I am told there will be no problem with support. Since then, more than 48 hours have passed to the moment when the mandated representative of the SPO has accepted that the parliamentary group is found to be the proposer of this legal text, so the proposal was submitted shortly before 10 a.m. yesterday morning. That's the living truth about this thing. It is simply that if I had not heard this agreement on the proposal for this law had not been given, the name of this parliamentary group would not have been on this ballot that you have all received, i.e. in this copy of the bill that has been handed to all of us. So, there's nothing else I can do but express my regret about it and leave it to the SPO so I can explain to myself how this happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1499	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1500	I'm not surprised at the inconsistencies. Yesterday, I did not believe that the SPO parliamentary group signed this proposal, because I was a federal MP in 1993 when you first handed over the procedure at the Federal Assembly of Co-operation Laws with The Hague tribunal. The SPO is too much co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It's an idea that's been leading you for 11 years. Demagogue stories about funding from the poor should be searched first at the SPO. A large number of you should not be financed from the budget as ministers as directors of public enterprises, and the people have already funded you long enough. Belgrade has funded you so well that the water and water will flow through Sava and Danube until the budget you have emptyed is filled. This is not about who's rich, and who's poor, especially I can't see that you have data and evidence that Milosevic stole a billion and 500 million dollars without anyone else in Serbia having that evidence. Would I represent here to provide money for the defense of a man who has a billion and 500 million dollars? They're stories for little kids. Where's that money? For four years around the world, the money that Slobodan Milosevic has and no one finds it, and Mr. Pejcic found it. So, inconsistencies are reflected in what you're proposing this law and what you came up with last night. But why am I happy about it? It was hard for me to see that you were also a proposing, and I'm glad that part of the G17 plus is not supported by this law. It's always hard for me to know that they don't like it, that it's not in their program and that it's not in their soul to cooperate with us. So I ask you all who are against this law, vote against it. Don't act like you're trying to help. You just have some reason. Vote against it. You were happy when people started going to The Hague. I ask you, what did you deserve none of you to go to The Hague? With what? Did the SPO call to defend the Serbs? Did you formulate the Serbian Guard? Did the guard participate in the front? Are all the local SPO committees made lists and collected volunteers? Which is why you deserve none of you to go to The Hague, if you go to The Hague because they are raised volunteers and because the idea of defending Serbs is represented. (President: Time. Maybe serving the West? You may have some arrangement not to be touched, and you here are disturbing the situation in the country. So think carefully in the future, when you sign something, stand behind it. If you have entered the government of Serbia, be in that Serbian government, there are no deputies in the opposition, and I have already had to say that to one of the parliamentary groups. You are now in the Serbian government. Who knows how long you'll be, how long they'll put up with you. Now that you are in the government of Serbia, please also from other parliamentary groups, perform here in a unique manner. Make a deal. Maybe our bill wasn't good for support, maybe the government wasn't behind this proposal, so don't anybody back it up. He doesn't have to be adopted. This debate has reached its goal. All of us, Serbia sees us now. Serbia knows everything about all of us after this debate. These funds are so minimal and are not worth mentioning how much they carry from the budget. He'll wear two more cars and the security of one of your ministers than this defense guard in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1501	The president of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1502	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's about like Mr Aligrudic said. It is true that I received the proposal late, or we spoke late Friday afternoon. It is true that Mr. Mihajlovic and I discussed it, that we consulted each other and that we called the MPs and agreed that this proposal should be on the agenda. We thought that the amendments would be fixed, that these dilemmas would be resolved, and as shown in the amendment. We thought this law should be on the agenda. So it's true and there's no dispute. Why shouldn't there be a change and why don't we talk about one proposal? However, it is not good that even now, as last time it comes to Kosovo, heavy words are used. We worked hard, when I say we, I say SPO-NS parliamentary group, not to use those words. Just then, when we talked about Kosovo, there were a lot of difficult words sent from this pay phone, both from Mr Nikolic. It's not good that we're doing it right now. I'm just saying one thing that's very important, Mr. Nikolic: SPO was a victim. That should always be in mind. It is said in the Old Testament: "The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God." So, fear of God. Again, Solomon when he tells his son, he says two sentences that he may now have to say here: "Don't answer the fool according to his folly, lest you be like him." And yet he says almost the same thing: "Announce the fool to his folly, lest he thinks he is wise."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1503	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, DSS. Pejčić: Replica. ) Can't replica on a replica. I apologize to Mr. Palalic, according to his Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1504	I volunteered for the replica of Mr. Pejcic's presentation, since he was talking about a party whose president I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1505	Here you go, replica, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1506	I think that the SPO, of course, rightly requires that, when some important issues are on the agenda, we all keep each other's accusations that are not in line with the desire to make any law or decision that is of interest to the entire state or nation. But from what my dear colleague and former commissioner are in the so-called. The transitional government, Mr. Pejcic said, could not be said that it was an approach to the SPO regarding this law, because a number of qualifications related to the assumption of someone's material condition were given. I wouldn't engage in the controversy of that occasion. Whoever's rich in this country isn't the subject of this law. It's the subject of the tax authorities. In the past few years, in three years as far as we're concerned, is there anyone here who thinks that the SPS and every one of its officials and one single minute have been out of the attention of all the organs of force and coercion in this country during DOS? Minister Batic spent more time looking for Milosevic or any bills abroad to eventually reach Janjusevic and Kolesar. Let's not mix up the subject. These funds, provided by this law, I have already said at the beginning, are insufficient to defend any indictee here before domestic courts for a far weaker or less criminal offence than they are being tried at The Hague tribunal. This is about the state's intention to help those indicted before the UN tribunal or their families. Milosevic is just one of them. This is about means that are symbolic. If someone doesn't know what 50% of the average earnings in Serbia are, correct me, I think it's about 6,350 dinars a month. Let's not mix topics and our political relations with each other, and who was with whom, and who was against whom. It got so mixed up in Serbia, you don't know anymore. I don't think there's anyone in this room who hasn't cooperated in the past 14 years since the multiparty system was introduced. But let's not mix up the subject. For the past few years, the UN tribunal has been accused of being held accountable: the President of the Republic of one, the President of the Republic of the other. (President: Time. ) There are also the president of Republika Srpska and the president of Republika Srpska, and God forbid the president of the Republic of Montenegro or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Montenegro ends there. All in command. Sainovic, too, Milutinovic, also. General Ojdanic. The late Vlajko Stojiljkovic would end up there on the line of command responsibility. Now we wonder why the charges for these four generals came; under command responsibility. This is about whether the state will have this law, which has all the other states in our environment. Croatia has settled this by its constitutional law. So I don't think you should do it this way. The SPO has the right not to vote for this, has the right to make its proposal, has the right to withdraw its proposal. (President: Time. ) Let us not, however, present qualifications that cast a different shadow on the essence of this law. It is not the essence of this law to help any last-time politician, but to help our country and our people to have as little harm as possible than what is happening in front of The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1507	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, DSS. Pejčić: Replica. On what basis are you looking for a word? You've caused a replica, People's Messenger. MP Ivica Dacic came forward on that basis. The word has the People's MP Jovan Palalic, the DSS, and after that, MP Milorad Vucelic, SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1508	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on the rights of the defendant in custody at the International Criminal Tribunal and members of his family represents, in a broad sense, the beginning of a different state relationship with our citizens indicted before this international court, but also the beginning of a two-way co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It has been said several times that co-operation with The Hague tribunal has so far been one-way and more in favour of the indictment, and hardly in favour of the defence. The accused who are there, no matter what we think of them politically, are not treated as our citizens, whose defenses may depend, in a certain sense, on the economic future of our country and our citizens. They were treated as if they weren't our problem, that they should be forgotten as soon as possible and not thought about them. In a certain way, this law points to the importance of a verdict that can be reached at the end of the process against our citizens and the state must not ignore the importance of their defence. This bill of law is on the trail. We can't be indifferent to the fact that judgments can be reached in that court for some of the highest-ranking officials of this country. As far as the rights laid down in this law are concerned and where the proceedings are regulated, both the defendant and his family, the state treats the accused in a special way, but also the members of his family, simply because their position is special. They are charged before an international court, in custody outside our country, thus making it difficult for them to defend and collect evidence to support them, and are also charged with the most serious crimes. In addition, communication of members of his family has been difficult, and even if it has been achieved, it has been embossed with high costs. That is why the bill sets out precisely three rights for family members and for the defendant himself. For the defendant himself, a flat-rate charge for defence costs for collecting evidence, as well as a fee for providing professional assistance is foreseen. Of course, the clear law excludes the possibility of such compensation being doubled if it is secured from the International Tribunal's resources. We consider these fees, determined by the proposed law, fair. As for the fees paid to the members of the accused's family, we can say that these fees are also fair. It has repeatedly been pointed out here that the allegedly funded members of a family who swim in some wealth, but Article 7 of Article 2 clearly states by whom these provisions are not applied. So, only if the defendant in custody has a maintenance obligation. As for the special rights of communication, it means the compensation for the communication of family members with the defendant himself, we think that a good part of these family members is not able to finance this type of communication, it also refers to sending packages besides telephone conversations, and it is also about establishing a legal relationship based on the power of attorneys who need to collect evidence in favour of the defendant himself. As to whether or not this law has been established, I would like to conclude that by adopting this law, it is important to make a turn from a constant turn of mind to a problem and the fact that some of our citizens in front of an international court can be convicted, and the consequences of such judgments can directly affect both the state and our fellow citizens, as well as that many members of the families of individual defendants are not able to finance the defence, but also the costs of communication. So we're going to run an active state policy that wants to contribute to the fact that the facts are true so that tomorrow, if the outcome for the country isn't positive, if it were negative, at least the conscience is calm that we've done everything that could be done, no matter how difficult the circumstances are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1509	The People's Messenger Milorad Vucelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1510	Dear MPs, we should not have one illusion and raise it here, to attend a copernican craft or an epochal act. Of course it's great that we're passing this law, but only because of the depth of our national and national fall, whose testimony we had an opportunity to hear about an hour ago. In this House, there were unworthy slanders, such as those of Slobodan Milosevic and some of his wealth, which are still stuck with the old and new vows or some of the stories of the Holy Scriptures, which is even more embarrassing and even worse. We think that we are now attending an act in which we do not know what, and we are not doing our usual duty and we are not making a little kamikaze, we are bringing into that rule of law, which has been so terrible in these last years. At the same time, those who have made so many laws and decisions are retroactively concerned about legality, legitimacy, and everything they have done, have done illegally and illegally. Of course, this does not diminish the importance of the bill and those who supported it, including the Socialist Party. But the law, together with the law proposed otherwise by the Serbian Radical Party in the parliament of the state union, makes one continent based on which we will be able to move a little bit, to put in an equal position the people suspected in The Hague in relation to all citizens who have protection in Serbia and citizens of other countries who have protection there. So, only if we can afford the right to legal protection, to documents, to everything the state has not done so far, because so far, the tribunal has charged 80% of the documents in the process with the prosecution, not its own state. I'm very specific about this since I talked to legal advisors, 80% of the material was obtained from the charge. For the first time, Serbia has expressed its state attitude towards its citizens, but also to the court, to The Hague tribunal, because so far the relationship has been defined and favourably determined primarily by the Hague prosecutor's office. It was only with one side, only with the prosecution's side. This law improves the protection rights of individuals and the protection rights of people and citizens, which is also the country's international obligation, according to declarations it signed in earlier years and decades ago. This law finally comes to respect one of the most sacred rights - the presummation of innocence and the right to defend. This is, of course, insufficient and small, but we from the Socialist Party of Serbia support and have joined the law only because we consider it better than nothing or better than nothing. This is one step towards Serbia's normality, one step towards building normal relations in Serbia and it is ugly, it is a pity that these remains of a policy that was so disastrously defeated in December in the elections of the riot and are trying to re-enter one non-cooperation, one confrontation into parliament, on the grounds that represent representing foreign interests, not the interests of the citizens of this country. So we're correcting an unfair situation. We interrupt that practice in which the state asked, and its "great-grandows", of Carla del Ponte - traveled to The Hague, after an interview she gave and according to the testimony she gave, to ask her to insist - to press charges against Jovica Stanisic and Frank Simatovic. Only at their request, on their request did they turn-in charges and send them to The Hague. That's what Carla del Ponte said, and she said not once, but several times, and to those who smile, I can document it easily, and right away. We interrupt the practice of our state not to help its citizens, but rather to push its citizens into the jaws of the tribunal and that prosecution. It's about genocide. It's about public interest. Is there more public interest in this Serbia than to defend the truth? Which makes the difference between soldiers, God's later soldiers, generals and politicians, when they are together tried for a joint criminal enterprise. So, in ten years, our police, politicians, military and military, generals and cops are putting themselves into a joint criminal enterprise. What country's struggle for the truth about genocide is being talked about here? The genocide indictment was brought down by Slobodan Milosevic himself, without any help from this state, only with the help of the Socialist Party of Serbia and no one else. He brought down himself, just as he revealed the lie about Račka and just as the truth about the sanctions was learned, which were introduced by a hidden and falsified report from the secretary general by the chairman in Austria. It was all done by Slobodan Milosevic himself, without any support and this assembly, not in this assembly, and in this state, and even less federal states. It will continue to work, whether you vote for this law or not. It will be done and it will be done, and we Socialists will do it ourselves, as we have done so far, and without you. And you vote freely, because this represents the continuation of one policy that violates all possible legal norms, which violates the rule of law, which puts into question everything that is the fluidity of civilization, is the protection of the rights of citizens and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1511	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1512	I'm not offended by Mr. Vucelic, I just want to explain something since he mentioned the SRS. Let me get this straight, 'cause this was about retroactivity. I hope Mr. Svilanovic's in the O.R. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Svilanovic. You've done something in your capacity as a lawyer, probably counting on them to stay here or not to be lawyers, or they don't want to talk about it. It concerns retroactivity, which Mr. Vukelic also spoke of. In fact, the law cannot and must not be retroactive, and you have passed many laws with a retroactive fact. You've even imposed criminal-legal consequences on one of them, which is terrifying. It was the famous Pedlog Law of Lustration that you adopted here, which was never adopted anywhere on a globe of Earth in a similar form. You made up stories about Hungary, you lied to us that it was there and that way adopted, you imposed a retroactive fact of criminal and legal consequences. And there's no point in talking about retroactiveness here at all. Why is there no and why no explanation of public interest is needed? Because no one, Mr. Svilanovic, and you as a lawyer, know that, is taking away their rights. No one is denied rights, Mr. Svilanovic. We are establishing the rights of this law and we have nothing to explain the public interest in this regard, because no one is threatened by the adoption of such a law. You have passed laws that violate fundamental human rights and freedoms, under the blasphemy of human rights and freedoms. So, save me from the god of the congregation that lays down laws with a retroactive fact. You brought more. Directly in substance, you've been hitting with some economic laws, and especially with this one that's had criminal and legal consequences, which is terrifying. You know it's scandalous, that no one in law school has ever learned that such a thing can be passed by someone in the congregation, that such a law can be passed. That's the difference. There's no retroactiveity here, because no one's rights are compromised, they're not narrowed down, they're not taken away. That's the point. One more thing. Since it's been imposed here, and that's what Mr. Vucelic was talking about, and it's true that this is not an epochal thing. And when some speak from this pay phone, it's as if I don't know who turned the situation around in Serbia. No, this is nothing special. We didn't do anything special. A simple law that shows only so little that Serbia cares about people in The Hague. There is much more to be adopted at the level of the state community and many other things at the level of the Republic of Serbia... (President Emilija Krstic: Time.) )......................................................................................................... to finally define our relationship with The Hague tribunal. Of course, to protect our citizens, they are our citizens. But it would have been much better if some had cared about the interests of our citizens, not the interests of other countries, other citizens, if they had taken care of both Kosovo and Metohija, and not how and how they were going to extradite Mr. Seselj to The Hague. I remind you, and in this we will endure, we will search for documents, and it will come to light, to see who it is and why it has sought to press charges against Vojislav Seselj. If you think you will convince one of the 82 SRS MPs to wait 10 years to press charges against Vojislav Seselj, since it was clear to everyone that in six months' elections in Serbia, Seselj is winning convincingly, you will find it hard to convince someone. So I'm just telling you -- keep an eye on what laws were passed, what they weren't, and Serbia will know whether these laws are in its interest or not. Don't scare her with any sanctions or anything. This has nothing to do with anyone. We didn't push anyone's finger in the eye, we're just a little bit of a goodwill... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Showed to families and people who were guilty just because they were Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1513	National MP Goran Svilanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1514	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd just like to say the next thing. You mentioned the Law of Lustration and possibly the retroactive fact of this law. Given that the SRS, as far as I know, has proposed the abolition of this law, I propose that we discuss this law and all its elements on this occasion. We are preparing for this debate and it will be our pleasure to face arguments, and regarding the element that you mentioned, and regarding the meaning of this law that has been passed. I reminded myself that there was a need to avoid the retroactive fact of the law that is now being proposed. I'm still saying that's good. What you said just doesn't stand. Whether rights are established or abolished, the law acts backwards. That's what we need to avoid. Of course, I have seen some of the amendments that have been made, which may remove the retroactive fact of this law and, in that sense, it will be correct. That was my suggestion. At the end of the discussion, I said – it would be good if, if you had already passed such a law, you would not allow it to act retroactively, or if you wanted it to be a law with a retroactive fact, then it would be necessary to open a debate on the interests that are being protected, to establish that it is a public interest, which this Parliament can and then go to the adoption of that law. As far as I can tell from Mr Aligrudic, there is an amendment to abolish the retroactivity of this law. We'll wait for the discussion to end, see what the law looks like. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1515	Replica, Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1516	About Mr. Svilanovic. When it comes to the retroactivity of this regulation, it does not even exist in the basic proposal. If you read carefully Article 11, you will see that it describes the right, the time of its duration and the way of termination of that right, with one reference to the specificity of Article 2 relating to the right of material security in Article 7. Article 15 states that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication. There is no provision in this Regulation which indicates the retroactiveity of the application of this law in relation to those applying within the meaning of Article 10 of this Act. The amendment that was submitted, I explained it once, I will explain it again, was submitted precisely because it is possible that the formulation given in Article 11 is causing some confusion in this regard. I'm sorry that this confusion has been caused by you, since you're a professor of law school, you shouldn't have succumbed to that kind of confusion. So it's not about any retroactiveness of this regulation, and the amendment that has been submitted has only been submitted to make the text clearer and to remove any misunderstanding in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1517	The word comes from MP Nikola Novakovic, G17 plus, followed by MP Djordje Mamula, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1518	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to your great surprise, and mine personally, the G17 plus is one of the legislators of this law. Why? It's pretty simple. We are not yet, and in the future we will not participate in the burning and reconciliation of some old accounts, deeply convinced that we will not even make bills that we will not pay ourselves, and this is our lordship which is exactly the new entry into this assembly that provides us with a comfortable security. We'd sort this out differently, but we're certainly not gonna be a problem with this kind of matter being regulated by law. We think it's on the Democrats. It is democratic to support everything that is legal and professional, simple and possible. I have to remind you, without any particular legal co-location here, that the international regulation is in advantage of the internal rule and that this is essentially the first step in this House, in which we have shown that in our own heads, the Hague has finally become a reality. We are certain to have many other legal and congregation affairs ahead of us regarding our relationship with the International Criminal Tribunal. That's for sure. This whole web of relationships isn't over yet, but this is definitely one of the first steps. What do we from G17 plus see and what are the advantages of adopting a law like this? We see that the state is showing concern for its citizens. For now, it's only about our people in The Hague. I hope that if the matter is realised further, it will also be about our other citizens and citizens. The state, too, because that concern is not a one-way street, opens up the possibility for its citizens to take care of the state. We'll see if this message gets to them. I will personally vote in favour of this law and despite having legal-technical objections, but what defines me for such a decision is the first step, small and really I don't think that it's perhaps an assembly for the state, to finally edit in some future times and other relationships towards the world. Gentlemen from the SRS should not be surprised if they have and have unconditional support from G17 plus for every good, smart and responsible proposal, as well as members of other parliamentary groups and political parties. I don't agree that there is no responsibility for the public word, that there is no responsibility for the idea. And that there is a responsibility, because these are just expressions of a responsible way of thinking. He who thinks responsibly and has responsible ideas and is responsible for every word he says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1519	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1520	I only wanted, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to say something about Mr. Novakovic's exposure, as well as everything that's going on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You'll see, I'll be completely honest and open. Sometime after the December 2000 elections, we from the SRS, who were then MPs in the Serbian Parliament, remember a terrible atmosphere, in which no one talked to anyone, when we, as opposition MPs, appeared behind a pay phone, was mostly shouting, bullshit, sometimes worse and uglier things. Of course, we endured it, manly and courageously opposed dictatorships, and eventually became the most convincing political party. I just want to tell Mr. Novakovic, we're not surprised, but that's why Mr. Novakovic is in opposition to the SRS today, so the Serbian government has a first-time opposition that doesn't destroy the state. For the first time, you've got people who don't want to destroy the state for the sake of party interests, to destroy everything that's of national and national interest. That's what the government has to take advantage of. It's what any government can and must take advantage of. And because for the first time, you don't have someone who's in your opposition, and they're helping him on the outside and on the side to bring down everything that's key to state institutions, everything that's state bodies and organizations. Therefore, you must act incomparably more responsibly, incomparably different from the previous authorities. It's always in power, not in opposition. If the government is such that it does not persecute the opposition, be sure when the power changes, or when the opposition becomes power, and the government goes into opposition, that this will continue. It would be good for such arches to be instituted. It would be good to rule Serbia, because this would mean a huge change compared to everything we had in the past 15 years, no matter who the government is, no matter who the opposition is. So it would be good not to serve this as an example of how you respect the SRS' proposals, because we think we still have them, and not a little, very good and very important, and on these examples to show that Serbia deserves better, that Serbia can do better, that Serbia's citizens finally deserve to live in a normal and orderly country, in which politicians will not cut off each other's heads the moment they come to power. We are ready today, and that may have been possible for you to notice colleagues from DOS - no matter what they've done to us, no matter what they've done to us in the past four years, and there have been criminal charges against our former ministers... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... finishing... Because of the distribution of bonuses to workers from presentation accounts, and not the biggest thieves were prosecuted, there were the most difficult media chicans on both RTS and on all other TVs, which in an indirect or direct way the government controlled - and we are not going to participate in the hacks on them, in any kind of fierce media campaign against them. Because we think it's time and that's why we're telling you that Serbia is ruled by normal people, that we have a normal political scene in Serbia. The government is changing thanks to good and bad programs, good and bad implementation of the program, and not thanks to the fact that you're going to tell us now "you resented me here and here, take off his head and nothing more." That is why we hope that, Mr. Novakovic, and that kind of cure your party has since 2000, since it has been in power alone, understands, understands, sees and learns and will behave differently in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1521	The People's Messenger, Djordje Mamula, has the word, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1522	The proposal for this law should be supported. Our country is a member of the UN, the Council of Europe. It has ratified many international conventions on human rights, has the Constitutional Charter of the State Community and the Constitutional Charter of Human Rights, under which the level of human rights and freedom cannot be abolished, can only be increased. In this way, I think we're approaching a civilized world and we're respecting some arguments that have been highlighted before. First of all. I think it is very important that the law allows the UN tribunal indictees to have the same status as the prosecutor as the party in the proceedings. The fact that so far the defenders have been allowed to obtain data from the state archives, if they have received, is commendable, but this practice cannot be the basis for the rights of the defender to defend its client; we need to regulate it by law, because in this area we should neither be the state of the government's mercy but the state in which the law rules. Therefore, all defendants and their defenders must have equal access to all state archives, i.e. evidence, and not to unilaterally assist the prosecutor, Mrs. Carly del Ponte, who, in several cases, before the start of certain proceedings, said that the defendant would receive life imprisonment. You know, when the D.A. says before the trial starts, what will be the penalty, it doesn't have a professional distance and a professional relationship. With regard to the rights that have been called here in the area of social rights, I also believe that the area should be governed by law and not depend on the government's mercy whether someone will receive 200 euros, or 250, etc., but must go from the budget. Of course, I don't agree with orchestrated propaganda, which goes through a piece of the press, so tax bonds will be damaged. Let me tell you something, that we're not fooling ourselves, we don't have a great position either of our citizens who are in custody and charged with our courts. Don't think it's a great position, so let's just fix the situation of the Hague indictees. And we need to comply with the rules of the continent on which we live. That's why I think this law should be supported. Otherwise, I didn't expect, Mr. Svilanovic, to have you speak to us as the opposition foreign minister. I'm sorry to disappoint you, DSS, but we exist to fulfill our program. You know, don't judge us against yourself, because I don't think you're the gathering headquarters and the center of value that we should all look around for. I also have to tell you that you were on the coalition list in the last term, which has led the war here under a state of emergency company, which has seized the mandates of other MPs; you have forgotten it, I suppose; which had a bill on 90 days of police detention during the war. I have to tell you, it didn't occur to Docianou, Ceausescu's head of the secret police. You know,... Not the Pachep. Pachepa is a Steven Sremac compared to Docianu. Twelve thousand people were arrested during the war. Now there's damages charges coming in, and it's gonna be taxpayers paying, 12 grand, do you know what that means, that 36 people would be charged. So this law should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1523	National MP Goran Svilanovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1524	I just want to tell Mr. Mamuli, the MP and distinguished colleague, just as you said, about 90 days ago, as one element of the law that was passed during the state of emergency, the Civil Union of Serbia was against it. That's what he said publicly, and he formalized it during the negotiations in the National Assembly. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1525	The word has been given by MP Hranislav Peric, SPS, and then by MP Vladimir Homan, G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one or more better law was to be passed as soon as the trial of Serbs in The Hague began. The responsibility for this should be borne by the previous government, as it has denied support for the defence of national interests due to the narrow political interests. Only with the wise defence of the Serbs indicted before The Hague court, with faith in truth and justice, the charges against individuals and our entire country and people have no basis, and such a law should only turn a lie into the truth. With this law, we will only help all Serbs in The Hague to successfully prove only the truth, what was really happening in our premises, to break the lie that the government in the world is blaming Serbs for everything. It is the last time to pass a law like this, because it has justification, perhaps because of the latest developments in Kosovo. Now you can see everything, whether the Cypriots in Kosovo are now cleaning Kosovo from Serbs for Slobodan Milosevic's sake. False witnesses from Kosovo, who testified against Slobodan Milosevic, were leaders and commanders in the latest action of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and genocide committed against Serbs. You'll say what Kosovo has to do with this law. I'm going to quote just one statement from the criminal, he testified in The Hague, which says, "I don't know how many people I killed, because I was on the front line, and everyone who was at my sight, when I shot, fell, but I don't know if they were dead. I aimed at Serbian police officers, soldiers and members of the paramilitary forces." This is June 6th 2002, testifying at the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, in The Hague, said Šukri Buja, the former commander of the fourth Kosovo Protection Corps zone. What are we talking about here? What is The Hague Court? What is The Hague court when such criminals are accepted as witnesses. In The Hague, only Serbs are tried. In The Hague, Serbia's military, Serbian police, Serbian politicians and Serbian generals are tried, directly giving the Shiptars the strength to banish Serbs from Kosovo and make an independent state. Because they say -- now is the time, Serbs must not fight because they will all end up in The Hague. As far as this law is concerned, it is a constitutional obligation for the state to protect its citizens from courts abroad. We do not recognise the court in The Hague and believe that all trials should be held before our courts in the country, as the minister of justice recently said, because it would be much cheaper for the country itself. It means that all Serbs that the state has agreed to send to The Hague and promised to defend themselves from freedom, the state has kept its promise and asked The Hague court to return these people to the country immediately. If the Hague court judges a violation of human rights, it should not violate human rights itself, but that the state request the immediate release of all Serbs from The Hague to defend itself from freedom. As for the current situation in Kosovo, I propose to the government, current ministers, that they do not sign anything about Kosovo, because the water returns to flow where it ran, and the devil always comes for his own, and the truth can only be late, but always comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1527	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1528	I don't want to bother you, ladies and gentlemen, or speak only to speak. However, I have received material, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can take Article 220 of Rule 1 or Article 221 which states that the MP has the right to request a notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, etc. from the authority of the authority on which they are headed, which is necessary for the exercise of the function of the Members of Parliament. What's this about? In fact, we received material, or an invitation letter from the International Monetary Fund, which comes to him from the International Monetary Fund. You see, ever since we started controlling what you're doing, we've gotten everything and everything. Here it says: The Office of Permanent Representative (and writes to Mr Markovic) of the IMF in Serbia-Montenegro wants to inform you that the department of Washington is already organising a traditional seminar for country MPs in the transition of Southeast Europe. The presence of MPs from Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Kosovo and Serbia-Montenegro is expected. I'm just looking for an explanation, and I've heard that someone has made a decision that some of our representatives are going to go to this miracle, I'm only interested in whether they're going to be there with colleagues from the state of Kosovo, or whether they're going to pretend like they haven't even seen them or I don't know what it is. I would ask Mr. President to give me an answer and tell us what kind of state or country it is for him. I have not heard that it is internationally recognised, and I have heard even less that the state of Serbia has agreed to such a thing. I hope that no one will be determined to participate in anything that accepts the state of Kosovo or the country of Kosovo, however anyone will, and I expect that by the end of the working day Mr. President of the Assembly inform us whether we may have accepted that we participate in this with the state of Kosovo or not. If we did not, did we send them a protest letter, just in accordance with the resolution that we brought together, that is, whose text we put together, and later voted unanimously. I think that would be in line with that decision, as well as with the principles of mutual respect here in the Serbian Parliament. It would not be good if 82 members of the SRS had no information that some of you were sitting with representatives of the state of Kosovo. Then obviously, we would be misinformed about your real intentions compared to our southern Serbian province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1529	I think the president of the National Assembly, Mr Markovic, will answer that question upon your return to the presidency. We're moving on. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Homan, G17 plus. After him and also the last registered speaker is MP Zivorad Smiljanic, SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1530	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here that G17 plus has the willingness to support this idea which is expressed by this bill. As we can see, there is a broad consensus here in the Assembly to pass this law. We can interpret it one way or another, and what's for sure is that the G17 plus parliamentary group is going to consider this law of several basic principles. It's so-called. Presumption of innocence, so no one is guilty until a legally enforceable verdict is established. Then, all citizens of this country have the same rights. What is most important about us, which is why such a law should be passed, which is that we hope that the adoption of such a law will speed up the decision of those indicted before The Hague tribunal and charged with voluntary surrender and to go to The Hague court and prove their innocence. I said there was a broad consensus on this in the Assembly, and I have to warn the Assembly and MPs of some things that have not been laid down in this law and are not well done. Namely, this proposal gives greater rights to the accused and members of his family who are in The Hague than those who are accused here. There are some excuses, of course, for The Hague is not here, but I would just like to comment on a few things that are here in this law. In Article 4, the special salary of the defendant in a working relationship shall be determined at the level of the salary of the employees of state bodies with a coefficient of 8.80. You know exactly what it means and what it's worth. Then, Article 7, the right to material security has a member of the family of the accused also at the height of the salaries of employees in state bodies with a coefficient of 8.80. What's most interesting is that in Article 8, we have a fee for accommodation in height that is recognised to employees of state authorities on official travel abroad. It's a compensation for the defendant's family's housing to go on a visit. This fee, which is recognised to employees of state authorities on an official journey abroad, has been fixed on a flat-rate basis, therefore, according to certain criteria depending on where they travel. The families of the accused do not have the need and obligation to deliver the hotel bill and to see the actual cost they had by visiting their family member, they have already established in advance how much the state will make up for it. There may be some abuses, if desired. Then, Article 11, I would not comment now, as I see it, there are many amendments besides mine that will prevent that suspicion or the real possibility of a return to the facts of this law. I would say just one thing about Article 13, where it is said that the funds for this are often heard minimally, and we do not know exactly how much but minimally, are provided at the appropriate position of the Government in the Republic of Serbia's budget. What position is that, we don't know, and if the Ministry of Finance has been consulted, we don't know. We know it's been budgeted, and if that position is already in place by then, I'm not sure. So that's unspeakable. There's a possibility here, and there's no difference between the defendants. There are people who really need help, and there are people like some who are mentioned here and who don't need that help, but there's a suspicion that they can all use that help. In the end, I would like to say that these things have to change in this law and therefore we need to pay attention to the amendments that follow us. I repeat, G17 plus is in principle for this idea, and above all for the reason I mentioned it, which is, I hope, since the state is now providing funds if this law is passed. I appeal to all who are accused before The Hague, and are not in The Hague, who have been charged, and do not wish to travel to The Hague and prove their innocence, let them go and prove themselves innocent. The state will give them all the help and their families will be safe in their existence. Indeed, they no longer have the excuse to burden this country, but to help it now that the state is ready to help them and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1531	The word is given by MP Zivorad Smiljanic, SPS, and this is also the last application speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1532	Dear MPs, we know that The Hague tribunal has founded the UN. I have often been in the federal parliament to listen when they spoke, since we are UN members, we must respect everything the UN has brought. Unfortunately, the UN today thinks it's in a worse position than the People's Society before World War II. Fascist Germany couldn't use the Society of Nations for its own purposes, so it wasn't even a member. Today, the UN, which passed the Hague tribunal law and founded it, is in such a position as to remember in 1994 when Madlen Albright said: "Whom we pay the man must listen to us. "Then Butros Galli was the UN Secretary-General. He was replaced by Kofi Annan, but how. In 1994, Butros Galli was scheduled to sign NATO's approval to bomb Republika Srpska. Butros Gally didn't do it, but that's why he signed Kofi Annan, who was his deputy. Therefore, on the basis of Kofi Annan's signature, without a United Nations decision, Republika Srpska was bombed. What Butros Galli is responsible for, unfortunately, and the United Nations, is not only for many innocents, killed by Republika Srpska. Butros Galli is also responsible for 63 Italian UNPROFOR soldiers, who were in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of which, 19 died from radiation. Therefore, the bombing with the impoverished uranium was approved. I would like to say one more thing: The United Nations has made decisions on the embargo against some countries, such as ourselves, Iraq, Libya. To make a decision on the embargo against a country is a crime against humanity. Most of those who get hurt by it are children. We have one irony, that we experienced, when we were bombed, first, we didn't expect it, we didn't even hope for it, but we experienced an injustice in which more than 3,000 civilians were killed. What is scariest, more than 200 Albanian and Serbian children were killed. A great friend of children and UNICEF, who are within the United Nations and who are fighting for the rights and protection of children, Danny Kay once said: "All the treasures of this world are not worth one tear of a child." Not only did we have children killed during the bombing, more than 200 children were maimed, more than 1,000 children remained orphans of war, and many tears were shed precisely because of this injustice that the United Nations has done to us, under the leadership of Secretary General Kofi Annan. The scariest statement during the bombing was that killing children was collateral damage. Killing children and calling it collateral damage is the biggest crime that has been committed by NATO aggressors to our country. When was the state leadership declared war criminals in Yugoslavia? I would like to remind you that NATO bombing began on 24 March, and Serbia's leadership was declared war criminals on May 25th 1999, after two months of unfeeling bombing and when they realized that Serbia would not be so easily subdued. I want to remind you that Milosevic and Karadzic were both in Dayton in 1995. The war was then ended in both Croatia and BiH. None of them are detained or arrested for genocide against Bosnians or Croats. Therefore, they were declared war criminals when they defended themselves from NATO bombing for two months and when Serbia did not kneel, as they expected to in a week. Why are our people in The Hague? First of all, for the defence of Kosovo. The defence of Kosovo and ethnic cleansing in Kosovo has lasted since the Prizren League, which was held 100 years ago, when it was said that Kosovo should be Albanian and that ethnic cleansing has never stopped. The last ethnic cleansing that happened reminds, not to remind, is the same scenario that the Croats performed when it came to "Blash" and "Storm"; especially "Glass", which realized the idea they had given them, which is a fried country. In Medak's pocket, everything's ruined, everything's burned. According to the same scenario, it is now being done in Kosovo, where 35 Serb shrines were burned. It sounds funny when they say they're going to rebuild the 13th and 14th centuries monasteries. The heritage of the world has been destroyed, but unfortunately, with the support of UNMIK, who did nothing to protect the Serbian people, as he did nothing when he was in Republika Srpska during the "Blash" and "Storms", but simply by inspiration, consultants and organisers of these military actions. So the Croats say, "Why should we go to The Hague when they have organized all this for us?" What have they been doing in the past, first of all, the Ship's terrorists? They killed, cleaned and tortured every captured Serb soldier and officer beastly. You may recall when Belgrade Radio Television released a medical student's testimony, it was about an Albanian who studied in Belgrade and was caught as a co-worker of the UCK. He was talking back then on television, a lot of people might remember what they were doing with captured soldiers. Just one example: a police captain was captured by Albanians and held in a torture camp; his ears were cut off, his eyes were dug, his full organ was cut off, and then he was a medical student until he was beastly killed. That's what the Ship's terrorists were doing with the prisoners. The biggest cowardice of the DOS government was in the federal parliament itself when we passed the Amnesty Act. That's when 1,300 Shipatarian terrorists were released. I asked if any of the DOS authorities in the federal parlamett had the courage to ask what happened to 1,500 kidnapped Serbs before we let these Shipatarian terrorists go. (President: Theme. ) Do we have the right at least to ask what is wrong with the fate of the abducted Serbs in Kosovo and to condition the release of Cypriot terrorists with the truth about 1,500 abducted Serbs, without saying that 1,500, since UNMIK was created, has been killed in Kosovo. No one had the courage to say that, no one had the courage to ask. They're attacking us for all sorts of things, but we've arrested the Ship's terrorists, tried, didn't beastly kill them like they did. In the war of 1999, we showed that what Marko Miljanov said was "the heroism is to defend itself from the stronger, and the humanity is to defend the weaker than itself". The heroism was to defend ourselves against the strongest alliance that ever existed in the world, and the humanity was not to kill the Ship's terrorists, but to condemn them, and then the DOS government passed the Amnesty Act. The same terrorists are killing again in Kosovo today. (President: Please stick to the agenda theme. ) Finally, let me say that it is hypocritical, that it is unserious, that it is unfair to say – let them go to The Hague, and let them prove their innocence. Whoever goes to The Hague has no forgiveness. The Hague has been invented to judge us, to justify NATO's aggression against Serbia, and to have NATO amnesty from the enormous compensation that Serbia should pay for it. We have been punished and our people have been punished for example throughout the world, whoever rebels against the NATO Alliance will be punished as our leaders have been punished. It's an example to everyone in the world who's rebelling that's how it's gonna go. (President: Time. In the end, let me tell you, we're talking about law, the law, the United Nations. Today in the world there is a law of the stronger, the law of the jungle, the law of the topless, but what He said: "Whose law lies in the topless, his traces smell like inhumanity."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1533	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1534	Dear fellow MPs, the SPS will support the bill's proposal, discussed today by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe it has special importance, above all in the fact that the law confirms the positive attitude of the Serbian state towards its citizens in The Hague. As a citizen has obligations to the state, so logically and the state has obligations to the citizens, and we believe that this law is one small contribution from the state to make the citizen who is in The Hague, who is accused, of course, with respect for the principle that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, can help make his defense as good as possible. The second importance of the law is that it shows that Serbia will finally defend itself before The Hague tribunal against fabricated accusations and already delivered verdicts. So far, Serbs have been delivered to The Hague as culprits in advance, as people who have done what they are accused of, as people who have been convicted, only have to be handed over and the matter itself is over. It's a shame this law hasn't been passed so far. That would be the two-way communication. We believe that the defendants, the people who were there, would certainly have had better than this law. There is no particular need to overemphasise, as some colleagues do, the material significance of this law, because there is not much material here. This law has a political dimension. We are aware that everyone in this assembly does not, of course, have such a relationship with the law, but it is good that there is agreement of most parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, most of the parties to which Serbia has supported the previous elections, around this law. This, first of all, I mean given the importance of state and national, which the trial of people in The Hague has in the state of Serbia. Here today, during the afternoon debate, we heard a failed attempt to separate the trial story in The Hague from the fate of the Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia lawsuit against the SRJ, that is, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. There were even words about how this trial of the lawsuit is a proof of some legal capacity of our team, and none of the people who said that did not tell the Serbian citizens what was heard from the mouth of the chief legal adviser then SRJ, and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, that the outcome of the Milosevic trial would define the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's lawsuit against us. So, the outcome of this trial is pending, so of course, the outcome of this second trial will be known. The state should take care of its citizens, and this is widely known, especially those who are abroad. The people who are in The Hague, who are accused, have not been convicted. The previous government, and it goes not only to their harm, but also to the damages of the Serbian state, unfortunately divided the citizens into similar and inappropriate, to those who corresponded to their interests and to those who did not, and of course to such a attitude towards people, they built the state's policy. It should not be forgotten, at least we Socialists will not forget that Slobodan Milosevic has been kidnapped by a foreign decision, against the constitutional decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It should not be forgotten that they arrested people, at a time of emergency, in order to order the indictment, the indictment arrived and the people were delivered; it means they were arrested on one charge, and delivered to The Hague on another. It should not be forgotten that the DOS people themselves, probably in writing with Karl del Ponte, have announced all these accusations, should not forget that they were the main speakers of such a policy here in Serbia. It should not be forgotten that Carla del Ponte has claimed that she has so many demands that Serbs are arrested that she cannot simply achieve the whole job. It should not be forgotten that DOS helped The Hague prove charges against these people and against Serbia. How did he help? Simply, making deals with the defendant, sending those defendants, Carly del Ponte, with a premeditated outcome. If you look at the contents of this provision, which is within the jurisdiction of the National Council, you will see that simply those who surrender voluntarily can count on a certain mercy of the state, but of course only those who agree. The deal wasn't there. Those delivered were, of course, deceived, but the general damage to all of this was the state of Serbia. Serbia will have that damage not only today, but also tomorrow. Without intending to go deeper into the contents of what is happening there, it does not take great wisdom to assess what process is being conducted in The Hague, that it is a process against the state, against the people. The tragedy of Serbia, the tragedy of Serbian citizens, is that in the past three years there has been a negative relationship towards individuals, according to the Socialist Party of Serbia, and thus also towards the state of Serbia. Who really wants to see what caused the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina is enough to read Davor Perinovic's book, the first HDZ president in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they will see what agreements were made between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia to break Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia. Who wants to know what happened in Kosovo and Metohija is enough to find out what happened in Račka as an imaginary cause for the bombing of Yugoslavia, not to mention everything that happened in previous years, which was the fight against terrorism: Markale, Vase Miskina, etc. It's illusory, at least some MPs, to talk about it. Why? For the simple reason that the content of their policy was for Serbia to be accused in advance, i.e. to be given all these measures in advance. When you look at the other side of the story why these people who are accused are not tried in our country, for the simple reason that our judiciary has been systematically destroyed by DOS. On the one hand, you make a deal, you send people there, you go out to meet the international community, and on the other hand, you deliberately incapacitate the domestic justice system so that people, who are accused, can be tried. Today we have heard more objections to the content of this law by those who, of course, have this negative relationship. They primarily refer to this alleged material side. Once deeper into the content of this law, it will be seen that this side is absolutely minor compared to what is happening in The Hague. Namely, the circle of persons who can go there is limited, and the length of their stay, and as far as they can go, but the most important thing here is objectively not materially supported, and this is called obtaining evidence, a statement from witnesses, which the defendant has the right to propose for the purpose of his defense. Namely, those who are more familiar with the content of the work and with the defence of the defendants know that there is a need to conduct a series of talks with witnesses in preparation for the defense, that it is necessary for these people to come from the interior, possibly to stay a little longer, that it is necessary to type it up. The statements are 30 to 120 pages per witness, and that needs to be translated. It takes a lot, a lot of doing all the defense stuff to make the defense more effective. Unfortunately, it's being ignored, there's been some cost being mentioned, and no one's going to say it, and it's good to get a report from the MUP, how many people have been hired for the security of DOS leaders over the past three years. There's one piece of information that's a little something to talk about. During the state of emergency, almost every MP from the DOS Assembly of Serbia had his official escort. They must ask the Serbian citizens what the man was for if they were doing their job, and it is obvious that the fear was enormous and that the conscience was not pure without mentioning a number of cars, security, the use of privileges for which there is no legal basis, not now. When you look at the whole story, those costs are really minor. If we look at how minor these costs are in relation to the essence of the trial and what that trial can produce in the Republic of Serbia, then we come up with a frantic data. The outcome of the trial of Slobodan Milosevic and other people indicted in The Hague will be defined, according to the chief legal adviser, and if he is expert he should be trusted, the fate of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia's lawsuit against us. That means, gentlemen, compensation for war damage and DOS has done everything possible to meet The Hague tribunal and nothing to protect its country and its citizens. This law is a small contribution to trying to help the citizens who are accused, who are in The Hague, at least a little help to defend themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1535	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I hereby conclude the initial search and, in accordance with Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. There are a few amendments. I'd like to ask you to finish this. At the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Nikola Novakovic withdrew the amendment submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. National MP Nikola Novakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. He's not present. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zarko Obradović and Bojan Kekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The legislative committee has not spoken of a new amendment to this article. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bojan Kekic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1536	Fellow MPs, amendment to Article 2 of the Law, applies primarily to persons who have the status of family members. It won't mean anything if the amendment is adopted. In essence, only a circle of persons who have the status of family members is increased, and in Article 2 paragraph 1 after – married, single and adopted children – a sentence should be added "their spouses and their descendants in the right line to the first degree of kinship". In both inheritance and family law, such things have been defined. Article 8 of the law defines how many times they can be and how many times they can be, and that's two times four days a month. This amendment only expands and strengthens the tradition in the Serbian people that a grandson can see grandfathers and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1537	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Bojan Pajtic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. National MP Bojan Pajtic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Misa Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. National MP Misa Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1538	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, starting with the obligation of the state to take care of all its citizens, in this case citizens in custody at the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, whether they went there voluntarily, whether they were detained first, and then ordered the indictment for them, and carried out or kidnapped, counter-suppressed, as is the case with Slobodan Milosevic. The bill shows the intention of the state to begin its obligation to carry out. It is good that there is broad unity for this, and it is interesting and important to announce that Serbia shows this unity on several occasions. And this time it was shown that this is a state interest, and it is a state interest, and the SPS has always joined those who put state interest above the party's, unlike some parties that have proved to be more important to them today than the state. Given that our citizens are in custody outside the country, that the costs are enormous, I suggested on behalf of the SPS Group the amendment to Article 5, which adds a new position 2 which is said to be – the defendant has the right to pay a flat-rate fee of one average monthly earnings per witness, in case of security and evidence provided through witnesses of the defence. The amount of the flat-rate fee referred to in Article 1 shall be paid to the accused, or to the member of his family, to whom he or she is authorised. The maximum cost the defendant's family has is related to the costs of recruiting defenders, to the cost of collecting witness statements from the defence. These costs do not cover only the costs provided for in Article 6. A bill of law, but many others. For example, witnesses of defence need to cover the costs of transport to the place where they give a statement to a legally qualified person who provides expert assistance to the defence, then any costs of accommodation in that place, if necessary, for the purpose of giving a statement, shall be in place for a few days. Then, the cost of dactylographic and translation services. Statements must be translated into English or French, as the official languages of the court, as well as the costs of travel of witnesses to The Hague, for prior talks with the defendant and agreements regarding testimony before the International Court, since the court bears the costs of staying a witness only when it comes to testify, but not the costs of preparing the testimony. These costs, when it comes to witnesses from Serbia-Montenegro, are far greater than the amount proposed by this amendment, especially when it comes to foreign witnesses. In addition, significant means should be provided for the development of defence expertise that is needed in the processes before the International Criminal Court and where it is necessary for defence experts to pay the costs and fees for their production. Since, as a rule, scientists, experts of specific profiles and the like are invited as experts, the costs foreseen for this purpose would at least partially cover the costs of expertise, especially when it comes to foreign experts. By adopting this amendment, the state would essentially demonstrate its intention to care for its citizens, to assist its citizens who are there and to show their interest in defending those indicted against The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1539	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Brance Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1540	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group is a signer and will vote in favour of this law. As regards Article 6, which provides for the right to compensation for the provision of technical assistance, I propose this amendment in order to differentiate the form of professional assistance in the defence of the accused and to specify in this respect the persons on which the defendant is entitled to compensation for the costs and to provide professional assistance in the preparation of the defence. The amendment reads -- Article 6(2), following the word "indictee", adds "and for one of them and the right to compensation for one trip a month, for a visit to the defendant in office of defence of the accused". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1541	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Bojan Pajtic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposaler's representative is not here. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1542	Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this law is not primarily aimed at economic support, but at more political support for the people who are currently being charged and are in front of the UN tribunal. I am aware and important not only that the SPS has supported the adoption of such a law, but that it will be adopted with significant political support in parliament. I am pleased that they will not have the support of those who have extradited and campaigned against all soldiers and police officers who have defended the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, including politicians, as they are constantly accused. Unfortunately, the Serbian people's resistance was confirmed on March 18th and 19th, because they defended Serbs in Kosovo, that this authority would be historically responsible and no one could wash them off, but at least we can help those indicted and are in front of The Hague tribunal. This Article 9 provides that for the cost of communication, the cost of sending packages, the costs of telephone accounts are totaled at a monthly level of 50% of the average salary. That's about 6,000. Imagine now, you need to listen to 300 witnesses, you need to communicate with 300 witnesses, you need to send 300 tapes and 300 materials to The Hague. We suggest that it be an average salary, so it's 12,000. We are not proposing a significant increase, but this increase can significantly help defend the people in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1543	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposaler's representative is not here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1544	Ladies and gentlemen, earlier when I was talking about the law in principle, I said there were a lot of amendments that could fix this law. One of these is this amendment. We heard some of them were wrong earlier, so they thought Article 11 meant retroactiveness, but it doesn't really mean it. I admit, I was wrong. It seems to me that it can be interpreted as retroactiveness. I think the most elegant solution is to delete the position of the first member completely, because it is unnecessary. It is understood that the accused, as well as members of their families, will be able to use the rights that this law gives them from the entry into force of this law. It doesn't have to stand since the first day the defendant was detained, because it can be interpreted as retroactive. We have several suspects who have been in The Hague for several years, and this is the suspicion. If that formulation were to remain, there would be a threat to the backdrop of this law. Also in attitude 2, it is not necessary to stand "for all the time of the defendant's detention", because it can also mean during the time until this law is passed. These amendments do not prejudice the rights of persons subject to this law after the entry into force of this law, so I believe that in this way the most elegant way can remove any doubt about the retroactivity of these laws. There's a suspicion. I don't trust anyone with my word. We heard on the Legislative Committee of Words - believe me, it's not retroactive, etc. I don't trust anyone, it should stand clearly in the law, there's no doubt about it. I think when something is done needs to be done properly, there is no doubt that tomorrow the Constitutional Court will not bring this law down on us. There's something else I'd like to say about this debate. The SRS MPs swear they're most interested in this law, and now half of them are gone, they've gone to lunch. They know how to come here every day to sign up for the journals, and when the quorum needs to be taken out. Hukci as much as you want, that's right. Now that this law is so important to you, you've gone to eat, and we haven't. Come back, don't be demagogues.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1545	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Novakovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposaler's representative is not here. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović wrote a letter withdrawing the amendment to Article 11. It's a bill of law. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposaler's representative is not here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning to say that the aim of the motion was not to introduce the principle of retroactive fact of this law through the provision of Article 11, but certain language doubts could lead to doubt. That is why this amendment has been submitted and submitted, in order to remove any doubt and by accepting such an amendment, it would be clear that the state will not finance the rights of the accused and the rights of the members of the family charged from the moment the defendant is in custody, or from his arrival in the detention unit, but right from the moment of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1547	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposaler's representative is not here. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative - MP Tomislav Nikolic - want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have considered the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint March 30, 2004 as voting day, at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1548	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Sixth Session. We set March 30th as voting day. Please, before we begin to work, we'll determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to put in their MP cards. I find that 175 MPs are present in the O.R. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the rights of the indictee in the detention of the International Criminal Tribunal and members of his family in principle. For 142, against 29, with 25 abstentions, three of the 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the session of the Legislative Committee, MP Nikola Novakovic withdrew the amendment to Article 1. The draft law, and written through the amendment, was withdrawn by MP Bojan Pajtic in an article. Four, five and six. Proposal for a Law and People's MP, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, on Article 11. It's a bill of law. National MP Nikola Novakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 122, abstentioned 15, it did not vote 32, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Bojan Kekic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The legislative committee has not spoken of a new amendment to this article. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 47, 24 abstentions, 34 of 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Misa Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 46, 27 abstentions, 30 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 45, 24 abstentions, there was no 34 vote, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 141, 24 abstentions, 37 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26 against 128, 49 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Novakovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 102, against 67, it did not vote 35 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 141, against 19, with five abstentions, did not vote 36, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Cvetkovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 77, with 20 abstentions, the vote was not 37, of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the rights of the International Criminal Tribunal accused and members of his family as a whole. For 141, against 35, with 20 abstentions, no vote was made by 8 of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the bill on the rights of the International Criminal Tribunal and its family members in custody. Since we've conducted our review and decision-making on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. (The session is closed at 3:55 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1549	THE seventh session of the first Regular Session on 30 March 2004 (The session began at 15.55 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-30-0.u1550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 185 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 189 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Išpanović Istvan, Anita Beretic, Milan Markovic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session in accordance with the agreement reached at the session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need to join the work as soon as possible to prepare for the adoption of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to consider the acts of urgency. A group of 213 MPs suggested that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the accession of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 194, 8 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have pleaded for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Six out of 202 MPs didn't vote for 196. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. A proposal for a decision to join the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Work on the established agenda of the session. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE NEW CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision which has been tabled by 213 Members of the People. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. No one has suggested a long debate. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Vladimir Homan, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After reviewing the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I'm making today a day of voting. We'll approach the vote immediately. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I would like to put to the vote a motion for a decision to join the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For 202, one of 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to join the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulations. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the agenda and decision on it, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004.
