ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I thank all the committees who have accelerated their work during the afternoon so we can begin our session. I especially thank those MPs who drove three hours in the fog today to attend the session. We continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 218 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are enough MPs in the hall and there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Goran Knezevic and Ksenija Milivojevic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, we are moving on to a decision on them, except for the first and second points, of which the National Assembly has already held a vote. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY WELCOME OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECT OF THE ENERGY SECTOR IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. 76 of the 213 MPs were not voted for by 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to invest the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia, in general. 77 of the 219 MPs did not vote for 142. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy Sector Reconstruction Project in the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GROANING OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECT OF SERVES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the draft law in principle and in particular to the proposal for a law on the granting of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank for the financing of the Emergency Health Project, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Health Project, in principle. For 141, 75 of the 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Health Project, in general. For 140, it did not vote 77 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Health Project. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE SERBIA OF THE EUROPEAN RURAL AND RURAL BANK (EPS, PROJECT II) As the National Assembly has conducted a review of the proposal for a law on the granting of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), in principle. For 141, 79 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II), in general. For 137, it did not vote 85 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EPS, Project II). We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANIA CONTRAGRANGEMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY BOOK OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FUND OF THE CITY OF SERBIA CITIZES Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the proposal for a counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project, in principle. For 137, it did not vote 85 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of a counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project in general. For 138, it did not vote 84 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Belgrade City Reconstruction Project. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL ON DANIZING THE CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINANCIAL PROJECT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ELECTROENERGETIC SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on loan from the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project, in principle. For 137, it did not vote 85 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project, in total for 141, did not vote 83, out of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY BOOK OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK FOR THE FINISHING PROJECT OF THE CIVIL VODE - SERBIA Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia, in principle. For 145, it did not vote 82 out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia, in general. For 146, he did not vote 81, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the City Water Project - Serbia. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on free access to information of public importance, in principle. For 144, they did not vote 83, of the 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić withdrew the amendment that she submitted to Article 10. The bill's proposal, as well as the fact that during the search of the Bill's proposal, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić to members 9, 11 and 38. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 139, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 137, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103 against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 140, it did not vote seven out of 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 121, 86 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 133, it did not vote 15 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 114, against 105, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 133, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 19 and 19. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 134, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Becic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 20 and 20. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 133, it did not vote 15 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Mirovic submitted an amendment to the title of the chapter above Articles 22 and 22. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 128, there was no vote of 20, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 127, with 41 abstentions, 12 out of 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 23 and 23. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 121, 29 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 135, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 25 and 25. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 120, 86 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milorad Krstin has submitted an amendment to the title above Article 26 and Article 26. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 133, there was no vote of 16 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 27 and 27. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 135, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 138, 12 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter V, title above Article 29 and Article 29. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 132 abstention, one did not vote 17, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Pai Momcilov submitted an amendment to the title above Article 30 and Article 30. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 31 and 31. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 138, 12 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 132 abstention, one did not vote 23, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 139, 12 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevica Dedjanski submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 34 and 34. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 133, it did not vote 19 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Škrbic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 35 and 35. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 130, with three abstentions, 17 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 134, two abstentions, 14 of the 231 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 37 and 37. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 134, there was no vote of 16 of the 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 136, it did not vote 14 out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Colic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 43 and 43. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 131, 19 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information suggests that this amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of 232 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment to Chapter VII and Article 45. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 138, it did not vote 13 out of 232 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 141, 10 of the 231 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted the amendment to Article 49. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 137, they did not vote 33 out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on free access to information of public importance, in general. For 147, 84 of the 231 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on free access to information of public importance. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - MEETING OF THE MEMBER OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC COMMITTEE ON THE FIELD OF INTERNAL SEARCH OF SCIENCE AND ARTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move to decision-making. I remind you that the National Assembly, at its session of the 10th Extraordinary Session in 2004, held on 24 August 2004, on the proposal of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, selected four members of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest, leaving one more member to be elected, since, in accordance with Article 19(2). The Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, the National Assembly shall elect a total of five members of the Republic Committee. The list includes two candidates: 1st academician Zoran Constantinović, 2nd Dr. Danica Petrovic, director of the SANU Music Institute. We will vote on each candidate on the list individually, and a candidate has been elected who received most of the votes of the MPs present and at the same time the largest number of votes. We're approaching the vote. I am voting on a proposal to elect academicist Zoran Constantinovic as member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interest. For 47, against 29, abstentions 8, 144 of the 228 MPs did not vote. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dr Danica Petrovic, director of SANU Musicological Institute, as a member of the Republic Committee on Conflict of Interests. For 96, against 89, with 12 abstentions, 34 of the 231 MPs did not vote. As a result of the vote, I find that no member of the Republic Committee has been elected to resolve the conflict of interest, since no candidate has received most of the votes of the MPs present and at the same time the largest number of votes. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTS IN THE PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF BELOCATED 19. September 2004. THE year since the National Assembly conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the study committee's education to determine the facts and circumstances in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly held on 19 September 2004 as a whole. For 205, against one, abstention 21, three of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96, paragraph 34. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. First, MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 14 October 2004, at 11:10 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 80(1) and Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 96, against 104, two abstentions, 27 of the 229 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Secondly, MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 14 October 2004, at 11:16 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly had injured the Rules of Procedure by not putting the motion of MP Aleksandr Vlahovic on the basis of the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004 to be doubled. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 107, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Third, MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 18 October 2004, at 16.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 159(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 99, against 111, 14 of the 231 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Fourthly, MP Rajko Baralic, at a session on 19 October 2004, at 22.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 142, against four, with two abstentions, did not vote 83, out of a total of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. (The session is closed at 12.30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7474	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION ON 2 November 2004 (The session began at 12.30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 218 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Knezevic and Ksenija Milivojevic. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda of the session, with only one item, was contained, and that - I am putting the draft agenda in the general vote. For 208, it did not vote 13, out of a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The election of one Serbian-Montenegro Parliamentarian. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF ONE MEETING OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received a list of candidates for the selection of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, made up of the Republic Election Commission, on the basis of a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the second session of the Second Regular Session, held on 14 October 2004, concluded that it had stopped its mandate, before the end of the time at which it was elected, the MP in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, Dragan Ljubojevic, elected on a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, on the day of his death, and thus obtained the conditions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 20. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly has passed the election of a new MP for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, on a proposal from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Before we approach the vote, let me remind you that it is in article 15. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly found that MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly were elected candidates from the list, provided that the list of candidates received most of the votes of MPs at a session attended by most of the number of MPs, and that MPs voted publicly on the list, using an electronic voting system. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that there are enough MPs in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for work and decision-making. We're approaching the vote. I am voting on a list of candidates to elect the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. For 222, four of the 226 MPs did not vote. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the list of candidates received most of the votes of the national MPs present and that the National Assembly has thus decided that a candidate from the list has been elected for MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly -- Goran Jocic. Let me congratulate Goran Jocic on the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly on your behalf and on your behalf. After electing the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, I conclude the third session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. The session is closed at 12.35 pm. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7476	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BITE FOURTH SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 2nd of November 2004 (The first day of work) (The session began at 12.35 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 218 MPs present today. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Goran Knezevic and Ksenija Milivojevic. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 6th, 7th and 13th October 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 6 October and 13 October 2004. For 140, they did not vote 84 out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 6 October and 13 October 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in agreement with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting the act on the agenda in accordance with the urgent procedure, on a proposal to merge the debate and on a proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. A group of 205 MPs suggested putting the bill on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2004, on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7478	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the basis of article 87, as an authorised representative of the Group of Proposers, I allow the Assembly to amend this proposal by voting, but I propose to the Assembly not to discuss the urgent procedure of the Proposal for a Law on the National Assembly because of everything that has happened in the last 10 days in relation to the law in public, because the MPs did not have enough time to review the law, because we did not receive amendments in the Administrative Committee that I expected in relation to this bill and because there are much more urgent matters to be discussed. I therefore propose to the Assembly to remove the "emergency" mark from this bill and to discuss this bill in a better and more favourable atmosphere in the regular procedure, i.e. at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group will not vote for an emergency procedure in passing this law, and supports the proposal for a Law on the National Assembly at the first next session, in a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7479	Thank you. Just one notice. A motion has been put to the vote and in the future, under Article 87, which applies only to the change of the agenda, I will not give a word when the vote is included. So, once again I put the bill to the vote by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7480	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7481	Please, I've already put the bill to the vote, but I've given you my word on the Rules of Procedure. We're unique in this. For six against 194, a abstention of two of the 227 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7482	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I know democracy and procedures hurt the government, but you have to let everything happen here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have, in fact, misinformed the messengers of the people, even prepared not to give words to those who have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure in the future. An emergency procedure proposal is an amendment to the agenda. According to Article 87, the proposing or authorised representative of the proposing group has the right to speak for three minutes and this is no longer up to you. I answered the word in time, and what you say quickly as a machine gun, you don't lift your head off the act you read, it can't lead to me not getting a word when I'm looking for it on time. You're a participant in a session and watch who's looking for a word. Namely, I've been looking for a word entirely by the Rules of Procedure. You gave me your word on the Rules of Procedure. You haven't done anything to me, and don't threaten to give a word to the Rules of Procedure in the future, because then the question arises whether you can make any more decisions at all, a team before the National Assembly has already found that you have already hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7483	Thank you. I am sorry to have to correct you, I am obliged to explain – the National Assembly did not determine that I had hurt the Rules of Procedure, but rather chaired that day at 22.15 hours. Please, I only warned, since during the preparation of this session we had to consult the professional service on what Article 87 refers, and what Article 158, I will tell you. Article 158(4): ‘On any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall decide, without scrutiny, on the establishment of the agenda or during the sitting’. Therefore, only this member refers to an emergency procedure. That's what the job told us. I'm sorry, I'm just passing the notice. The ministry asked that in case a member of 87, when it comes to an emergency procedure, no matter what, I have informed the MPs. Of course, article 87 refers to a change of agenda when proposed, and we will still have that case today. Anyway, thanks for understanding. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed to put an order of urgency on the agenda of the Judges of the General Court and the Special Court of Justice, i.e. a decision on the termination of the jurisdiction of the Judges of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Justice, - a motion for a decision on the termination of the Judges of the General Jurisdiction, - a motion for a decision on the termination of the jurisdiction of the Judge of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, - a motion for a decision on the discharge of the Judges of the General Jurisdiction and - a motion for a decision on the termination of office of the Public Prosecutors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 129, 100 of the 229 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Group of 104 MPs, based on Article 183. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have proposed to place on the agenda of the National Assembly a question of initiate proceedings for the impeachment of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, because he violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and pursuant to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the proposal be considered as an emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 99, v. 127, of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Value Added Tax, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 25, against 113 of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on companies, which has submitted to the National Assembly29, be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. October 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 99, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 39, against 100, a abstentioned one, was not voted 84, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We have a proposal to conduct a joint principle search. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the draft law on the litigation procedure and the Proposal for a Law on the Executive Procedure (points 1 and 2 of the proposed agenda); a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on the Social and Economic Council and the Proposal for a Law on Peaceful Resolution of Working Disputes (points 3 and 4 of the proposed agenda); a joint principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases (points 5 and 6 of the proposed agenda); a joint principled review on the annual accounts of the Commission on Charters of Values of 2003, with a report on business and a report on the authorised auditor and financial plan of the Commission on the regularity for 2004 (points 19 and 20 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted 100, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Miloljub Albianic suggested that, when setting the agenda for the session, the order of the agenda should be changed so that points 5 and 6 of the proposed agenda (Proposal of the Law on Sanitary Control and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of People against Infectious Diseases) become points 3 and 4 and points 3 and 4 of the proposed agenda (Proposal of the Law on the Social and Economic Council and Proposal for a Law on Peace of Work Dispute), becoming points 5 and 6. Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 129, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 93, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for emergency procedure, the merger of debates and the change of order of individual points, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 126, against 81, with two abstentions, there were no 18 votes, of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law on litigation, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for an Executive Procedure Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Sanitary Control Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on publication of publications, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8. Proposal for a Law on Postal Services, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for an e-signature law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a law on public agencies, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a Government Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 13. Proposal for a tourism law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 14. A Bill on Reproductive Woods by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 15 / 15 Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 16. Termination of office, or discharge of judicial office holders, 17. The Statute of the National Bank of Serbia, which was filed by the National Bank of Serbia, 18. The annual accounts of the Securities Commission for 2003, with the Business Report and the Report of the Authorised Auditor, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 19. Commission's financial plan for 2004 for securities, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 20. Proposals for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the chairman of the G17 Plus parliamentary group and the president of the Serbian Renewal Movement - Nova Serbia, 21. The proposal for a law on companies, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As proposals for the examination of acts under emergency procedure have been accepted, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and it is prevented from carrying out its obligation under Article 88. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you, Article 88(2) reads – When the National Assembly assesses that the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, it initiates proceedings for its impeachment. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you have mostly prevented the National Assembly from assessing whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. Today she was at the part of cohabitation. Today, Mr. President, you have personally prevented us from discussing the responsibility of the most irresponsible and unworthy of its function. All this was the butter you all imagined together, and you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, carried out. You have made the impression in public that if this is not proposed by emergency procedure, it will not be on the agenda at all, and you have already agreed that when the proposal comes by emergency procedure, you vote against being included in the agenda by emergency procedure. I now call upon those who have said that these discussions are not afraid, that they are looking forward to this debate, that they are looking forward to a failed referendum in order to make new choices for them to win. Now I ask them why they were against putting this in an emergency procedure. The DSS asks why it is against determining the responsibility of Boris Tadic and his party for everything he has done since the president, especially for two last acts, to create a coalition in Vojvodina with traitors of Serbia, with those that the citizens of Vojvodina do not want in power and what is with this latest statement by Boris Tadic that he is inadmissible to Kosovo and Metohija's independence throughout the territory. Close your eyes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as long as you like, but evil is rolling and getting bigger. We're gonna solve the problem piled up or we're not gonna solve it. Let's get the hell out of here, let some new military junta come along, run the country. People's MPs here have no rights whatsoever. I ask you, Mr. President, to take a break in the work of the National Assembly, because the SRS parliamentary group wants to consult on this uglyness of the National Assembly, about preventing the National Assembly from pleading. We didn't determine whether the President of the Republic broke the Constitution or not. You didn't let us make any arguments. You were afraid of our arguments. If you had the arguments, if we had a good President of the Republic, today would begin the debate, so you would have five words against each of our words. The SRS parliamentary group will now attend the session of its parliamentary club and decide how we will continue to work with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7485	Just for the sake of notification, I must say that I have put the Rules of Procedure to vote for an emergency procedure, and my position is well known and I have no reason to explain it. In any case, I'm not able to take a break, because under Article 94, paragraphs 1 and 2. There are no conditions for that. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Veroljub Stevanovic reported on the business.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7486	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I am advertising the violation of Rule 87 which says, among other things, that the proposed amendments should be opened by a search and that the authorising officer can state the reasons for changing, changing the agenda or supplementing. As SPO MPs, we have proposed to find a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, following an urgent procedure at this session. We wanted to finally remove the great historical injustice and to be led by Josip Broz Tito in the country and the fighters of the Yugoslav People's Army. There are many reasons to pass this law. It is based on historical truth, with great delay advertising invalid ideological lies about General Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic, the Yugoslav army in the country and the Ravnog movement, opening the door to put an end to hatred and division from the tragic civil war in the Serbian people. The historical truth is that the General Staff Colonel of the then Yugoslav Royal Army Dragoljub Mihailovic, 17 April 1941, refuses to accept the military's capitulation. He speaks to the soldiers of the Fast Squad of the 41st Infantry Regiment and says, "I do not recognise capitulation, that word does not exist in Serbian." It immediately issued an order on the battle movement towards Serbia. For Mihailovic are on the move: Captains Milojko Zelelac – called Taras and Petar Damjanović, Marine Franjo Senjak – Croatian from Dalmatia, Jew Jilli Benjamin, captains Miroslav Stankovic and Milenko Reljić, Lieutenant Bozidar Ilic, folk hero Gojko Avaz, supporter Pavle Neskovic, Major Miodrag Palošević and another 30 soldiers. North of Han Pijesk, on the morning of April 26th, these people attack a German motorized column and, after days of fighting Germans and Ustashas, the first guerrillas in the then enslaved Europe cross the Drina and arrive in Serbia. Colonel Dragoljub Mihailovic ordered them to develop two flags: the Yugoslav Royal Army and the 41st Infantry regiment. The squad sang the anthem "God of Justice" and "Oh Serbia". Not far from Baja Basta, May 5, 1941, the troops are surrounded by Germans. After the run and break of the ring, Mihailovic with the guerrillas arrived on the slopes of Suvobor, on Ravno Gora, on the night between May 12th and 13th, where he immediately calls for a universal uprising against the occupiers. At that time, Mikhailovic's arrival at Ravna Gora was launched by NOR, a true People's Liberation War, without ideological, party or standing goals. Already in June 1941, the entire East Herzegovina was a unique front of the riot, the whole of Serbia-Montenegro is being remanded with guerrilla headquarters. The uprising included Lika, Kordun, the Bosnian Krajina... The views of the admiration of all the trampled European nations, Allied armies and capitals in the world were facing Mihailovic and his guerrillas. The historical truth is that on July 4, 1941, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, whose secretary general was Josip Broz Tito, issued a declaration of uprising against the occupiers. It is also true that the communists and their leaders were against the uprising until June 22nd, until the Vermacht attack on the Soviet Union. The historical truth is that the first communist shots were fired on July 7th 1941, in the White Church, not in the occupier, but in the Serbs. This turned the liberation uprising into a civil war and a brother-killing. The historical truth is that Mihailovic did everything to prevent the disaster. The outstretched arm of the cry for the style of two guerrillas was not accepted and all negotiations with Tito failed. Thus, two anti-fascist resistance movements, Mihailovic and Titov, both Yugoslavs by state definition and both majority Serbs by their national composition, turned the fight against occupiers and Ustashas into a mutual slaughterhouse. A war between each other under the occupation and in the middle of the war against the occupiers? That's what happened to us by starting a Bolshevik revolution. During World War II, no other people in Europe were pushed into such an apocalypse. Many Partisans in 1941 had no idea that the revolution was leading to hell. They stood up against fascism and Nazism, to defend the survival of the Serbian people in the Independent State of Croatia, and out of love for Russia and to believe that a system of equality and happiness for all people was built in this great country, they settled under the red party flag and the five-pointers, rejecting the legal state flag and the government whose military minister was General Mihailovic. The communist leadership policy, however, has led them to battle against their own nation, their families and their historical and spiritual roots. The song "I wear a three - horned hat and war against God" was performed by the massacre of the Serbian clergy by the Ustashas who committed the Ustashas, and the call for the extermination of "greater Serbian hegemonism" was translated into the largest sites. Beneath residential settlements, according to the caves of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, there are still mass and unmarked tombs under the stadium. The great crime of decades has been promoted to virtue, lies in truth, hatred in faith. The ideological Bucharests of the winners in civil war, readings, scientific volumes, films, medals, dates, all served, and serves dominantly today, celebrating the brother-in-law and declaring the victims and their offspring as executioners and associates of the occupiers. Sin after sin, it's the greatest sin. For six decades, it has been attacking the Serbian people's consciousness and subconscious that General Dragoljub Mihailovic has gathered around him naked scum, greasy and dirty carnage, spiritual hostage and mental hospitalists. So, they were writers Ivo Andrić, professor Aleksandar Bajt, writer Dragisa Vasic, criminal law professor Radoje Vukcevic, Professor Mita Djordjevic, son of Duke Misic Major Aleksandar Misic, Major Pavle Djurisic, political champions Adam Pribićevic and Zivko Topalovic, commander of the First Ravno-Gravo Korpus Zvonimir Vukkovic, officers De Roko and Bojović, General Milorad Trifunović, lawyer Stevan Moljević. The historical truth is that the German occupier has issued an APB for both Mihailovic and Tito, vowing the same prize for the heads of both: one hundred thousand German Reichsmarcks in gold. (President: Please finish. ) The historical truth is that the vast majority of prisoners and killed in Belgrade camps in Banjica and Simisto belonged to the Yugoslav army in the country or were co-workers of the Ravnogor movement. The historical truth is that from 1941 to autumn 1944, eight major occupation offensives were launched against General Mihailovic's forces, and from autumn 1944 to May 1945, in many battles, the Yugoslav Army in the country was the target and victim of combined coups by the occupation, Ustasha and Partisan forces. Lijevce Polje is also a symbol of such a satran of Mikhailovic's army, then abandoned by both major war allies and governments in London and the Yugoslav King himself. The historical truth is that many major victories by Mihailovic's forces over the occupation and Ustashas, such as the Visegrad operation in the fall of 1943, are attributed to Tito's guerrillas. The historical truth is that Western allies, under the orders of Tito and his command, and with the aim of destroying national forces and preparing for the triumph of the country's war, massively bombed Belgrade and increasing cities in Serbia-Montenegro during the course of the killing and severely wounded tens of thousands of civilians. Under the big deal, Yugoslavia was determined a Bolshevik post-war fate, which is why those who did not want communism in their country are so cruelly punished. The historical truth is that Western allies have confessed to sin and that US President Harry Truman in 1948 posthumously decorated General Mihailovic, giving him the "Legion of Merit", the highest medal that America gives to foreigners. It was too late for Mihailovic and his army and for our country and national destiny. From Galovic's field near Prajan, where General Mihailovic was built by a war airport, the last Allied airmen took off in December 1944. Only they could report on Serbia's terrible Crucifixion in which mass shooting of communist opponents was declared a routine "removing of black spots". Such “points” by the end of 1945 were more than 100,000. Such a "black spot" became General Mihailovic himself, sentenced to death in a mounted trial and shot in secret, that we do not know where, at dawn of July 17, 1946. The historians now know what would have happened if the civil war or his outcome had not been. We'd be winning again in 1918. Communism and all post-war crimes would be gone, and Yugoslavia, as a Federation or confederation, would be placed in Europe's leading states and democracies. It is estimated to have some 30 million people living in it today. Yeah. That's what it would be. The bloody collapse of the country at the end of the 20th century, or everything else that happened to us, and it still wouldn't happen. History, however, cannot be changed. What we can and must do is change the system of ruling lies and build Serbia's future on the truth. It's too late for the dead, but not for today living and not yet born. Therefore, this law does not challenge any existing right to members of the Partizan movement and their families, which spring from the fight against the occupiers, against fascists and Nazis in World War II. This law gives only those rights, on the same basis, to members of the Yugoslav Army in the country and the rightful movement. The Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on 2 October 2003, in general, reminded us of this fact, equalised members of the People's Liberation Front and the Yugoslav Army in the country. Serbia must not be welcomed in 2005, when the whole world will mark the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism and Nazism, with ideological and anti-national lies about General Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic, the Yugoslav Army in the country and the Ravnogorski Movement. The vast majority of Serbia was with Mihailovic and Mihailovic. The ideological and vengeful anathema was thrown at that Serbia 60 years ago, the anthema is both on Serbia today and on our folk history. Truth, reconciliation, future. That's the essence of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I had to read this argument. We, as SPO MPs, will propose this law before each session by emergency procedure. I think after this explanation, it's clear to everyone why. Mr. President, I've advertised a violation of article 87 knowing that you'll be calling on article 158 and that you're absolutely right. That is why I thank you once again, in my name and in the name of the Members of the SPO, for the attention and for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7487	Thank you. For those who need clarification, I already said in the previous part of the session: when it comes to a decision on an emergency procedure, it cannot be referred to as Article 87, but only Article 158. At the same time, I have now paid attention, when it comes to Article 87, which concerns the addition and modification of the agenda, he predicts that the act can be addressed exclusively by the promoter of change. I apologize to everyone, it's my fault, but the fourth attitude says that participation in the search could take up to three minutes. So, if someone reports in accordance with Article 87, only the proposer and exclusively for three minutes. Mr. Obradovic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7488	I would like to thank Mr Markovic for being able to address the National Assembly with a subsequent analysis of the Rules of Procedure. Today I submitted a proposal on amendments to the law on added value. I will not deal with major historical issues or major political issues of importance for Serbia. Behind this name – changes and additions of value added tax are hidden three simple things. I considered it my moral, political and parliamentary obligation to say a few words to the MPs about it. I suggested, I want the MPs to know that, to abolish the tax at a special rate, for books, for monograph editions, and for textbooks. It's a simple one, it seems to me to be a huge number of people in Serbia, a very important topic, an area. I am sorry that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today did not recognise the need to discuss the law and abolish the value added tax. These days, during the Book Fair, many of you were participants in the fair and heard about the problems that those people are dealing with are publishing books. We, as MPs, representatives of the people, need to talk about the problems of those who use books, the problems of ordinary people, who, if they want to read the book, have to buy it, and the value added tax at a special rate that is set for books, textbooks and monographs is something that additionally burdens the price of the book. I suggested that the Assembly discuss it. The congregation didn't recognize the need. I am very sorry about that, and this is not an honor to those who have both been officially and off the record that they will support the Assembly’s statement and that they too have the need for this Law to be considered and adopted. Thank you to Mr Markovic for voting in favour of this bill, even though he did not pass, but, for the sake of example, nothing disastrous would happen to the revenues in the budget and that the proposal was adopted. I deliberately singled out books, textbooks and monographs only because I think there is an interest, a need, and a loss in the budget is not significant, and that this law could be considered, then adopted. This solution is not unknown to European countries. Here, we will now have a set of law on justice, so we will constantly rely on the legal system of the European Union. That solution already exists in five, six European Union countries. There is also one country, which is our neighbour, in Croatia, which also brought this book tax at a special rate of 8%, and then it was abolished. So there's a solution that could have been accepted. Finally, in order not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and time, I will continue, in line with my business opportunities, to continue to ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to declare this bill. Of course, I expect that at the next session, the book, textbooks and the like will be of interest. the freedom of this value added tax to be of interest to most MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since I am fully convinced that it is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7489	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Petrovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7490	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure, since Mr Nikolic, who is also president of the Democratic Party, has called here irresponsible. The president of the Republic called on Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. He did it by estimating that it was the best state interest. The Democratic Party fully supported the policy of the President of the Republic. Which is why other MPs, MPs of other parliamentary groups, did not vote to put this initiative on the agenda, and if they wanted to, they would explain it. It is obvious to the laymen, and let alone those who know the constitutional law, of course, the MPs whose job it is, that the President of the Republic acted in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the powers that come from the Constitution. It is entirely on the other hand to question the right of the president of the Republic of Serbia to lead politics and to take political stances. That is why the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group voted against putting the initiative on the agenda as an emergency procedure. What is the position of the Democratic Party, and it is made public, is that we have seen that there is political will here, that there is a majority for such a procedure to be regarded as unconstitutional, the Democratic Party would not be a liability to present such an assessment to the Serbian citizens and that in a referendum they declare whether or not the President of the Republic acted under the Constitution. It is obvious that such political will does not exist and that it is a good use of time in this House, that it is a sign that political life is being rationalised in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7491	Thank you. Just a moment, according to the Rules of Procedure - Mr Dacic and Mr Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7492	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I would like to discuss an initiative to launch the evaluation procedure that Serbian President Boris Tadic has broken the Constitution and initiate proceedings for his impeachment, saying that on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, which was otherwise the signator of this initiative together with the SRS, I will propose and ask the president of parliament to meet the heads of parliament on the further fate of this initiative. I am not sure that the Rules of Procedure clearly regulates whether this initiative, which has been rejected today, will be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure, whether it will be discussed in a regular procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Especially since we've already had one meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs, and then there have been different interpretations. I think that this issue should be considered very quickly and all possibilities should be established by the Rules of Procedure, which clearly distinguishes between an emergency and a regular procedure, but also clearly and decidedly, does not talk about what procedure should be initiated by the President of the Republic. Does today's rejection of an initiative to be placed on the agenda by emergency procedure mean that the initiative has been rejected or will be discussed in a regular procedure? Please, we need to consult on this. You know that DS's position on these consultations, as Bosko Ristic casts it, otherwise it was certainly to be discussed whether it was a regular or urgent procedure. After the meeting, Proposer Tomislav Nikolic proposed an emergency procedure to put it on the agenda as soon as possible, but it is not explained until today. That's why I called in my word. Does today's refusal to put on the agenda for an emergency procedure mean rejecting the initiative or will it come to the agenda on a regular basis? That is why consultation is necessary, and I have answered the matter of the Rules of Procedure. It is obvious that today a new practice is being established to launch a debate on the agenda, which has existed before and which the DS has abolished because we, both in the Federal Assembly and in the previous meetings, have been used to open discussions on all these issues. As for Boris Tadic, he does not need an impeachment initiative. The results of the elections and the response of Serbs participating in the Kosovo and Metohija elections are a clear message as to how many Serbs support his policy. This was just a formality, I think. So I think it would be good if there were no legal misunderstandings in the Rules of Procedure, in the Constitution, about the fate of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7493	Thank you. Now the word has Dr. Rade Jovic, MP, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, today was to be the Law on the National Assembly. The National Assembly, as one of the foundations, of the pillars of state arrangement, is obviously not worth the attention. We easily refused to do so on the agenda. The question now arises whether 205 MPs, who signed the initiative to break their own signatures on a law where the matter is fully regulated for the National Assembly. Let's not discuss many issues that have been on the agenda and related to this law. Maybe there's a lot of work to be done, reworked, etc. But the harangus that was raised against the MPs and this institution was incredible and unbearable. So many lies and lies have been made public about the status of MPs and everything that is happening in this assembly that it becomes unbearable and humiliating for the institution of the National Assembly and the People's MP as someone who is the bearer of one of the pillars of government in the Republic of Serbia. That is why I would like to make it clear at the next session of the Assembly when we finally talk about this matter, about all the lies and the half - truths that have been given both the MPs and the National Assembly. An atmosphere has been created in Serbia that everyone has the right on the street to spit on the MPs. Tendeciously, MPs are photographed here to attend the assembly session in time at four in the morning and then take a nap, and the impression is that all MPs are napping here. There's an army of people who drink and eat at affordable prices down at the congregation restaurant, and then there's talk of only MPs drinking and drinking so much and so much. I don't want to keep listing the lies and the lies and the half-truths that concern this. Gentlemen, who cares if such a law, which will arrange the National Assembly and the status of a MP, is not passed? Interest is gentlemen of the tycoon who want to buy MPs here for small money and pass laws as they please. They're the same ones who robbed Serbia when we were in the hardest time. We must raise our voice against them and raise our dignity both to the MP and to the National Assembly. That is why I call on my colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this law at the next session, to put aside these demagogues that sell us to get some tiny point in the electoral body and to talk openly and clearly about this law – what we really think and what we signed in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7495	A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws on the proposal of MP Milojub Albianic, and before opening a joint principled search, I remind you that it corresponds to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in a joint principled search for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE PARINICAL II EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE (principles) Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice want a word? Yeah. ) One notice, before you begin, Dr Dragore Hiber was appointed representative of the DS parliamentary group for these two agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am pleased to present to you in short lines the basic elements of two, in my opinion the key, reform law that regulates the procedural matter of the proceedings before the court. Honestly, I'm a little sorry that the Mediation Act isn't here on the agenda, but it'll be in the process in a few days. Then we would get a fully regulated procedure in court in procedures where we protect those fundamental rights of our citizens, starting with property, status and the like. We're passing the law because according to the Constitutional Charter, this matter was given into the jurisdiction of the Republic, so it was our turn to pass the laws and regulate this area. Two reasons are very important here. It is one thing to satisfy what is our obligation to the citizens of this country, and that is to enable, within a reasonable time, the protection of the rights of citizens and the exercise of their rights by domestic courts. It means giving them the possibility of protection in the so-called so-called. reasonable deadline. The second is to meet all those standards that we have accepted by ratification and the Charter of Human Rights and the adopted standards of the Council of Europe. So at the same time, to meet the obligations that we have made by entering the Council of Europe. I think these laws are very well equating both elements because all those valid standards are really embedded, so the evaluation of the Council of Europe is that it was done in a very good way, and I think these amendments of the law will give a really good acceleration and allow citizens to reach their rights within that reasonable time. The acceleration of the process is seen in several changes and newspapers and I will point only to individual ones. First of all, the principle of material truth has been abandoned and it is given priority to the principle of debate so that, as so far, the courts do not waste much time proving some material truth, and the parties abuse it and drag it away. It has now been delegated to the parties that their rights, i.e. to give valid arguments and valid evidence, to provide evidence of what they claim to be their right and vice versa. So the challenger should provide evidence of these circumstances. At the same time, the procedure has been accelerated in such a way as to provide for the exclusion of inability to abuse disorderly submissions and lawsuits. Now it's very simplified, the procedures will be strict with the misrepresenters of these provisions. At the same time, the possibility of exemptions is provided only in exceptional situations and the scope and possibility of parties to abuse the institute of exceptions has been reduced. The institute of rest has been suspended to speed up the process. The obligation to respond to the suit and its failure and sanctioning and the verdict of the failure is foreseen. So, a series of changes have been made regarding the procedure itself to get one really valid situation, one acceleration, and to allow courts to act more quickly in these cases. A significantly higher obligation has been introduced for all participants in the procedure. So to act in harmony with the Law and to prevent their abuse. Above all, the president's authority to regulate proceedings before the court and, on the other hand, to impose valid penalties. Also, a number of new institutes have been introduced to lead to speed up the process. It is an opportunity to stop the procedure and get a legal position, because it is our obligation to bring the views of different courts into line. It was regulated by a special chapter where it was given the opportunity to stop, to get the Supreme Court's legal position, and then in a large number of cases that exist in Serbia, we have one standard position that can be applied and that the cases end quickly. You have probably seen as a newspaper, that a direct audit has been introduced that gives the parties the opportunity to agree when they have the right to appeal and to go directly to the Supreme Court audit, and also to get a legal position if it is a question of law. In this way, it avoids the appeal procedure, and the second-degree court, and the abolition, and the repeat procedure, and there is a revision, and it is lost for several years. So, basically, it was a desire to speed up the process. What may be the greatest acceleration in the process is a provision that regulates the issue of appeal. Unlike the practice so far where you have had many suspensions and recurrences of proceedings, it is now simplified, so if the second-degree court finds that there is a failure, or that there is a breach in the procedure of the first-degree court, after the first-degree suspension, but in the second-degree judgment, the second-degree court, if it finds that there is room for the suspension earlier, can no longer be lifted, can open the hearing before the second-degree court and reach a verdict. Consequently, the Implementing Procedure Act is, in fact, one logical extension of this first law, because it is not enough just to get a verdict, but to exercise its right to a verdict within the time limit. In this regard, the Law on the Procedural Procedure was simplified and accelerated, but the protection of the interest of debtors was taken into account. First of all, a significantly greater acceleration is foreseen in the adoption of a solution for the authorisation of enforcement. After adopting a solution to the permit for enforcement, all those legal actions that had previously given opportunity to the debtor and third parties, which were not clearly or clearly defined, to delay the procedure, are now excluded. There is a possibility that a complaint or appeal may be made now, but procedures are very short. Data is the possibility of an executive court that if there are any complaints and if it finds that there are elements for the validity of the appeal, it shall appoint a hearing and resolve the issue, that the time of departure of the appeal to the second-degree court is not wasted. And when the case goes to appeal, the deadlines are very short. If the judges do not respect these deadlines, it is legally envisaged as one of the cases of unwitting work of judges and given the possibility of its resolution. In order to achieve a valid acceleration, the possibility of continuing the procedure is given and when a third party or an executive action is sought to protect one of its rights. The law provides that the enforcement process will continue and end, and those who have those rights can exercise their rights tomorrow in a lawsuit and the issue of re-execution has been very well regulated, which has not been the case so far. In any case, there is a great possibility of acceleration, and on the other hand a certain protection of trustees. There is now the possibility of seeking the registration of the property, i.e. the recording of the property of the debtor, so that every trustee, not only that but also the future trustee or the interested person, can see what kind of property it is, because of the subsequent collection of its claims. It has also expanded the scope of the property whose execution is required. It is particularly important that the possibility of execution is given here on both property and immovable property that are not included in land books. I would especially like to point out that, as an opportunity to execute, it is also predicted in actions and co-ownerships, which has not been the case so far. I especially want to point to a newspaper that has great importance for self-execution. It's that shortened procedure with trade courts because today we have a situation where execution procedures take place very slowly and companies that cannot exercise their rights go bankrupt due to the length of the proceedings and the inability to reach their resources. Now this so-called so-called. A brief procedure that can be completed by the executive court itself. The amendments, which we will adopt, have also been given an extension of the scope and assets that will be covered by this shortened procedure, as well as a narrowing of the reasons for which an objection can be made. When you look at a few more newspapers that are of great importance, first of all the newspapers about the types of procedures, and even some new procedures, the issue of security during the procedure, as well as the giving of guarantees, I think that this law is very modern and very well in line with the standards of Europe, which requires speeding up the process so that we can achieve what we are asked for, for example, that there is no procedure that lasts more than 23 months in litigation and about a year and three months in execution, but that it all comes down to two to three months. That's the basic intensity of this law. There's a whole series of newspapers, like, for example, a special procedure for taking away a child and stuff. I think this way, I won't keep you any longer, we are really achieving what is necessary for our citizens and businesses. First of all, to exercise their right to justice, and then to execute it and to receive their claim. On the other hand, if we want to move forward, we need to do what Europe asks of us, which is to overcome this first step on which we are members of the Council of Europe. I can tell you that they think we can already discuss phase two of our accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7497	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7498	Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing two very important laws, both important for the judiciary and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For judges because they have acquired an epithet of people who do not do good work and do not work in accordance with the law in the past because of the unconscious and unprofessional work of individuals, they do not work on the well-being of Serbia and its citizens. On the other hand, citizens were objectively in a situation where certain problems and cases were not solved. All of this, in itself, made one negative impression on the judges. So I think it's good that today we discuss these two laws, to adopt the proposed amendments and supplement the law, that is, the whole law. I'll tell you later why the changes and additions, when I explain the contents of the individual laws. Simply, this will create conditions for those who want to do, who work in accordance with the law, to do so in a better and more efficient way, and for citizens to finally be in a position to be in a position to satisfy this epithet of rights and justice. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that the goals, which are to be achieved by this law, are to speed up the process of resolving court cases, their execution and, of course, the desire for citizens to be satisfied. We believe in general, and there is no need for great wisdom, that there is a need for greater efficiency of the courts in Serbia. Some data suggest that Serbia's litigation lasts for over six years on average, and in itself it says what the situation is about litigation and how long it takes to get to the bottom of it -- that citizens get to justice faster. For this reason, the proposed solutions seek to solve this problem, of course, in a way that will also be agreed on by the legislation of the countries of the European Union. We have also heard this from the promoters, in addition to harmonising with the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, which is also one of the reasons why these laws are passed, these laws also contain solutions from a number of recommendations made by the Council of Europe, which have now become an integral part of the legal system of those countries. These laws, essentially, when they really look at their content, can serve as an example of how a good law can be made in Serbia, how better solutions can be put in place than existing ones, i.e. those who have proved to be bad change. We cannot say the best solutions because practice will show how good these solutions are. On the other hand, we have a fact mentioned by the promoter, and you will also see from the content that there are many provisions of the laws that form part of the Council of Europe's recommendations. Otherwise, there are two very large laws, and it is a shame that the Assembly is not in full shape to discuss these laws. The Law on Procedural Procedure has 494 members and the Law on Executive Procedure of 308 members. It's a shame the Assembly doesn't discuss it in full terms, but whoever wanted him is here and we're in a situation to say a few words about these laws. Excellent solutions to the existing laws on litigation and enforcement have been detained and there are parts where nothing has been changed, and what has been the subject of the dispute or what has shown a lack in practice has been changed. Consistent with the recommendations of the Council of Europe have become an integral part of this law. I took a closer look at the Law of Prosecution. When I say that good solutions to the existing law are reserved, it is seen in the content of this law. In fact, there are ten chapters of this law that have not been amended and relate to parties and their legal advocates, language in procedure, minutes, decision-making, legal aid, rivals, participation of third parties in litigation, security of evidence, main debate, solutions. So a total of ten heads is part of existing legal solutions, and that proposer hasn't changed anything. It's about the work on litigation proceedings, the part where proceedings are regulated in collective agreements, the part that regulates proceedings in civil proceedings, the part that regulates the issue of a payment order, the part of the law on litigation proceedings, the litigation of small value disputes and the part of the law that regulates the procedure in commercial disputes. Part of the Law on the Procedural Procedure where recommendations of the Council of Europe have been applied is part of the exclusion of the exemption, part relating to deadlines and hearings, part relating to the process of resolving the issue, part of the law governing the preparation of the main debate, part of the law on judicial alignment, part of the law on regular legal remedies and part of the law on emergency legal remedies. The law also contains completely new chapters such as the procedure for resolving the issue of legal issue, disrespecting procedural discipline, the part relating to emergency legal medicines and the part relating to the protection of legality. I mention this on purpose in order to understand how many of us in our country have good laws and that sometimes it is an unwarranted criticism of the law. The second is the story of how judges enforce those laws. In order not to understand that everything is idyllic in this law, there are certain parts that we felt should be improved – whether they are imprecise or give the grounds for different interpretations – so I will mention several cases where we felt it should be pointed out to the Proposer and given the opportunity to make the amendments to the law even better. The case works, in Article 106(5). The draft law on litigation, which speaks of the calculation of deadlines, has become obsolete claims or other rights, it is material and legal provisions, not procedural and legal provisions, and they do not belong, in our opinion, to the Law on Liabilities and other laws governing this matter. The second case refers to Chapter XIV which speaks of the procedure for resolving the issue of law. The basis for initiating proceedings before the Supreme Court is a number of cases, as one of the criteria. It is not said what is meant by this and it is left to the Supreme Court to do so through court practice. On the other hand, questions remain whether it is possible to assess in some earlier stages the legal issue, in order for the Supreme Court not to take a position on the issue of a disputed legal issue and, later on, in the same or similar case by revision, to take a different position. Finally, as it is formulated, this procedure applies to all disputes, whether or not revision is possible. In view of the subsidized application of the Law on Procedural Procedure, it should also apply to the Law on non-partisan procedure. If so, the Supreme Court shall become the final instance which, in the case of judicial practice, also in cases where it cannot be decided on by emergency legal remedies. Was that the proposal's intention? Secondly, in the draft law on litigation proceedings, there are no more institutes for the rest of the proceedings, which regulated the court's proceedings in the event of a party's failure to attend the hearing. Instead, two of the points in the proposal, in Article 289 relating to the preparatory hearing and 296 relating to the main debate, are the consequences of the party's failure to proceed further. While Article 289 is clear, there are some misunderstandings in Article 296. The SPS parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to the content of this article, which reads: "If the hearing hearing leaves the prosecutor behind, or if the hearing does not come to that hearing, the debate will be held with the party present" – the provision shall be inserted: "and they are called in neatly." We think this amendment solves things. The promoter accepted that amendment. The bigger problem was with the second view of Article 296, which stipulates that the debate should be delayed if both parties are left behind from the hearing. In the absence of a standstill institute, it is possible that the parties do not appear at the next debate and the court's decision is to postpone the debate. Is it the purpose of amending the Law on the Procedural Procedure to speed up the procedure or to leave this possibility to the parties? We have provided for an amendment that the complaint is considered withdrawn in the event of the two parties' absence from the hearing for the main debate. As we heard on the Committee on Justice, the amendment was accepted. I hope the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will do the same. The fourth suggestion relates to Article 327. The draft law on litigation procedure, which reads: "When the court assesses or the parties unanimously propose that the dispute could be settled successfully by intermediation, mediation, the parties will refer to the mediation procedure and stop the procedure". The mediation process is voluntary. If the intervention procedure is voluntary, then the procedure applies to the very beginning and cannot be left to the court of assessment to refer the parties to the mediation procedure. In the event that the court considers that the dispute could be successfully resolved by a peaceful path, and one party opposes it, then the same party is prevented from expressing its opposition through the appeal and from deciding on a higher court. In doing so, in Article 487. The proposal in its head on the business dispute procedure does not provide for the possibility for the court to assess the possibility of a successful settlement of the dispute through mediation, only if the parties so propose. For this reason, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to exclude from Article 327 the possibility for the court to assess the possibility of a successful solution to the dispute through mediation and to be exclusively at the will of the parties. I mentioned a few examples here about the Law of Prosecution so it wouldn't be understood that everything was idyllic. I think that this law is a good step forward because of the matter it refers to, and especially because of citizens who will be able to come to justice faster. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this draft law on litigation. When it comes to the draft law on the executive procedure, newspapers have been introduced that regulate the position of debtors in a much better and more efficient way in a way that directly contributes to faster and much more efficient enforcement, which is otherwise the intensity of all democratic states, and the citizens will certainly be satisfied. According to the applicable law, the debtor was overprotected and often had the opportunity to make the executive procedure ineffective for various abuses. This proposal for a law contributes to its acceleration and reduces the possibility that the debtor, in the temporary execution of the request of the trustee, established by a mandatory correction, shall act by requiring in such cases the act of law to achieve the purpose of which the law prohibits, i.e. to make the procedure ineffective. In various legal actions, the procedure seemed longer and justice was inaccessible to the citizens. In particular, I would like to emphasise the fact that the Proposer of the Implementing Procedure Act, in order to ensure its efficiency, foresees that failure to comply with the deadlines is treated as a delay in proceedings by judges. This solution should be supported because it reduces the space for any manipulation, which has been present in the case-law so far. A good solution is that the proposed law provides for delivery in the executive procedure to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure. This avoids any possibility of delaying the executive procedure, avoiding delivery by the debtors – which makes the procedure itself executive. The proposed Implementing Procedure Act contains a particular newspaper in connection with the resolution under the statement of appeal or appeal to a solution made in the first instance. The deadlines for appeal, i.e. the complaint, are three days from the date of delivery of the solution and the appeal is decided by the majority of the three judges of the second-degree court whose decision is not justified. The proposal for this law contains one important paper which allows, when the first-degree court considers that the appeal has been made within the time limit, to reconsider its first-degree decision and makes a decision on the adoption of an appeal which is subject to the appeal of the second-degree court, i.e., quote: "If the first-degree court does not decide that I am to resolve the appeal, it will be delivered to the second-degree court". There is one concern that such a solution introduces the control of the decisions of the first-degree court by the High Court. The question is whether the quality of the trial is raised to a higher level. whether greater legal certainty is also achieved in the enforcement of case law. I would agree with the assessment that the legislator predicted that a first-degree court in each complaint was obliged to take its stand and deliver it to the second-degree authority. Such a solution left the freedom of the first-degree authority to decide on which appeal will take its own position, which in certain cases could be bad. The law on the procedure, which has over 300 members, contains a number of newspapers compared to the solutions so far. In addition to the appeal as a regular remedy, the rights of debtors to initiate litigation or other proceedings, mentioning the third party's right to object and initiate a litigation procedure, the enforcement of an alternative obligation by choice of debtors, the regulation of costs issues, the issue of bail in the executive procedure, the issue of fines, the issue of counter-execution, the question of delaying execution on a third party's proposal. The papers are also regulation of the issue of suspension, regulation of enforcement issues for the collection of cash claims, adoption of a special solution, a matter that speeds up the public competition process, the property procedure, the matter of the shortened executive procedure. I would not like to mention it again, but I must say that the essence of these amendments to the Law on Procedure and the Law on Prosecution is that, within a short period of time, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia may come to justice, from the moment the proceedings are initiated before the judicial authorities of the citizens, gain the opportunity to reach their right and reach them. We think that everything contained in these two draft laws – I tried to make part of it on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group – a good step forward for both the judiciary and the citizens, and that is for Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group will support these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7499	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted by the G17 Plus MPs, DS, DSS. I give the word to the Messenger of the people Mark Krstin, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Miodrag Djidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7500	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, these laws are really steps that go forward towards speeding up judicial proceedings and towards the fact that the citizens of this country are really quick to justice. In addition to all the good elements that the laws have, there are some things that have not been completed and whose law really represents something that has not been done and managed on the right target. I would first of all look back at the deadlines. We don't have any limited deadlines for the second-degree court and Supreme Court to work on the audit. These are fully open deadlines and without these deadlines, we do not have the opportunity to talk about the efficiency of the procedure, especially if we are talking about immaterial damage, because we know that the right to immaterial damage is being extinguished by the death of the parties. This is something that would have to be addressed and this law of some Supreme Court proceedings is being handed down, and some more massively, such as review, district courts and appeals, does not limit anything. So, in order for the law to really be consistent in its basic intention, the deadlines of the second-degree court and the Supreme Court must be limited by revision. Organizational impediments of a guy to have no judges, no courts, etc. they would not be able to hold criticism or the professional public, and I am afraid of the civil society, or the parties for which this law is being passed. These are his shortcomings that must be addressed. In particular, I think it is important, and it is not sufficiently done by this law, that parties and the court are given the opportunity to exchange views on the necessary content of factual allegations and evidence to be carried out so that the court can make a decision and that the parties know in which direction the court intends to make that decision. I'm talking about open justice, possible maximum. There could have been a lot more to be done. The law did not go deeper into matter, and that is necessary for the efficiency of the procedure itself. In the end, only two more things, about delivery. The delivery wasn't touched, in my opinion, almost at all. We even have some loose ends. If delivery is unsuccessful, the law does not define when it is unsuccessful, and the delivery, as we know, depends on the full legal impact on the court's decision. This should be defined, i.e. to settle the question of what unsuccessful delivery means and how to react when delivery is unsuccessful. Of course, foreigners must be given the opportunity to find an act that has not been delivered in court or in the mail of delivery. In doing so, I would like to point out that an unwarranted judicial delivery service is the only one capable of carrying out the delivery properly. In the end, since I'm a lawyer and I owe my profession and parties an explanation, something about representation. This law has been in force for 30 years, and in that part it has not suffered any changes. We're still in the '70s when there weren't enough lawyers, there weren't any modern means of generalization, traffic and other means, so we're still allowing all those involved in nadrising, and they have a business ability to represent people. We've only limited it by this law to the review procedure and the legal process. I have to tell you that in the review process, you can't make factual allegations and that it would be very important for lawyers to file complaints. Not to mention, there's no excuse to allow someone who's not a doctor to operate, and neither is anyone who's not a lawyer to conduct the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7501	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Is he here? No, it's not. ) National MP Petar Cvetkovic, and let the MP Vladimir Homan be prepared. The break is not time-defined, it is given during the day for an hour. We'll start taking a break later this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7502	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Law on Prosecution, the draft law on litigation procedure and the Proposal for an Implementing Procedure can be added few things after the opening presentation of Mr Stojkovic's Justice Minister. In these first words, you conclude that the DSS and I, as the first to discuss this law, will fully support these laws, i.e. the draft law on litigation and the draft law on enforcement proceedings. What I want to say very briefly is the unquestionable need of citizens – justice. It is also expressed through many proverbs that people need justice. That's right. Citizens need justice, but quick and effective justice. We are witnessing the remains of a legal system that is the product of a self-government socialist society. Not only on the criticism of this society and this arrangement and that system, but also fighting for a modern rule of law and the exercise of the rights of citizens, it is necessary to adopt a law that will take into account, that is, all the achievements so far in the domain of justice and justice in the countries of the world, or in democratic states of the world. It should be commended for the engagement of both governments and the justice ministry for the adoption of new laws. I can't avoid pointing out that the previous government had both time and space and ideas. We even received promises from the former Justice Minister that they would quickly approach the draft of these laws, but it was not for years, or that there was no indication for a full three years that these laws would be considered. These bill proposals are modern. They cover all the recommendations of the Council of Europe. These include a coherent and modern legal theory of democratic states, as I said. There are few objections that could be established, few legal objections that could suffer criticism, i.e. they could not receive an adequate answer. What I would say in one sentence to all critics who demand more change is that due to the legal tradition, habits, culture and all conditions in society should be approached with a certain amount of caution. Care should be taken, and changes should be gradual. As a result, I fully believe that the draft laws on litigation and enforcement are in place and that they should be adopted as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7503	The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Homan (relenting). ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Istvan Ispanović. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristić. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Zivkovic. He's giving up. ) The word has a National MP Milan Markovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Goran Rakovac. He's giving up. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. He's giving up. ) The word has a People's MP, Vojkan Tomic. He's giving up. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Gašo Knezevic. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Gavrilovic. He's giving up. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or of someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on litigation and the draft law on enforcement proceedings. Since we've completed the principle search on these two agenda points, which have been united, I'm setting a break up to 15.10 hours. [[After break – 15.55]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will continue to work. Before we move to part two of our work, please establish a quorum. I find there are 90 MPs present in the O.R. We have a quorum to work with. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a PARICAL PROCEDURE (single) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Ištvan Išpanović, Vladimir Homan, Zarko Obradović, Bojan Kekić, together Slobodan Vučković and Slobodan Pajović, together Slobodan Vučković, Slobodan Pajović and Milan Marković, together Milan Marković Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Boško Ristić, Slobodan Vučković, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić and Milan Marković, together Milan Marković Leila Ruždić and Boško Ristić, together Milan Marković and Slobodan Vučković, Slobodan Pajković, Nikola Ruždić, Milan Marždić, Milan Ruždić and Boško Mirović, together Milan Marković, together with Slobodan Vučković, Miodrag Djidić, Leila Ruždić-Rizović and Boštović Rjaždić, Miljan Kražović, Ružović, Ružović and Božović, Ružović, Ružović, Mirdić, Ružović, Ružović, Mirdić, Mirdić, Miržović, Miržović, Mirdić, Miržić, Mirkodić, Mirkodić, Mirdić, Mirdić, Mirštić. National MP Vladimir Homan, written on November 2, 2004, withdrew the amendment to Article 306. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. National MP Slobodan Vukkovic, representative of the Group of Amendments, withdrew the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration on Article 166, which was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic, and MP Zarko Obradovic withdrew the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration to Article 327. It's a bill of law. The Legislative Committee shall be based on Article 140(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia carried out a legal and technical order of the Law proposal, which reads: Article 7(1): "based" is replaced by the word "based". Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on litigation procedure has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the amendments, just one notice. The resignation of MP Goran Jocic. You have received the resignation of Goran Jocic, the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly under Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of Parliamentarian Goran Jocic's term of office on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time elected to MP Goran Jocic, elected from the SRS Election List - Dr Vojislav Seselj. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7505	As part of the numerous shortcomings in this bill, we will start from Article 4, which is the basic provisions which include, among other things, the principles on which the whole litigation is based. Article 4 shall, inter alia, regulate the situation and give the court the right to exclude the public from the proceedings. We have submitted the amendment and are asking to change that formulation. The proposal states that the court will exclude the public only in the cases provided for by law. Of course, there is a chapter – Publicity, there are prescribed cases, but since this whole law dissipates with the inaccuracy that the provision begins with the words of the court, the judicial court, the audit court, the individual judge, the president of the judicial council or the court, and in one place it is mentioned only by the Court of Appeal, we believe that, within the basic principles, it is necessary to specify this position on the possibility of disfellowshipping the public from the main investigation, and we have offered a formulation that the court can rule out the public only in the main debate. So, only at the beginning of the main debate, in the cases provided for by this law. If it's an official secret, a state secret, a military secret, or there's some other legitimate interest that the public doesn't have to have full insight into the process and what's done. As can be seen, the point is to make a decision at the start of the debate on the extent of public exclusion. We think that this formula is much better and that it practically rules out the possibility of us having these situations. I will set a famous example where Professor Vojislav Seselj sued the state of Serbia in the face of the publicly promised award. Practically, even before the debate was open, the judge ruled out the public. They simply said it couldn't be entered, only the prosecutor would come in, the defendant would come in, and the defendant was never there, the public was excluded, so no one had any insight into what was going on. There may have been a reason for disfellowshipping the public, but if the public is excluded, let it be excluded in the main debate, not to exclude itself from the decision of the individual judge before opening the debate. I think it improves the quality of the law, sublimes the urge for public exclusion to be a real exception. I don't want to go into those provisions about the public where perhaps until the end of the convention this institute isn't worked out, because disabling the public doesn't mean that the public can't have any data, even if it's a stage where there's a procedure. The promoter believes that the formulation can, in part, fully cover that requirement as well. I'm not going into it, but I believe that this formulation is limited by the court, primarily by an individual judge, not to make a decision before the debate begins, but rather to open a debate when it determines which parties are present, it is possible to state what the claim is, to exclude the public or to limit it. It is a good provision that the party may have its two full-time representatives present during the debate, taking appropriate commitments not to inform the public of what is happening there. I'm surprised you didn't accept this amendment, since it only improves what I know you think it should be, and this formulation in the proposal doesn't satisfy all needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7506	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7507	On the occasion of the amendment, which says that the court can exclude the public only in the main debate in the cases provided for by this law. The cases provided for by law are not disputed. They're numbered in certain places in the law. The problem is only when and where this public may be excluded in a litigation procedure. The main debate is not the only hearing that can be held. There's also a preparation hearing. A concentration of evidence shall be performed at the preparatory hearing. If there are certain reasons for disfellowshipping the public at the main debate, there is only one when holding the preparatory hearing, so I do not understand whether this amendment, in practice, narrows down the possibility of disfellowshipping the public. That should be in mind when it comes to this thing. So the main debate is not the same as the preparatory hearing – it is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7508	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7509	Don't confuse the public. The preparatory hearing is never a public hearing but only calls on parties to make an agreement on how the process will continue. The judge can approve, but he has a lot of rights and forbids it. He can, but he doesn't have to. In law, the main debate must be public, and the preparatory hearing does not have to be public and it is not a debate, it is at the stage of preparation. There is not even evidence at all, but a concentration is being carried out – what are we going to do, what is the party proposing, etc. Don't go after those two ideas, that's two completely different ideas. This formulation that we have submitted in the amendment is better, gives more space to the court and gives greater security to parties involved in the process and to those who need to protect some data. We ask that it be interpreted restrictively when it is possible to exclude the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7510	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Išpanović Istvan. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Ispanović Istvan has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7511	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and to the second sentence of Article 1 of this article, because this formulation in the bill is impeccable, giving a broad opportunity for a judge to apply this provision in a manner that he considers appropriate, and I also think that this provision will derrogate Article 11. The Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. I've given a second formulation that I think far better reflects the intensities of Article 11. The Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, and it also provides a full definition of how the language of national minorities should be applied in the process. This problem is known because I have previously and personally applied provisions on the use of the language of national minorities as a judge. How does this provision stand in the law now? The second sentence of Article 6 states: “In areas where, in accordance with the law, the language of a particular national minority is in official use, the procedure is conducted in both the language and the use of the letter and the national minority.” When applied, whether it will be applied parallelly in both Serbian and national minority languages, it cannot be determined from this article. I therefore proposed that this provision be read as follows: ‘In areas where, in accordance with the law, the language of a particular national minority is officially used, the procedure is conducted in language and using the letter of that national minority, if the court has designated that language as the language of the proceedings’. I think this provision is far closer to reality. What does current practice look like in this respect? In fact, there are virtually no procedures in the language of national minorities. A judge who would like to apply now existing provisions or these provisions would be punished. In fact, he would have to conduct the procedure in both the Serbian language and the language of the national minority, which means double work, and only one case is recognised in the judicial norm, whether in two languages or in one language. Therefore, it would be necessary for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7512	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to an explanation of the amendments, I must indeed note that the fact that the SRS did not participate in the principle debate has clearly shown the relationship between this majority and those present here as opposition both to the laws and to the work in this assembly, especially under the Law on Prosecution and the Law on Executive Procedure, which constitute fundamental laws in every legal system. It was also scandalous that you brought two of these important laws together in a unique debate. I don't know what reason. If you bring two important laws together in a single debate, then the question is whether any other law deserves to be discussed for five hours. You will explain your reasons to the citizens when the time comes, but don't say how important the judiciary is to you, how important it is for you to make the work of the judicial authorities more effective, but also to explain why the reduced coefficients for judicial employees are. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment that changes the position of Article 7 in some way and which will be accepted through the legal order by the Government, but for my unexplainable reasons, part of the amendment relating to paragraph 4 which I asked to delete the words "unless otherwise prescribed by law". For the purposes of this Article, ‘the Court cannot base its decision on the facts on which the parties are not given the possibility to plead’ and, below, for completely unexplained reasons: ‘unless otherwise prescribed by law’. I don't see the reasons why it could even be prescribed that certain evidence or facts can be decided without giving one of the parties to the court proceedings the opportunity to plead. In this way, the balance that must exist between procedural parties in the litigation process is completely disrupted. If such a solution is adopted, we will return to other times long ago, which we really thought were behind us, some other courts, because there is no such thing in modern legislation. If the position of Article 7 remains this way, it will be contrary to Article 5(1), which says that each party's court will provide an opportunity to declare the requests, proposals and allegations of the opposing party. In order for there to be a litigation procedure, there must be two sides that will be given the procedural opportunity to plead, both of them, on the opposite side's allegations. It is unclear how one of the litigators will even come to a court of law and that a verdict is made on that basis. So, if it is determined that the parties are obliged to present all the facts on which they base their demands and provide evidence that these facts are determined, then it is simply incredible to allow this party or that party to present certain things and to be based on these facts, i.e. The quasi fact is that the other party is not given the possibility of a statement. It is also stated in the reasons for the law to be passed that the law, as a prerequisite for effective judicial work, allows for changes. Are those the changes you promised? Are those the changes we want? Do we want to speed up the trial and the effective trial, and that goes to the heart of the truth? I don't think we want to. It is also said here that new legal solutions are the result of accepting the implementation of the Council of Europe's recommendations in our national legislation. I really cannot believe that either the European Community, or the Council of Europe, demanded such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7514	Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the applicable Law on Prosecution is a law that the Kingdom of Yugoslavia has taken over from the Austrian civil law. The Austrian civil law was passed in 1895, and we took it over in 1929 during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to be completed and amended in 1957. The provisions of civil civil law apply to Austria and Germany day and day. What is wrong with the law when the provisions of the litigation procedure were written by experts, experts who ended up with tens in Sorbonne, Vienna, Pest, London and other universities? What we are offered by this law is that the proposer is trying to convince us that the adoption of the proposed law on litigation will end the trial within a reasonable period. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are experiencing a disaster and a breaking of a very good, previously acquired legal system. If a law on litigation is adopted and the Law on the Executive Procedure of Serbian citizens does not have legal certainty. They have been denied a number of rights, prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised that the motionary has kneeled before NGOs and Maurice Massari that they are proposing and passing drafts and bill proposals. Now I'm going to show you a draft law on executive procedure (maintain material in hand) which was formed by the Centre for Liberal-Democratic Studies. Please, please, please compare the text to the proposed law, make sure the ladies and gentlemen that this is prescribed in relation to what is changing. I'll be back on the 7th. If the applicant’s arguments were not correct, it would be easy to determine from the provisions of the draft law. Article 7(2), where it is prescribed that the Court lays down all the facts of which the decision on foundation depends, and not only those which are disputed, by introducing the principle of formality of the official state body as a priority over the principle of disposition, or the discriminatory principle of the parties to the proceedings. According to the draft law, the court is authorised to also determine those facts which are not disputed among the parties, which is delayed by the procedure but is more dangerous than the abuse of the court because the procedure can be directed to whom it corresponds, rather than to the public interest and principles declared and recommendations of the Council of Europe, as the proposer incorrectly informs us. In order to allow a particular judge to conduct the procedure, an amendment has been made in Article 69 of the draft law, and point 2 of Article 1 of Regulation (EC) No 1st point 2 is prescribed: “That a request for an exemption from the judge on which the application has already been decided”. What does that mean in practice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Ladies and gentlemen, everyone in this room and those who are watching and listening to us, I draw attention to you, if you adopt such proposals will face in practice and in life with many problems. If you asked for an exemption from the judge during the litigation procedure, where 2, 3 or 4 evidence was carried out, and if a request has been filed and the President has rejected it, the solution has been reached, you find out about the new reasons that the constitution and the law prescribes and you present them to the court, you seek the exception of that judge, because it is biased, because it is by its own procedure, then it means that the parties in the proceedings will no longer have the right to apply for exemption and when they find out...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7516	Mr. Jojic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7517	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 or the application of Article 7 has covered everything, the whole law. Article 7 and other members shall be deprived of the right of all citizens to declare complaints and to exercise their rights. There's an even worse case with article 219 that we'll look back on individually later. I once again show that NGOs write laws and suggestions to us. When I was a federal minister, neither Carla del Ponte nor Mauricio Masari were allowed to come to my door and share orders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to bring our laws free of charge in this House when the Supreme Court of Serbia is authorized on the basis of some of its powers, although it is not prescribed in the Constitution, in any law on judges or on the organisation of courts...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7518	Mr. Jojic, you've been over it for almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7519	I'm sorry, I'll give you some time later. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the law, the Supreme Court issues legal views and principles on which the lower courts judge and make decisions. That's what the disaster in our target right is. This branch of law must no longer be broken. She's not that bad. If it were bad, neither the Germans nor the Austrians, nor many other countries of the European Union, would apply it. Thank you for my first announcement, I'll have a lot to say individually on the amendments, so don't mind me. You're not gonna take my time. This is just the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7520	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7521	It's very simple and simple to understand the essence of this amendment. It is good that the principle of material truth appears in this bill, which essentially meant nothing. So, as if there was a material and I don't know which other truth and it's good that it's leaving, which doesn't exist anymore as a court's obligation, but the parties involved in the procedure are obliged to provide evidence of the facts on which they base their claim. What is not to stand, and it is written in the last position of this member, is to introduce a restriction on the principle of distribution. When a little bit of insight that this situation could be when it's different by law, so prescribed as it stands here, then we go back to the field of conjecture and presumption. In terms of facts, it is illegal. So it's essentially illegal, when it comes to facts, but the bigger problem with this attitude is that you allow the court to determine some fact, and that the parties in the process are not given the opportunity to make those facts known. It's a counter-explanation. Just look at how it's been formulated and we're about to confirm what I said. You begin by saying that the court must not base its decision unless it has given the parties the opportunity to plead these facts, and beyond the score, you give that possibility when it comes to some presummation. There's no parasumption when it comes to facts. You are now practically introducing a new principle. That would be some principle of formal truth. So, in the truth of some fact, you've come on the basis of some evidence, some papers, some IDs, and you're giving the court the authority not to allow the parties to plead these facts. We're talking about article seven, and if you're talking about that amendment, the situation is still a nigger for you. If you're talking about that amendment and making a connection to that amendment, I have to tell you that the situation is another nigger for one simple reason. Minister, this formulation, therefore, allows the court to find an excuse why it does not end an effective first-degree procedure. We've offered a formulation that won't prevent mediation, but it won't serve as an excuse for the court not to complete the first-degree procedure. We've talked about this situation several times on the Committee. The entire first-degree procedure should be based and completed at the preparatory hearing and at the hearing for the main debate. It can be delayed and moved for carrying out evidence etc. But basically, you only have two hearings. There are basically only two hearings. If you take as a standard that has led you and you take this form of Article 11, then you have a situation that the court will be able to abuse this authority, to allow parties to intervene, and he is obliged only to make sure that they don't agree, because it's better to settle thinly, rather than a fat case. It's familiar to everyone. But this formulation provides an excuse for judges to have a coverage that the hearing isn't scheduled within two months, so for the next two months, we let the parties agree. It's a special chapter, though. So, we're just sorting things out here in principle. The court is obliged to respect that, but that is no excuse for undue delay because of what you wrote in article 10 that the party has the right to settle its dispute within a reasonable period of time. The problem is to define that reasonable time limit. Perhaps with some provisions on instructive deadlines, which may affect judges to settle a particular case over a certain period, it can be acted upon. This formulation practically prevents the court from misusing the intermediation institute to resolve the disputed relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7522	The word is from Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7523	Dear People's MPs, dear ministers, I support the amendment of the honourable Mr of the SRS Sarovic, and here's why. The legislator repeals the basic principles of civil-legal procedure as the highest activity in the legislative process, therefore, the principle of material truth in the process. The proposer is ousting from Article 1 of the old law which bound the court to determine the disputed facts of which the founding of an official request depends. This proposal does not require the court to truthfully establish the disputed facts of which the founding of the formal request depends, which, if this radical solution is adopted, will be the twilight of our procedural and legal procedure. The court will not be bound, nor will it be assigned to him as until now to determine all the disputed facts. The role of the court, you should know, Mr. Minister, is active, dominus litis. When this is the principle of material truth, the court will be a silent observer instead of being an incentivator for collecting process building to bring about the truth. If this solution remains, the rulings may be based on untruths, since they will not be obliged to establish the disputed facts, they will not be able to shed light on all the issues in question, nor to supplement the incomplete allegations of the parties, nor to supplement the means of proof, nor to provide any necessary clarifications in order to fully establish the factual situation of the court's decision. So instead of extending the court's powers, you're narrowing them down. You're narrowing down the debate with this, and if you deny the debate that encourages the court, you'll never get to the truth. Only through debate, with the practical and active role of the court, the truth best emerges in the light of day and all cracks in the parties' statements are revealed. Such a debate is the best defense against all unconscious litigators and an effective tool i.e. preventative means of preventing the abuse of procedural rights to which the proceedings are delayed. Therefore, the principle of material truth should not only be a goal, but it should be in accordance with other principles, it should be a rational combination of more principles, given the general objective of litigation – to protect threatened rights and establish a legal order. So respect the profession you didn't realize, you didn't consult any experts. Now you have the opportunity to fix your law with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7524	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7525	We're going around something I don't think is necessary. You know, there were all kinds of things here. Do you know that even in this law that is now in force, there is a verdict because of the absence? What kind of a dissociative principle? What are you talking about and why are you saying that this is how you take away the opportunity of another party to declare evidence? It's not true, because the court is obliged to give her the opportunity to plead for the evidence, but she doesn't have to. I said, as you have seen in the first or second article, that the principle of material truth is abandoned except when imperative regulations are governed, and then the court must react. The second situation is dominated by a very detailed principle, and the parties are given the opportunity to plead and challenge the allegations of those other parties, therefore, to attach evidence. If she doesn't want it, she has consequences, but then she's carrying them herself. The procedure slows down what we heard from the previous speaker. If the court is to deal with finding the truth and the parties don't want to take part in it, do you know when the case is gonna end? Never. There's a problem, and that's why we changed this principle that the court is always obliged to establish the material truth. Not necessarily in litigation, the parties have their rights, so let them take care of them, unless they touch an interest which is related to imperative regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7526	Mr. Hiber, are you looking for a word by amendment or by the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The Republic was sought by Mr. Sarovic, so he has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7527	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this has been a little underestimating. You can't, Mr. Minister, in response to our remarks made to article 7 that there is such a possibility of a verdict in the absence. The point of this is to give the parties the opportunity to plead. The ruling in the absence of parties was given the possibility but they did not take advantage of it and it is a completely different situation. I can trust you possibly with the word that you had good intentions, but that's not what's in the law. If he interprets himself and applies this law, then it'll come up with something completely different. The ruling in the absence exists when the party is properly called to the hearing and no verdict is reached for the absence, but then the party is given the opportunity to plead. She's suffering the consequences of not giving up the call, and this is a completely different situation. Here it is decidently said that the court cannot base its decision on the fact that the parties are not given the opportunity to plead unless the law says otherwise. Therefore, it can be prescribed that the verdict may be passed even if the parties are not given the opportunity to plead. That's two completely different things.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7528	Thank you. The word is Mr. Hiber, the MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7529	Ladies and gentlemen, due to the postponement of the start of the morning session, a meeting of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic -- was held at the time when the debate on this draft law was launched in principle. I will not abuse this speaker to speak in principle about the amendment, but the fact is that this Article 7 proves the serious weaknesses of the bill, prepared with good intentions, good goals, but in a way that these objectives are not always and everywhere, to this extent they do not reach that there is serious doubt that this law, as proposed, will bring an improvement to our litigation process. It's what my predecessor said at the verdict for missing. Of course, foreigners, or accused against whom the ruling is brought, must be given the opportunity to plead. He must be properly invited. If he was not properly invited to the hearing, or if he missed his chance to respond to the suit, which he must do under this law, he just missed the opportunity to plead, and the opportunity was given to him. The legislator probably made a bad formulation here, but this member also shows a number of other weaknesses. I would agree with Mr. Minister if the principle of material truth was not the supreme principle of litigation. The litigation process is about the rights and interests of the parties. This is a procedure between the two opposing parties and there is no reason for the state to take more account of the parties' interests through the court than it does of its own. Given the circumstances that exist in our criminal justice system, this is an extremely long and inefficient lawsuit, a multi-annual one, with late justice, and it is known that it is not justice, with manipulations of time, corruption, which is primarily turned towards manipulation of time. The legislator wanted to create rules of procedure that would reduce it. He got close to almost possible maximum. He made a commitment to the parties, the prosecutor and the defendant to state in their first submissions, the lawsuits and the response to the action, all the facts they consider relevant and all the evidence to be carried out. But he stopped right after that. He gave this Article 7 which is, the right of the court to decide for itself what facts to be discussed, so to those which the parties did not even mention, let alone make them controversial. In order to determine such facts, the court will take sides with one or the other, those who have failed to state the fact, to challenge or propose to prove it. This is contradictory to the legislator's intention. It stretches throughout the law. The first step may have been taken in the direction that the legislator had in mind, which is one legal philosophy and philosophy of procedural law that one can accept or do not accept, but cannot by professional arguments to bring it down or defend it. He took the first step but failed to take the other steps and made one system that I'm afraid will be uglyly enforceable in practice and will instead bring the same or worse situation in the litigation process. With this in mind, I will now say what would be said in the debate in principle, which is that the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic will not vote in principle for the bill, will be abstained, so if most without it there is, it is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7530	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7531	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I believe that the Government had a good intention or at least I want to believe that it makes a law that will be an instrument for judges to conduct the procedure properly and to come to quick and effective decisions, all with the aim of protecting and protecting citizens' interests and rights as well as possible. However, the proposed law is inconsistencies because it only declares that it will be quick and efficient, and concrete solutions leave the possibility for litigation parties to pursue the procedure indefinitely, and later the Implementing Procedure, where new litigation can be opened, that the party can never or for a very long period of time fulfil its claim, or its right. In particular, Article 7, where it is required to delete this possibility that the court may establish facts based on evidence that the opposite party has not declared is contrary to all democratic norms. Since Roman law, there is a principle of hearing the other side. The other party is heard precisely because it would have anything to say about the facts and evidence provided by the initiator, directing the procedure precisely on it, that this legal attack could reject itself by a new argument or by proving its rights. In this way, the basic right, which has been in force for several thousand years, is completely shut down. In this way, the parties are placed in an unequal position. Otherwise, the inequality of litigation parties during the proceedings is also the reason for the declaration of both regular and extraordinary legal medicinal products. Therefore, the promoter did not consider this one legal situation and allowed the court to make such a disposition, with this authority to favour one of the parties in the process. What do you get by law like this? It's just an inefficient judiciary, a severance of litigation and proceedings. I think the citizens of Serbia will remember well the name of the current minister who promises to complete the proceedings quickly and that the execution will be carried out within three to six months. I want Serbian citizens to look at the state and status of their cases before the court after six months and let them assess who was right – those who have proposed such a solution or those who criticise such concrete solutions. The Democratic Party is in favour of a procedure that will enable urgent and timely protection of citizens' rights, especially those who invest their resources, to have the opportunity to return or protect funds from unconscious users or those who have used them. There were a lot of promises that we would get an effective procedure, that it would effectively protect the rights, that it was one of the preconditions for foreign investment, for investment, for the protection of credit investors, but we'd see if all of their expectations were met here. One of the obligations of this assembly and the legislator is to deliver with each law a statement that the proposed law is in accordance with EU law. That is why I believe Minister Stojkovic was obliged to deliver a written statement that this law is in accordance with European law. He declared here that he had received support from the representatives of Europe, but such a statement, which for him is a binding statement for which he bears political responsibility, should be left to the MPs, in order to truly be convinced on what basis and from whom he received the consent that this law is in accordance with European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7532	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7533	I'm really surprised. I thought my colleague Ristic knew one thing, that before the bill came to the government, the Secretariat of legislation had to provide evidence that it had been checked and that it was in line with EU rules. That's what the Legislative Secretariat does, and only then is the motion being discussed in the government. If we had to give you evidence, I don't know what that would mean for the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7534	Thank you. Replica Bosko Ristic, so he will receive the word of MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7535	Ladies and gentlemen, if this isn't a mere phrase, which I was talking about, it's also a member of the court that says that the court is authorized to determine the detention of a witness who doesn't want to make a statement about certain facts. It is against all European norms and all democratic standards. It's even out of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So an ignorant witness who's afraid to make a statement about a disputed border, who's afraid that tomorrow the border he inherited from his grandfather won't be moved to his harm, can live to be held in custody for up to 30 days unless he starts to plead. However, there is one fence in that member, which is that the witness can complain about that solution if he knows that there is a basis, that the court has denied him the right not to give an answer to certain facts that may expose him or his family to criminal persecution, severe shame or material damage. What ignorant party in the form of some peasants from the most remote village can know they're using that right? Is this too much authority for an unconscious judge who can thus commit abuse and force those who fear for their own status and for their own personal or property rights? Everywhere in Europe, there is a ban on prison sentences beyond criminal proceedings, beyond the procedure in which a man is given the right to defend himself or the right to appeal to a higher court. For this appeal, as foreseen here, there is no court to decide. So, it is a harsh violation of European standards and it is therefore necessary for the minister to make a written statement, that this law is in accordance with European law, so that he can bear the proper political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7536	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7537	You can explain it to someone, you can't explain it to someone. I won't try anymore. I suppose you can read it. You didn't get a chance at your time. All three monitors made it clear that the situation was zero and that it went backwards. Read the last one and you'll see. He says these changes lead to the abolition of the reserve at the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Secondly, the Charter specifically says that only a court can impose a sentence in prison, but does not say whether it is litigious or criminal. You're obviously mistaken about that. Each one of these solutions has a right to appeal. So I don't see what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7538	Thank you. Replica – Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7539	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, I must again point out that as long as the party does not have the right to an attorney and counsel in the proceedings where it is called as a witness, and in any criminal proceedings where it is possible to sentence the prison, you are obliged to provide the party with both the right to professional defence and the right to appeal and the right to your own defence. Therefore, the witness is at risk here and you have to admit that this kind of disposition, this kind of authority towards the court, and it's too dangerous and it's the basis for many abuses. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. It is just one example of how European standards and even democratic standards should be trampled into a procedural law that should represent the agreement of all citizens in Serbia, to determine the procedure by which they will resolve each other's disputes. This should not be a basis for politics and politicism, but should be an expression of the aspirations of all citizens, to solve their problems in a regulated procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7540	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7541	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, is true, it is not important that DS – Boris Tadic did not have the opportunity to talk about the law in principle and therefore I will try to avoid this challenge to say something in principle and try to bind myself to Article 7. It's not my nature to criticize the judiciary, first of all, that it's my job to teach future judges, and maybe a number of the present listened to some of my lectures. So I'm criticizing myself. However, it is undeniable that the various surveys conducted by agencies of different events say there is one mistrust of the people in relation to the judiciary and say there are several judicial diseases. One of these is corruption, but let's put it aside. I think it's the least important. The more important it is to me, the ignorance and ineffectiveness of work. That's what hurts, what can be affected more easily than corruption. Corruption usually ends behind the curtain, behind the scenes, and it's hard to control. However, an effective judiciary can be controlled. It's possible to raise the level of knowledge, but it's a long-term process. As for the efficiency of the judiciary, whether this law, as I hear from the circles of the SRS, the one that was passed in 1957 and is based on AGZ (Austrian Civil Law) or the CPO (German Process Law) or any other law by the party, and apparently this text is influenced by Masari, it is not important, it is important that we live in it. The important thing is that the judges will have to apply it, and the judges have several tools in civil law matter. The basic tool is their PDO. I know because I was a friend, a colleague, etc. Professors, some who had projects at the level of litigation. The late professor. Late night, he had volumes of manuscripts about a litigation procedure. I feel that serious intervention at the level of procedural and criminal and civic is necessary and that is why I don't understand why we tried to pack something quickly. Will it be just one of the Serbian government's producers, just one of the lines on the gun, on the handle of the revolver? Is that the only goal? Gentlemen, you have a serious problem in Article 7 and here are two opinions: one, which I think is modern and good, extends from these principles of procedural law – the dissociative principle and the principle of party disposition and the other, which goes after the investigative principle, gives some properties of the criminal procedure, because the investigative principle is more dominant than the litigation process and introduces it and strives for some material truth, etc. Regardless of my value to these courts, this is a serious question. You must contribute to the purpose, i.e. the integrity and economicity of the procedure of one of the principles of litigation law and by strengthening the principle of disposition at the expense of the investigation process. This is where we came back to half the fish - half the girl. It went forward and then it got scared and stopped. We need to define ourselves once as a country, find a particular interest and try and train judges, teach them and instruct them to apply certain principles correctly. So I think this is a semi-tour, that it didn't lead to a final result, and I'm afraid, like any palitative solution, it's short of breath. Once again, a new assembly and a new government will have the ambition to change the CAP, but I hope it will do it much more seriously than this attempt has been made. I don't argue with good intentions at all, but I think the seriousness is missing, there's no public debate, and we've discussed this more seriously. No, we're not. Why public debate? It serves the promoter, not me, to get the people's opinion of what he thinks of his project and to correct it. Don't think anyone's a critic of the government. We're building a system together. Let's try to act that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7542	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. National MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7543	Ladies and gentlemen, this is amazing. Those who blamed this government and the ruling majority here that they were slow, to stop reforms, say: you're fast, you're slow. What happened to them, and they haven't changed a single law in three years? Their minister of justice and their ministry, their government did not deal with life's problems and propose legislation. They did not, apart from attacking the DSS and the ruling coalition here to slow down reforms, stop Serbia and turn back, and now they say we are going too fast, that the government is going too fast. If the Justice Department had given so many laws in a short time, the previous government could have existed for 99 years, it wouldn't have given as many laws as this in less than eight months. You're saying that the Law of Prosecution wasn't at a public hearing. You know it's a lie. Gentlemen of the Radicals don't earn, I'm correct to you. This applies to those of the DS who are in legal error most often. They weren't doing their job. Those who work hard because they work. A gentleman who is most rebelling, who abuses the Rules of Procedure, who has brought in co-operation with his party colleague, who unfortunately is not here today, says the public debate has been denied the debate in principle, and the gentlemen have not carried out their duties as MPs. Their names were properly named. They weren't there and they lost that right. I do not know why the chairman, or vice president, does not apply the measures laid down in the Rules of Procedure, which these gentlemen have prescribed, and have expelled us and delivered us, punished and seized the mandates. They are now about one member of the 7th who is precisely a specific remark and Mr. Sarovic's amendment, which was the least spoken of, or not at all. Gentlemen criticise the entire law, criticise it on a flat-rate basis, suspect, use various attacks and words, trying to demean the work of the Ministry and Government. The basic argument is, this is the answer to exactly what the gentlemen have presented so far, and the basic answer is that this government, this Parliament, this ministry is doing and passing laws. They had opportunities, and now they have the opportunity to plead, and we, remember, only a year ago and something we didn't have any rights, no matter what we were MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7544	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7545	I'm reporting from Article 96. The Rules of Procedure, because my words are misread. I don't think the government's going fast at all, and if it's going fast, it's got the wrong orientation, so it's rushing in the wrong direction. Therefore, it is moving away from the objective of speeding up steps, and the aim of this law is to accelerate and effectively protect citizens' rights. I warn all citizens who have disputes before the court that their rights will be resolved even slower under this law. Those disputes that last ten and twenty years will last and still be so long. This is just one make-up that didn't allow the process to end efficiently and quality. During the debate in detail on each individual member, we will explain why this law is both constitutional and conflicting with the Constitutional Charter, which is the fact that on the Legislative Committee 6-5 it was voted in accordance with the Constitution. That says what half the members of the Legislative Committee think about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7546	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment that deletes this unfortunate formulation from this draft law on litigation, which says that parties and the court will strive before and during the procedure to resolve civil and legal disputes through mediation – mediation or in another peaceful way. This formulation has a few controversial things. First of all, the question arises how will the court seek before the procedure for civil-legal disputes to be resolved peacefully. Whether judges will go door-to-door on the weekends, and offer their good services, ask the citizens if they might have something to think about to file a lawsuit, and then persuade them not to. The role of the court is exhausted and exists only in the context of the proceedings. No court can have any role before the proceedings, and this is therefore completely pointless and unnecessary. Secondly, why is it written here that the court will try to settle civil-law disputes? What other actions can be dealt with under the law of litigation? I hope the court doesn't try to get the neighborhood to be, but only in the process. It can always and only apply to that procedure being conducted in accordance with the law on litigation. We have offered a much better solution and a formulation – that the court will allow the parties during the proceedings to settle the dispute by intermediation in another peaceful way, with this not to be used to avoid the obligations of Articles 2 and 3 of this Law. In fact, it is known that in the practice of mediation it has not brought much good. We agree that mediation, i.e. intermediation as a possibility, should remain in the Law on Procedural Procedure, but there are very few cases, especially in the proceedings and disputes that last 10, 15 or 20 years, that and because of the dispute itself, but because of the high costs of the courts that arise over the years after several years, any dispute exists between the parties. What is important for the SRS is to limit itself in this position, i.e. in Article 11, so that the court cannot go too far in its efforts, that it cannot delay the main debate and tell the parties: "No, we will not debate today, you go and agree." The principle declared in Article 2 is essential. – that is, numerous international conventions have been declared to be signatories – which is the right of parties to legal, equal and fair protection of their rights. Then, the declaration that the court cannot refuse to decide on a request for which it is competent and the right referred to in Article 3(3) where it says that the court will not allow parties to be made available, which is contrary to mandatory regulations, public order and moral rules. Therefore, Article 11 must not be used to circumvent the rights that are in the former members, thus and more important, given to the parties and cannot be used to abuse procedural opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7548	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7549	I think the best solution for Article 11 would be to be deleted, because it can prove its complete nonsense. First, why does the law stipulate that the parties will try to settle something peacefully? This can be written in the newspaper by the president of the state – I ask all parties to settle civil-legal disputes peacefully, without a court. If it's already in court, isn't that a peaceful solution? What is this still a peaceful way to resolve a dispute if it is not in court? If it had been said here that the peace-making community would seek to settle the dispute peacefully before the trial, I could accept it, but that the court is working on a procedure to resolve civil-law dispute peacefully. Then what is the function of the court, what is its purpose, what is the function of the trial and what is the purpose of the trial? I think the trial before the court is a peaceful settlement of the dispute, in accordance with the law. When the parties come to court, the court will settle the dispute in a peaceful manner. Who's the court that he's working with the parties before the proceedings are closed to settle the dispute without a court? Will everyone who comes into any conflict be obliged to notify the court? Whenever you have a dispute, you first inform the court and you say - we offer you a procedure to settle it peacefully, not to judge. What is the purpose of the judgment, that it may sustain the judgment, and not that it may bring peace upon the citizens? I didn't see that we got the government's opinion on the amendments, but under the old rule that governments treat MPs, I'm pretty sure we didn't even get the government's views on the amendments, or someone from the ruling majority got them, and we don't get them from the opposition. If the motioner had just kept himself on the bill more seriously, and I know he was capable of such a thing, he would have realized that the SRS parliamentary group did not write amendments to have something to discuss with this pay phone, but in order to fix the law needed by Serbia. In an explanation for the urgent procedure, the proponent says that for such a large law, it proposes an emergency procedure because it is of importance for joining the European Union. Now I'm telling you that for 15 years it can take work to pass this law, as close as we are to joining the European Union. This emergency procedure has no explanation, no grounds for an emergency procedure, no grounds for this avoidance of the debate in principle, which you lightningdly carried out in the morning. Now face a debate on the amendments. We're ready for that debate. If you had a little more willingness to interpret the amendments of the SRS, and there were amendments from another parliamentary group, you would understand that you are proposing a very serious law. It may not touch the MPs, but this law touches almost every citizen in Serbia. It took a little more serious attention to him, to eliminate the disputes we already point to in the process of passing the law. How many judges are going to do it in practice, I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7550	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the bill of law, and in the part relating to the argument, page 4, when it comes to the procedure for resolving the issue, the Proposer calls for Recommendation number P (95) 5 of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I own that recommendation and that recommendation with this mild connection has nothing to do with it. Brothers and sisters Members of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, are going through our cowardly eggs. It does not bear this recommendation, to which the explanation of the call, under heading P (95) 5, but to bear, above all, the label – Recommendation P (95) 5 on the introduction and improvement of civil appeal procedures and business cases. It has nothing to do with solving the issue. Therefore, you can see how the motionary dared to deceive 250 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7552	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7553	Dear People's MPs, I support Mr. Sarovic's amendment, for the reason that this bill provides for the possibility of disputes being resolved by mediation, he said, during and before the procedure. The court may not, before the proceedings, either, because neither the party nor the dispute, because the proceedings are initiated by a lawsuit and the court is never empowered to launch a lawsuit, but it is expressed through the principle of disposition which gives parties the right to appeal and to determine a litigator, contained in and border civil law protection. Thus, without a lawsuit, there is no case, so it is not clear how a judicial court will be able to mediate, or settle the dispute peacefully before the dispute itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7554	The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7555	I'm sorry the minister isn't here. In his absence, I'll say I owe him an apology, and you'll tell him. In fact, I completely overlooked the fact that there were some public debates, except she wasn't loud enough for me to find out, but there was. I trust the Minister completely. So I apologize for those words I said there was no public debate at all. As for Article 11, there is something absurd about that article. I'm not opposed to mediation. Mediation is a fine attempt to free-distribute and dispose of the rights of the parties, to agree on a party solution and to avoid the court, or to correct the effectiveness of the protection of rights. I'm not particularly opposed to mediation, because the late Professor Bartosh has defined the court case as a procedure in which a man enters as a pig and comes out as a sausage. A court case is a difficult procedure and no one feels very comfortable in it. That's why every mediation is like a way of solving a correct thing. However, there is something very illogical here, and these are very well noted by colleagues from the Radical Party. In fact, it is said that the parties and the court will strive both before and during the proceedings. The procedure under Article 186 is initiated by the appeal. So, the lawsuit hasn't been filed yet and the court will try to mediate. Well, the court doesn't know, gentlemen. The court doesn't know at all that someone's going to press charges and seek the protection of some of their rights. I'm a little bothered with the Radical Party's proposal to protect members two and three, but it's basically a healthy idea. You adopt that idea and you simply solve the problem, to open up the possibility of mediation, but not before, because it's rather impossible. He doesn't know the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7556	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support Mr. Tom Nikolic's proposal to delete this member. I really think that the place of this member of the law is absolutely excessive, in fact, that he has no place in this law. Writers of this text who wrote that the party has the right to decide within a reasonable period of time or do not know Serbian or know what this means. I suppose it should be said that the court is obliged to decide within a reasonable period of time and that if it does not, it must suffer sanctions, consequences. He says, "The court is obliged to strive." I'd like someone to translate that into Serbian. What does that mean? This means that we will have some comical situation in court, when the party comes and says to the judge: "Come on, the judge is trying, because you are obliged to try." This really speaks of the inevitability of some solutions in this law, and litigations and disputes are really the life thing of our citizens because sometimes they take away all of our youth, disputes last deep into old age, and some don't live to settle their disputes and leave their children to be separated property-legal relations with the property they leave behind. Therefore, the most honest thing would be to delete this member and accept it. Of course, there is no reasonable citizen of Serbia who would not accept a peaceful solution to the dispute as a way to regulate mutual legal relations. But the way it's supposed to be here, it just leads to a delay in the process. Citizens in Serbia are told, "Don't just go into civil litigation," at least it's said in my area. I'm afraid the citizens of my neighborhood will say, "Don't just throw us into mediation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7558	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7559	People's talk alignment is not a new category formed only by this law. It exists, it's always been and it's going to exist. As far as the parties are free to dispose of their requests, there are so many open spaces that they are being negotiated, discussed, negotiated, agreed and otherwise settled by some dispute, whether or not the court intervenes in the light of the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure and that it comes to the truth, or it accepts their agreement, which is not contrary to the basic principles set out in Article 3(3) of this Act. Somehow, we've been followed by this Article 3rd Section 3 for 40 years. That member almost doesn't change. What confuses is the fact that this provision is contained in basic provisions and that it is really foolishly written, that it can even sound rudely in one translation, and in fact, by logic of things, when it is in basic provisions it should represent something on which a certain institute is based in the Law on litigation. What's he based on? It is based on the fact that from the provision of Articles 322 to practically 329 of the members, the settlement procedure has been regulated. The procedure has been regulated. Then what should be in Article 11? So in the chapter on basic principles, there should only be a provision that the court has an obligation to allow parties to come to a solution through mediation and alignment of a disputed relationship which the court would accept but provided that this is not contrary to what is stated as the basic principle in Articles 2 and 3. So, if something is prescribed in Article 11, then it must be prescribed in such a way that the court does not take it as a possibility for some kind of abuse, because "the court will try," it can be interpreted as a judge, an individual at any time can say, "Let's try to make peace and I'll postpone the hearing, so let's see, let me know for so much and so much." Now, that is the conduct of a judge who would interpret Article 11. The bill's proposal should be stopped in this way, and that is why this formulation has been given that the court should not prevent, it should allow parties, and the parties will likely, before they decide to initiate the procedure, to try to achieve some alignment. When you look at the context in which article 11 is written “before the start of the proceedings” and you see the provisions on judicial alignment, you will see that they missed the topic. Of course, they missed the subject, first of all in Article 11. And now we're essentially trying to make it right. I say we bring article 11 into line with provisions 322 to 329. The government says no, some professors wrote this. It's changed language. It took little to change our existing Law on Prosecution. In all, there are no more than 20 members to be changed. That law is good. The fact that the practice is bad, which is a misuse, is a matter that has to be regulated by the Law on Order of Courts, the Law on Judges, and you will see in the follow-up the debate in five places what essentially belongs to the Law on Courts and the Law on Courts is inserted into the Law of Criminal Procedure. Why would that burden the party? Why would a litigator burden the relationship between a first-degree court and a second-degree court? The party doesn't care. If they were already going to adjust something then they could rewrite the provisions of some of the laws that these things had done in a perfectly good way. However, our law on litigation is a good law. It was probably necessary to change, to comply with 20 provisions. There are some things here that are commendable. The length of the lawsuit for disturbing possessions in the first-degree procedure has been limited, up to 90 days, which is good. It's a good thing you're seriously heading towards the preparatory hearing, but it's no good that the answer to the appeal, the answer to the suit, is set as a mandatory submission. So it can't be a mandatory submission, because, contrary to the principle of disposition, the free will of the parties involved and in this context they go as far as to deny the party's ability to some parties. If this law, like this, votes and applies, be assured, it will bring us back at least 40 years, not 20, not 30, but 40 years. And maybe more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7560	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 11 of the bill introduces one of the possibilities for the parties to reach an agreement i.e. to conclude the extrajudicial and later court settlement. During the discussion on this amendment, two words were mentioned – the foundation and the effort. There is no doubt that when a new institute is introduced into our litigation process, the Institute of Mediation, it is necessary to regulate that possibility as part of the basic provisions. As for the word insistence, the provisions of the proposed law on mediation do not state that the court is obliged to lead the parties during the mediation process to the final agreement. He only gives them that opportunity, within a very clearly armed 30 - day period, and in that sense is a clear word to try. Mediation is a procedure within which parties try to present facts and a deal with mediators, determined by the president of the court, resolve their dispute before entering the main debate. In that sense, it is a clear provision in Article 11 that the court seeks to do so. So there is no court duty to lead the party to a negotiated process in mediation. Of course, it would be a problem to put the word insistence in the context of the main debate that in no way do we have here in the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7562	The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not necessary to firmly defend the provision of Article 11 but should be seen in one reasonable way what is proposed by it, and what is proposed by the amendment to the representatives of the SRS. Namely, first of all, we have a foreign term, the mediation is a narrow, specialized, one import term. We have different terms in our language, and we can say it in a completely different way. What I want to point out is that I will consider this amendment from that aspect of the procedure, because I fully accept what my colleagues have said that this cannot apply to the proceedings before the lawsuit is filed. It's in the nature of our people's affairs to press charges and it's in the nature of our people to seek the truth and to judge. Only when the court proceedings begin by filing an action and an adequate position and one normal trial and one normal execution of evidence, one by a completely correct position of the judicial authority, can the parties be called upon to conclude a certain settlement. It's the only way and the only way we can get to mediation or mediation. The parties will understand at one point that it is best for them to settle a certain dispute in a peaceful manner and for these reasons to strive, means to conduct the right procedure, not to ask the parties to align them. I've had a chance to hear that certain judges are practicing how the parties are going to urge the parties to align. I think it's one wrong thing to do and that's not how it should be done. Such coercion is not in favour of either the court or the parties. So, only the moment the parties find out themselves that they're better off settling the dispute peacefully, they'll sort it out. By the way, our practice shows that people by nature have had their instincts for justice and that they want their justice to drive them out to be heard, to see it, and that's why they come to the courtroom and they won't listen to the mediators. The previous government tried certain mediations in court proceedings, and therefore certain older personnel, people from experience, tried, came to courts, examined cases, did so, persuaded, wrote, and very little of it succeeded. So, I suggest that this amendment of the SRS be fully adopted, because it is life-threatening, reasonable and completely logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7564	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted to the 34th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 34 paragraph 3, provides: "If, in the case referred to in Article 2 of this article, the prosecutor obviously too high or too low marked the value of the case of the dispute, the court will, at the latest at the preparatory hearing, and if the preparatory hearing has not been held, then, in the main debate, before the debate on the main matter begins, quickly and in a convenient manner, verify the accuracy of the marked value." We have put the amendment that Article 34 is amended and reads: "If, in the case referred to in Article 2 of this article, the prosecutor is obviously too high or too low to mark the value of the case of the dispute, or has not marked, the court will, at the latest at the preparatory hearing, and if the preparatory hearing is not held, then, in the main debate, before the debate on the main matter begins, determine the value of the case of the dispute." The substance of this amendment is that an inaccurate and undefined formulation is quickly and in a convenient way to verify and replace the accuracy of the marked value by giving the court a solution that will determine the value of the case of the dispute. This is because the situation arises that the value of the case is too high or too low and in such a situation the Court does not matter in which way it will verify whether, quickly or in any other appropriate way, it is important to determine what the value of the case is. The determination of the approximately exact value of the case is necessary in the interests of both parties and the courts and the state, since the value of the case depends on the statement of the legal remedy, the determination of the court fee, and perhaps the costs of the proceedings. Therefore, one abuse could be removed in this way when the value of the dispute is determined too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7566	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this is a very good solution and that the court has an obligation to determine at a certain stage of the proceedings in an appropriate manner the level of the claim. The value of the dispute depends, depending on it, on the composition of the court, so it is very often the basis and the way in which the abuses of certain cases are committed in certain courts. If the value of the dispute is too low, the individual judge will judge in certain cases. If the judge is a corrupt, corrupt or accepted individual for friendly reasons to assist a party in the proceedings, this is one way to avoid a court case higher than the jurisdiction to act in certain cases, thus allowing parties and unconscious judges to channel the cases and vertically to certain judicial councils. Therefore, the Court has a multiple role to play in determining the value of the dispute. First, which determines the amount of the tax from which the budget is charged and the resources for the normal operation of the courts are provided, and on the other hand, the jurisdiction of the judge of an individual or a judicial council shall be determined. In our amendment, we also envisioned a complaint about a solution that determines the value of the dispute. This is precisely for reasons to prevent abuses or excessive powers of individuals who abuse and establish and influence the value of the dispute to individual unconscious parties. It is legal protection for parties in the procedure that they can, through the value of the dispute, secure the composition of the court as recognised by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7568	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7569	Ladies and gentlemen, we from the Democratic Party, although we will not support this law, and I think that the current course of debate has already shown a number of failures, we do not dispute the promoter of good intentions. But we are challenged here that we are criticizing the government, the Ministry, the pronouncing that they are going too quickly. No, by not voting, we don't prove that we're against one law that isn't ideological at all. He is in the interest of all Serbian citizens and has no ideological features. Why are we against him? Because it does not contribute to the citizens of Serbia and their interests. For example, we are also discussing the Implementing Procedure Act and I can reveal to you the secret that we will accept and vote for it, but this law, which is a crucial law, which is passed this quickly and which in important things only hinders progress, regardless of what some members have and some innovations that can be accepted, cannot be accepted. Working on such a large law, for which it took five to ten years for other countries to pass it, the very fact that we are quick to bring it without serious public debate, without basic preparation, says that neither social or legal consciousness has been sufficiently developed. This amendment solves something crucial. What's the matter? In that foreign investors don't come to us because our legal order is insecure, and above all our litigation, our civil proceedings in general, and they have serious objections to our court's independence, impartiality, but also to the very rules, on speedy decision-making. That hurts us, our interests, because we can't secure it in a short time, which is obviously one fair, quick and satisfactory trial for a foreign partner. So it's not only our citizen's foreign partner, he's concerned primarily by him, the foreign investor, and that's why he's asking for a short time to regulate effectively procedural issues and its protection. In this amendment, we propose, along with a Article 63 in which it is already allowed, that I pay particular attention to this because the Committee has made observations that no local jurisdiction can be resolved by this law. It can, because it is already foreseen, see Article 63, where the Supreme Court has been given the right to determine local jurisdiction in the event of a dispute. We went one step further, so we said that in all disputes with the element of abroad, the Supreme Court can but does not have to create specialised courts with excellent judges, with judges who have special education in Serbia in two or three places, such as Novi Sad, Nis, Belgrade. It would be courts who would know that they solve these things quickly and efficiently, and that's what we need, because it's in our best interest to get to foreign capital as soon as possible, to make the foreign investor happy, so we extended it to domestic companies that operate under domestic laws, but where foreign capital participation is or where the participant is a foreign person in a disputed relationship like the emancipator, creditor, investor, performer, etc. We have a situation that if the defendant is in Bor we will go to the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar, if he is in the King we will go to the Court of Commerce in the King, if he is in Užica then to Užica etc. These are usually major disputes and can be resolved at no great cost to parties who always have large funds. Whether he travels to Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, it is not a problem for him, and solves essentially one competent, specialised court that the Supreme Court could determine in each of these three places. This would achieve rapid efficiency and a quick solution to the burning problem that puts us abroad if our courts were who they are. They are, indeed, because they are not used to this kind of dispute and we have not lived in such a society where we have had many disputes with the element of abroad and with a lot of foreign capital participation. This is not about changing the actual jurisdiction but about changing the local jurisdiction, as already provided for in Article 63 that the Supreme Court can determine. Thank you for your attention. I think this is a crucial question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7570	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7571	Ladies and gentlemen, it is this very chapter of the Law on Procedural Procedure that regulates local jurisdiction and is the reason for my assessment that it is a law that is contrary to the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution of Serbia. We have submitted an amendment to Article 63 because we believe that only in that part is it possible to amend this law. I have not submitted amendments to all the provisions relating to local jurisdiction, although with such a quick reaction and solutions, the government has just defined that Serbia-Montenegro is no longer in the community. The way in which the local courts are regulated is absolutely contrary to the Constitutional Charter solutions, although there is an obligation for all the laws of the Member States to comply with the Charter. It is defined here that in disputes against the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the court is in charge of the institution's headquarters. This means that we have forced the citizens of Montenegro to conduct disputes in disputes against the ministry or the state union in Serbia. At the same time, it is contrary to the Law on a litigation procedure in force in Montenegro, so that we have a positive and negative conflict of jurisdiction in a very large number of disputes. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? A positive conflict of jurisdiction means when two courts from Serbia-Montenegro's territory, both of them sound competent for the same litigation, and there is no institution that will resolve the conflict, or when a Serbian citizen is in a position to press charges in Serbia-Montenegro and that no court accepts jurisdiction to resolve such a legal dispute. It envisions jurisdiction for disputes against the Serbia-Montenegro Army as determined by its headquarters, i.e. the institution. This means that Serbia-Montenegro's military has been torn apart by this law. If someone has a soldier who died in Serbia-Montenegro's Army, and he has parents, brothers and sisters in Serbia-Montenegro, it is not clear how they would exercise their rights when, under general rules, they have the right to compensate for the immaterial damage to where the damage occurred. There are objections here and throws that have a purely political background, but the essence of life is people who have problems that have been caused by an accident precisely in these institutions that will have a problem achieving their basic rights to immaterial harm, i.e. to support minors or incompetent persons. It'll be life's problems. A person who is a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro if he has property abroad, the foreign prosecutor can sue him only in Serbia's territory, only in front of domestic courts. Only courts in Serbia are predicted as domestic courts. That means the courts in Montenegro are foreign courts. The question arises how legal aid will function between Serbia-Montenegro courts in terms of the law. Are the decisions of the courts in Montenegro foreign to the court's decision? Are they subject to international legal traffic and international recognition rules? In this way, by quick reaction and by trying to show the government is doing something, she has made a solution that has far-reaching political consequences. The particular question is -- it is addressed to those who say it is a mistake of Serbia's president to call on Serbian citizens in Kosovo to come out and vote -- the question of court jurisdiction right on KIM. Those questions aren't settled here. There are a number of problems with courts that have been removed from the KIM territory that work here on Serbia's territory. The problems are many employees of people or those who perform the functions of judges in these courts who have been unscheduled for many years. All of this kind of fast-tracked solution is even more complicated by the problems we face in the judiciary. I would like the minister of justice to explain to me what the term "faces that do not have general local authority in the Republic of Serbia" means. Can a person have a local jurisdiction or a local jurisdiction have courts? A whole article in 52 is written in such a dictionary that is completely pointless. He says "persons who do not have general local authority in the Republic of Serbia". The courts shall have jurisdiction over certain persons under certain legal circumstances. I'd like to hear an explanation. By the way, I advocate that the amendment that we have submitted to Article 63 will be respected, but I do not expect the ministry to do, since of all the amendments we have proposed, it has brought only one word to the Law on the litigation of the "Photocopies" - that the parties have the right to do so in addition to the transcription and to the photocopy of the minutes. He only respected the word "photocopies" of everything that we have brought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7572	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not a questionable desire to protect and speed up the possibility of permanent investment in Serbia, but it is doubtless that this amendment to Article 63 cannot contribute, since it is contrary to the Law on Permanent Investments and to the Law on Businesses and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that a foreign person establishes and invests his capital in a domestic company makes him a domestic legal person. The question arises as to why we need to act inequitablely and place a legal person in an unequal position on the territory of the Republic of Serbia regardless of what their capital property is. There is no doubt that such an amendment can cause other companies to react to the territory of the Republic of Serbia because all of this has been regulated by the Company Act and could require that local jurisdiction be established for them as well. Foreign capital protection can be achieved in different ways but cannot be put into an unfair position or favouring such legal persons who have part of that capital, especially when it is done at the expense of the legal persons of the undertaking in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who have equal treatment under the laws still in force. If we were to amend these laws and predict such an option, we could think in that direction as set out in this amendment. I suggest that this amendment is not adopted because it is contrary to the Foreign Investment Act and to the Company Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7574	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7575	The MPs of the SRS will not vote in favour of this amendment, and an additional argument was provided by the proponent with his reasons. It is unnatural that just because there are elements abroad, you determine a court that will judge by the same law. There's no other law. But because there are elements abroad, someone invested money based on bail or as an investor, performer or otherwise, so now let's determine two or three courts that will only judge such disputes. What's the specialization of these judges? One court interpreter and a dispute is brought before every court. If a participant in the dispute does not know the Serbian language or any official language in use in Serbia, a judicial interpreter and a dispute is conducted before each court. Every court must be trained to conduct disputes under this law. It would be only a violation of the Constitutional Charter based on human and citizen rights and freedoms. I want us all to be equal in front of the law and court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7576	The word is from Ambassador Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7577	I know that we are politicians of general practice and I know that Mr. Nikolic is not an education lawyer. For this reason and for the truth, I must tell him that it is true that the procedure is conducted under this law and when it is a foreign enterprise and when it is domestic and regardless of the control of capital, etc., but other than this law which will apply judges, it will also apply a material or material right that can be foreign. As a result, specialization is desirable, not due to the application of the Law on Prosecution. Each domestic court shall apply domestic law on litigation, but other than the procedure conducted under the CAP shall also apply a material law which shall metrically resolve the legal issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7578	Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7579	I'd just like to further explain my position, which is not based on legal knowledge. We had 1,300 privatisations and if there were 2,000 partners from abroad, the question is how many special courts we need if there is a dispute in each one. I'm telling you that there will be a dispute in almost every privatisation done during your reign since we will eventually review all privatisations. Any contract that was not in accordance with the Privatisation Act or any conduct of my contract that was in accordance with the law will be void. How many special courts do we need, because all of our privatisations mostly went through foreign faces? I wish you'd trained your domestic economy to buy out our businesses. You flew in to sell it to strangers, mostly with several locations from the Pacific or from the Atlantic, but why? Your explanation is that we are not in any transition. If we were really a country in the transition in which foreign capital took off, you would never talk about only two or three courts being able to settle disputes with foreign elements. Then we need 20, 50, 100 courts with elements abroad. But there's no foreign capital here. On that side, you're right. So much capital went in that it wouldn't pay off if no court had a special purpose just for that. I accept that you have had the good will to submit this amendment, but it is unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7580	Thank you. Replica, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7581	Here's the thing. No matter how many privatisation disputes we have, as the speaker said earlier, there will be so many disputes. Whether he's going to be in front of a special or non-special court, that doesn't matter. There'll be so many disputes if there are. First, I don't believe that any legal relationship will be in a dispute, and secondly, if there are, let them be solved by these special courts. The bottom line is that we de facto trained judges and courts in the whole state so that we can lead a dispute with the elements of abroad we really don't have and that's the general conclusion of all the experts here. We can love our country, whatever we want, we can love our judiciary, we can be effectively very attached to it, but de facto we don't have it. That's what we have yet to create and we can only create if we have special courts. That's what this is about. Moreover, the proposal does not say that it must be but that the Supreme Court will consider and decide whether it should be. This is one possibility given to the Supreme Court in Article 63, and it should have as that possibility, depending on how many of these disputes are in place and how it can be resolved. It is not something that must be, it is the authority of the Supreme Court to determine three courts or two courts or one court that will decide on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7582	Replica, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7583	I am surprised that the legislator, the minister of justice, is not responding to this statement that would have really represented the Serb judiciary's sunflower. If we don't have courts in such disputes to judge, how we're going to take over trials from the UN tribunal, how we're going to prosecute war crimes in the face of domestic courts. The easiest thing to say is that we're not capable of anything at all. Then the question arises if we weren't able until the day you came to power, how and in these three years we haven't been able to qualify for civil-law cases, and what we're going to do with guilt, war crimes. I don't feel so bad about the judiciary, even though you've mutilated it in the last three years. Not you, predecessor, but there are MPs here who directly influenced it and who have applied the Lustration Act only in the judiciary and at the university. And the actors are here. They're sitting in the O.R. And those who were directly lustrating in the judiciary and those who were lustrating at the university. Why don't they bring in the good ones, the better? It wasn't a motive just to run off and bring in some that after three years you say are no longer capable of anything? How did you treat our judiciary that you are now accusing yourself of the condition you've made in the judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7584	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7585	About this debate, about this amendment. I'm not answering because I've been called, but I really want to say that it's not right to say that the courts aren't capable. As far as I know, even a good number of the best judges of trade courts have come from the inside to a higher trade court. So I don't generally accept that division for Belgrade and other courts in the interior. Here is the problem of another species, not because of this inequality which is highlighted, entities in legal traffic and the relationship of parties before the court, but because this way is pleaded that through the provision of local jurisdiction we form a new court, a new kind of court – which is illegal. We have a law that predicts when it can be determined and how, and we also have a constitutional provision that requires that courts are unique, and that these kinds of courts can be established. Therefore, this other reason is also very important to me, because it does not give the opportunity to establish a special court. Because the Supreme Court has the possibility, it has as a general opportunity to eventually delegate any court in the country, if for some reason that court cannot judge. This has nothing to do with the fact that in this way, a special court should be established through that provision of local jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-02-0.u7586	Since you're looking for a word more, and it's close to 1800 hours, we're finishing today's work. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00.
