ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7108	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all a good day, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 218 MPs present today. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Natasa Micic are prevented from attending. Since the National Assembly completed the debate on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, in principle and in particular, pursuant to Article 148(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby set Tuesday, October 19th 2004, at 16.32pm, as a day for voting on this agenda item. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. IN THE framework of this point, we decide on proposals for decisions to give consent to decisions on changes to the financial plans of compulsory social insurance organisations for 2004, namely: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees; (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers; (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Independent Work; (g) the Republic Health Insurance Office; (d) the National Employment Services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, in principle. For 128, against 90, of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the draft law, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Predrag Markovic to article 6 with the correction and amendment of MP Milos Aligrudic to Article 7. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 127, with 12 abstentions, 10 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 112, two abstentions, 87 did not vote, of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric and Slavoljub Matic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 195, three abstentions, no vote of 20, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 115, with three abstentions, did not vote 82, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 115, it did not vote 86 out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 126, 27 of the 222 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 118, they did not vote 83, of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 127, they did not vote 24 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, they did not vote 22, of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milorad Krstin. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 105, they did not vote 83, of the 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 121, 78 of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 132, 19 of the 224 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 129, they did not vote 22, of the 224 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004 as a whole. For 128, against 96, of a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. Having adopted the Bill amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, we move to a decision on the proposals made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for decisions to amend the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations for 2004. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees for 2004. For 128, against 96, of a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2004. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers for 2004. For 128, against 95, not one of the 224 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for farmers for 2004. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2004. For 128, v, 96, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2004. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2004. For 128, against 96, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2004. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2004. For 128, against 95, not one of the 224 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2004. We voted in favour of all decisions and budget rebalances for 2004. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received the resignation of Dr Predrag Bubal as Minister for Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly notes that Dr Predrag Bubalo resigned as Minister for Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have a motion to consider an emergency procedure. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, has proposed that, in accordance with Article 158(3), Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, on the agenda of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, put an end to the proposal for the election of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 October 2004, with a proposal for this point to be considered as the second item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against 96, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA (Milos Aligrudić: By Business. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7109	I would like to propose to the Assembly that we work on the 2nd item of the agenda until the debate is over and the vote on all proposals on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7110	Thank you. I am putting to the vote Mr Aligrudic's proposal to extend the assembly's work until the debate and vote on the 2nd item of the agenda. For 125, against 95, not four votes, of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm informing everyone, in accordance with Article 38. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, authorised representative of the parliamentary group for the 2nd item of the agenda -- a proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, before the SRS will be MP Aleksandar Vukic. (From the Hall: He will not be before the party, but in the congregation. ) I apologize, I read what it says, please, if you want to read it differently, next time, write it differently. You have received a proposal from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia: Dr Predrag Bubalo for Minister of Economy, Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic for Minister of Education and Sports and Dr Milan Parivodić for Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Since these sessions are attended by members of the government and it's time for the Prime Minister to explain this item of the agenda, he's coming down right now. Please, in accordance with the respect of the National Assembly, we will wait for the majority of the government members and the Prime Minister to be present. I thank all MPs and members of the government for their patience. Does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, want to explain the proposal? He wants to. Here you go. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7111	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the election of three ministers is a good cause and an opportunity to address the Assembly, which was entrusted to me eight months ago with the mandate and the duty to lead this government. I'm saying it's a good cause because it's about three important portfolios and a proposal to elect three ministers in these important resolutions. The government, I want to point out immediately, this way shows that it represents a team capable of changing, strengthening its ranks to make the results even better. I will immediately start from something that, in those less than eight months, was the primary goal of our government, which is general stabilisation in our Republic, which means stabilising economic, political and social opportunities, of course, the establishment of an entire system of norms and institutions. There have been a lot of experiments in this country in the past decades. This government has been defined as the path of building deep foundations and solid structures of an institutional building. Our goal was, and remains, to build a house where the present generations will feel better and where they will find their place for future generations. We've defined a few phases that we have to go through towards the goal, and that goal is stabilisation. So, a stable Serbia, which is on both sides in the democratic order, secured by the rule of law, Serbia in which the market economy, which lives in peace and co-operation with its neighbours, is certainly seeking regional co-operation and European integration. Finally, it is Serbia not isolated, not alone, but that achieves these goals in a solid state connection with Montenegro. Of course, the objectives and resources in politics are inseparable and I want to point to the means in which these objectives can be achieved. The first means are to set clear, firm legal rules, which will enable us, as a society, to achieve internal stability and to accelerate the convergence of European integration. I will remind you of what we all know well, that clearly the European government has so far initiated the adoption of more than 50 laws and that 20 more important system laws have been prepared. These laws day by day show their practical importance to all citizens of our country. When it comes to legislation, it in principle and by European standards is not enough for itself. If there are laws, they need to be implemented, and good administration and a valid, therefore, independent judiciary is needed to enforce the law. In these two areas, the government has started serious reforms. It will soon adopt a state administration reform strategy, a proposal for a government law already exists, a draft law on public agencies, followed by drafts of several important laws in this area of state administration reform. It's about government law, public servants and others. Laws in the field of justice almost do not need to be spoken of, since most of these laws have been discussed in the Serbian Parliament and, I may say, improved by the debate held in the Serbian Parliament. It is our wish, of course, not only that there are good laws on paper, but that these legislative activities also produce concrete results in the area of economy and improvement for all our citizens. The macroeconomic developments in the first eight months of this year were marked by significant economic recovery, especially in the industry, agriculture, construction, telecommunications sector. Industrial production increased by 6.9% over the first eight months of 2004 compared to the same period last year. Gross social product growth is expected to range from 8% in 2004. In the first eight months of 2004, a high foreign trade deficit of 4.5 billion dollars was recorded and a reduction of this deficit is one of the government's priorities in the coming period. In terms of significantly higher rates of economic growth than planned, price increases in the first nine months of 2004 ranged above the planned framework. Inflation, measured by price growth, was 9.2%, and the dinar course followed this trend. This, we all know, has contributed significantly to the rise in oil and base metal prices on the world market of about 3%. In order to speed up price growth in May-July 2004, certain restrictive measures have been taken in fiscal and monetary policy. Maintaining production growth in the second and beginning of the third quarter of this year was the most contributed to the establishment and maintenance of political stability, a successful completion of negotiations and a continuation of the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, a 62% write-off agreement with the London Club of $1.7 billion. What is coming to us, it is also one of these means of strengthening stability in our country, is the adoption of a new Serbian constitution. As you know, the government has offered a draft constitution, trying to step up something that would be a compromise solution acceptable to all the political parties gathered in this assembly. Work on it will continue. In addition to this compromise that has already been made, the need for another compromise and the ruling majority is ready for this kind of compromise in the talks on the future constitution, simply because Serbia is in a hurry with the constitution, because the need for it to be adopted is too short, because reforms are partly and limited unless they are implemented on the very basis of state regulation by adopting a new constitution. The next strategically significant thing, which I pointed out in my March-month exposé, which tragic events have only accelerated, is solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija. After the March pogrom of Serbs, something that was at that moment a despair in Serbia and the concern of the entire society has been translated into the government's plan to resolve the cosmetic issue. The government's plan was unanimously adopted by the Serbian Parliament. The essence of the Serbian government's plan is a proposal for self-government for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, scattered across Kosovo and Metohija, concentrated only slightly more in the north, but all of them so scattered should gather, to give them adequate institutional guarantees through the model of territorial autonomy. After that, there was a considerable diplomatic activity of the government that, I must say, moved the dormant gin of the international community from a dead spot. The government's plan, however, was accepted as an equal basis for further decentralisation talks. On the one hand, the government plan of Serbia, on the other hand, the UNMIK Plan or, more specifically, its name -- the Framework for the Reform of Local Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija. The government, however, was not satisfied with this principle of acceptance, only by the fact that it was respected, in addition to UNMIK's plan, the existence of a Serbian government plan, and considers that what has been done so far in the talks conducted does not constitute a basis for Serbs to go to elections for the District Assembly scheduled for October 23rd. We are convinced that after five years of collective abuse, Serbs must receive secure guarantees from their own self-government, in order to join the cosmetic institutions of self-government, not once again be deceived and deceived. The government is sure, I want to point out a few days before the elections are held for the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, so that the country's single policy, as recently led, will achieve this goal. I must, unfortunately, realize that such a single policy has been violated, but nevertheless, the government is determined to continue to implement its policy defined by the plan adopted unanimously by the Assembly. The next strategy that the government has set, which it enjoys undivided support for both the Assembly and society, is a orientation towards European integration. Then, basically an unfavourable, third annual report by the European Commission at the beginning of this year on the position of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in the process of stabilising and joining and numerous talks with the most responsible officials of the European Union, the government accepted the proposal, the European Commission's proposal to continue this process towards the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but an agreement that would be followed by two annexes, which will specifically refer to economic, commercial and sectoral policies in two Member States. This has paved the way for us to write a study on feasibility and preparation for the conclusion of the agreement. This opens two significant benefits for Serbia: first, the economic part of the negotiations has been unblocked; secondly, it is not questioned by the state union, at least not by Serbia, which will continue to insist on integration rather than disintegration. In this place, of course, I would also like to remind you of the development of a national strategy for Serbia-Montenegro's accession to the European Union, which will be completed as a developed and detailed document by the end of this year. These are the main routes of government action. I can freely say that all of this that has been done in the previous period, which has been done over the past few months, the building of the vital rule of law, as well as the solid institutions in Serbia, has been gradually concluded. I'm sure that for less than eight months, the government has paved a good path in the daily race with time, despite numerous social problems, still existing incident situations, which is why what has often been done in a time relatively short, so less than eight months, and with maximum effort. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to you the candidates for the Serbian Government. Basic data on them from their biographies you have ahead of you and I want more...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7112	Excuse me, Mr. President, please, at 11.30 p.m. in all MPs' groups, the material is shared for all MPs. Please open the materials. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7113	There will be an opportunity to get acquainted with these biographies of ministers' candidates, although I will give some basic information about their portfolios and about them now. I want, therefore, to propose to the National Assembly for the new Minister of Education and Sports Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic. Serbia's government attaches special importance to education and sport, as it is more than important segments of society. The Ministry of Education and Sports has so far proposed several important laws, and one of them has been adopted, it is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System. The second law has been established by the Government; it is the anti-doping control law. Several important laws are under way in this area: it is the law on higher education, the law on textbooks, the law on elementary and secondary schools. All these legal projects will be presented to the Assembly by the end of the year. The Sports Development Council has been formed, where the most significant representatives of sports life are involved and that has started preparing a national strategy for sports development in Serbia. All of these institutional reforms, of course, need to provide a general framework, without which it is impossible to improve our education and education system. Economic reforms, meanwhile, leading the start of the economy, are the necessary basis for development and change in the education system, as the modern education system requires large funds. It is also important, when it comes to this resolution, that the Assembly chooses as soon as possible the National Educational Council, which as an independent expert body, composed of representatives of all relevant institutions, pedagogical and educational institutions, determine the direction of further development of our education, of course in accordance with the national educational tradition and the general standards of the European Union. I would especially like to express my great satisfaction with the current work of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, led by Predrag Bubalo, and to mention some of the more significant results that have been achieved. At the initiative of Minister Bubala, the ministry has created a new organisational structure that, apart from existing ones, has been complemented by two entirely new sectors. These are the foreign investment sector and the concession sector. It is this first sector for foreign investment that is the backbone of the activity in terms of foreign investment policy and promotion. By means of activities to attract foreign investment, i.e. restructuring of the Serbian economy, as one of the government's key priorities, serious developments have been made in the realisation of this goal; therefore, when it comes to foreign investment, the formation of a competent team involved and the adoption of an action plan to remove administrative barriers to foreign investment. The ministry of economic relations with abroad has done several important jobs, it has initiated deadlock issues when it comes to relations with bilateral character, and it concerns economic co-operation with individual countries. In this regard, I set out the continuation of the work of the business council with Germany, following a stalemate which was encountered when the Ministry was taken over, which is of particular importance for the future development of our economic relations with Germany. We also had a similar problem in the area of economic co-operation with Italy, which was largely blocked by disputes between Italy's Fiat and our flag, i.e. "Dufferka" and "Sartida". We have found the best solution, both for us and Italy, and as a result, the Fiat has, as is well known, written off a significant portion of the debt "The flag", which allows a much better perspective for our factory. In the wake of these good reactions by Italian businessmen and the Italian business community, the largest delegation of Italian businessmen has come to visit so far. The ministry of economic relations with abroad has been actively working and has been involved in negotiations on regulating the issue of Russian and Chinese debt. The ministry has been engaged and has been working on a serious restructuring of the Serbian economy and its branches, which we have estimated to have a serious export chance. The final example is the adoption of the Production Co-operation Regulation. I thank Minister Bubal for his work so far at the head of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad and for the new minister, I present Dr Milan Parivodic. Since May of this year, Minister Bubalo has been in charge, as you know, and co-ordinator at the Ministry of Economy. So I would also mention some of the significant results that have been achieved in this ministry. Instead of last year's stagnant growth this year, growth in production of over 6% is expected, based on the economic developments achieved in the first nine months, above the expected average growth in the region. During the government's term, the National Assembly passed several important system laws prepared by the Ministry of Economy. I remind you of them, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, the Act on the Agency for Commercial Registers, the Law on the bankruptcy procedure, the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. A draft law on companies has been drawn up, and in the final phase, the draft law on changes to the law in the area of privatisation is drawn up, following, from the very Law on Privatisation, the Act on the Action Fund and the Law on the Privatisation Agency. The adopted legislative solutions will significantly improve the conditions for the start-up of economic activity. I remind you of the fact that until now, it has been averaged to register companies for about 70 days, and this job will be done between five and ten days at the Agency for Business Registers. So we have received a registration process that saves time and money and is in line with the best practice of the European Union. During 2004, for the first six months, the privatisation process covered 155 companies, a income of 76.6m euros, provided 72.2m euros for investments and 2.6m euros for the social programme. Activities in financial and organisational restructuring of 67 large social enterprises have been stepped up. Finally, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia approves favourable loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. The Fund's 350-long-term investment programmes approved loans totalling 3.5 billion dinars this year. Realisation of these programmes will open more than 5,000 new jobs. In addition to the rapid development of underdeveloped municipalities, funding for 54 programmes has been granted and for the demosted municipalities of 47 programmes. I am sure that the two ministries, which Predrag Bubalo and his team have achieved, are the best recommendation for his election to serve as economy minister. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to choose Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic as Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and to choose Dr Milan Parivodic as Minister of Industry and Privatisation, Dr Predrag Bubal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7114	I thank the Prime Minister. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, which are three Social Democratic Party MPs, after five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 38(3), for the representative of the DS parliamentary group for the second session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, item 2 - Proposal for a selection of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was authorized in front of the Democratic Party parliamentary group Mr Dusan Petrovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 186(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a debate on the government's proposal to elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Alexander Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7115	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for the proposed members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I will say what are the reasons why we will not do so. I don't want to get into the technical problems presented to us by the president of the National Assembly by explaining and convincing us that we need to do everything in one day, along with the vote on budget rebalancing. In this kind of local and global trade, we will not participate in the SRS, and we are proud that none of Serbia's citizens will be able to attribute it to any Serbian radical. We, none of us from the SRS, have anything personal against the people who are proposed. We don't want to go into personal debates, whether these candidates, or what they gave us as their biographies, are enough to vote for them or not. Whether they deserve majority confidence or not, we will not even talk about their party or political definition. It's just, just a few things we're going to show which more speeches, it seems to me, about what you couldn't formally, but basically you could call technical editorials or technical changes within the government. Namely, the Prime Minister said he was extremely pleased with the work of one of the ministers, formerly co-ordinator at the Ministry of Economy. It's about Mr. Bubal, but then it moves him elsewhere, so he won't be the minister of economic relations with abroad anymore, because he was better at playing the role of co-ordinator than the minister. We are getting a new minister who will be a minister not because of such or such qualities, but because he has control over three parliamentary mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are going with a third minister, who we know little about in Serbia's political life, but we can believe the word or not of what is written about him here, because very little or almost nothing about him has been said about him by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. What we are against is a fundamental question that has no answer, with all the parameters that we can agree on or in part disagree with, which the Prime Minister has brought here. The question is: "Do Serbian citizens live better? Do Serbian citizens feel better? Do Serbian citizens have a higher standard of living? "I just think they don't have and we hear it, we feel every step, we hear from all people, we see, there's a growing number of poor people in Serbia, there's a growing number of people who are really robbed, there's a growing number of those who feel left behind, and there's a country, and there's more of those who promised the people that they're going to take care of. I do not separate the government of the Republic of Serbia from the president, as he spoke and promised people that they would have higher salaries, higher pensions, "to provide new jobs, and that as ambassador of our economy everywhere in the world" and much more. What have we seen? Nothing. Even in a report mentioned by the Prime Minister, the European Commission, which we also received from MPs, talk about a lot more to be done, about a lot of things we should change, but a lot of things we shouldn't accept, not because someone with some faith or quarrels, but simply because it would go to the expense of economic interests, primarily the citizens of Serbia. I just have to say, since I was amazed at the rhetoric of Mr. Prime Minister, who has repeated these European integrations more than 20 times this time, and our desire to enter European flows, I don't know why so much repetition and emphasis, why he didn't tell us what the European Commission said. No one is likely to mind Serbia's citizens being better off, but we are against it when it's used as a metaphor, and that's what Mr. Kostunica used to criticise with some other political parties. When it's used as a metaphor that, on the one hand, you're going to mark someone else who doesn't want to and who doesn't want to and, on the other hand, to say - yeah, I'm the same partner as some other who will obediently fulfill all the orders that come from that side. The question arises as to why the European Commission has not said that by 2012, there is no admission of other countries of the region, much closer to the EU than Serbia-Montenegro, to EU membership. So we have nothing to talk about for the next 10 years. It's our job to watch and talk, and to see how and how Serbian citizens can live better, and we don't fight politically about anything, not to fight with flossules, not to argue with half-truths, semi-factories and forgeries, you're for Europe, and you're not, you're for one thing, and you're for the other. No, let's see how we can make a strategy for a better life for Serbian citizens. How to start production. Says Mr. Kostunica 6% is increased production compared to the same period last year. Yes, but for what? Why, first of all? First of all, because of agricultural production, because of valuable, hardworking peasants, couples, agricultural producers, good and favourable weather conditions and everything else. So we were also praised when those in power were not responsible in 2002, and then one after the other factory was closed in Serbia. We've got a cut in our privatisation income. Seven months ago, we submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a parliamentary group of the SRS, a bill on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. Not to stop privatisation in Serbia, on the contrary, but to prevent any kind of possibility of setting up a tender or any other abuse, but to speed up the privatisation process and the arrival of foreign capital and new investments in Serbia. We've had a strange process in the past, and I'm not just tying it to this government. In this government and during this government, the process continued. And that's that we liberalized the import of everything: broom handles, believe it or not, you have completely liberalized imports, apples, plums, tomatoes, peppers, whatever you want. But that's why you have a restriction on investment and a restriction on the entry of capital into our country. This country interferes in amazing ways, when it's estimated that someone from the government is somehow at risk of a state interest. Now I'm telling you, there's been an affair of "Yugormedia", "Knjiza Miloša", "C market". What's our attitude? We cannot defeat them by political decisions, we cannot defeat them by restrictive and repressive measures, we must defeat them with a smarter economic policy to be led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If Mercator is willing to enter the third markets, to get, for example, for this market 37m euros, the unambiguous loan of his country, whether from foreign reserves, in another, third or any way, why is it our state is unable to provide Serbian companies, Serbian companies. If we can't do that much, we can do less, but we can get to it. We have to win money and smartness, not by restrictions, by imposing some new permits, by a later state reaction, which will also be semi-sensed ads in the daily paper to try to react and by non-economic measures to prevent what we have to economically prevent. These strange movements of the state and government are in contradiction. This should have been regulated differently in a different way to protect vital and economic ones, which are, by the way, national interests, and the most important national interest is the economic citizens of Serbia and the whole country, of course. In the Financial Market Corps, we have basic factors: the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund, the Central Register, the Securities Commission, the Court, the Government, the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Securities of Values. Many of these factors were able to bring more significant reforms, more significant changes, and not in a way that two or three days ago, Minister Bubalo said in an interview with a daily Belgrade newspaper – we want the Securities Commission to listen to the government of the Republic of Serbia. In the Financial Market Corps, the Securities Commission must behave as the court, in terms of state authorities, treats the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to have an independent position. (President Emilija Krstic: Are you using for the next ten minutes?) Yes. Therefore, it is the court that should have the same relationship with the government as with the Charter Commission with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There can't be any new pressure. That's what needs to change here. When we introduce these kinds of restrictions, we frighten foreign investors for disrespecting the principle of legal certainty. Fortunately, in this term, we had no law with retroactive fact as we had, of course, criminal nature in the previous period. That's what takes foreign investors away from our country. When they say that the state felt threatened, so political measures prevented what economic laws would have to allow, we have a problem. Then we have to prevent fresh capital from entering our country, and the country is crying out for fresh money and new capital. That's what we have to avoid in the future at all costs. Mr. Prime Minister says we have a general stabilisation of economic opportunities. When you have so many unemployed, such problems with the external trade deficit, the balance of payments, I don't think anyone can talk about stabilising economic opportunities. I think the basic objective of our economic policy must be fast, efficient, but fair and transparent privatisation, and from that start of production. Whether we can cover every social hole or not, it's impossible. You'll always have a problem with that, like any other government. It will partially cover the moment when we are able to start production, primarily industrial production, and when workers are returned to factories and when unemployment is reduced. Of course, that reduction of unemployment is not administrative and that it is not by 138 percent to increase the number of employees in the National Assembly, as it was done in the previous term, but rather by doing so with companies, small companies, which are able to fertilise capital, create excess values, create profits and places for new people, new employees. Mr Kostunica spoke -- a European defined government passed good laws, regional co-operation, European integration. No one is against it if it is in the interest of Serbian citizens and if every Serbian citizen sees some benefit. Let's see how much we've benefited from all this and what we've seen. In addition to increasing imports and increasing exports, the percentage observed, and that's what's most devastating for our economy, is hardly some kind of benefit and some benefit for our country we can see. I think that's what the citizens of Serbia feel good about, and that's why they're looking for change. Serbian citizens, above all, are looking for changes in economic policy. Here I am talking about these two ministries, the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, which should be just some sort of flow water heater for foreign investment, not for preventing them, for their arrival, for entering foreign capital. Of course, economic measures preserve what is vital to our community. On the other hand, we need to see what it is that the government, apart from creating general conditions, except for the bill, except for what the Assembly is doing, can speed up, how and how to use our money, to see at which interest rates, where our country's foreign exchange reserves stand with 2.1 percent, so some take 2.7 percent, so we don't know where the difference in interest rate is lost, and our businesses, our companies, of all that, have absolutely nothing. No stability has been provided in any way. The Prime Minister spoke of a 62% write-off to the London Club. It was supposed to be 66%, but I'm sure Mr. Kostunica is well aware of who is responsible, whose guilt is due to the purchase and payment of debts that private citizens from Serbia did not make to that amount of money. It took some information to give us. He says, "The constitution is the government's priority." The constitution, as the foundation of every state, as something upon which the rights and obligations of citizens are based, but which is real and which is the foundation of every state, we should have. We are prepared, as a political party, to negotiate what is necessary changes in the constitutional act that we currently have, to bring a new constitution. We also have no kind of problem, no ideological, no programming with it. But we must, first of all, government must work quickly and thoroughly on economic reforms, and politicians must agree on the fastest possible deadline, to see how we will do it and, in accordance with the people's desire for change, to go, after that, to elections at all levels. Mr Kostunica said that we, in the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted here, brought a model of territorial autonomy. We insisted, as the government of the Republic of Serbia also accepted, that the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia be brought into the paper unequivocally. We can discuss the territorial autonomy of Serbs within Kosovo and Metohija, but Kosovo and Metohija should not be drawn from the state-law system of the Republic of Serbia. Now I want to say a few words about what no medium will pass on. Namely, Janush Bugaski, the newspaper "Time", the most prominent American newspaper, which predicts and tells us what is going to happen, and Ramush Haradinaj, tells us the same thing in the past few days, that those who advocate the election of Serbs, that this particular exit should speed up the gain of Kosovo and Metohija independence, which should happen in September or the fall of next year. And Serbs would give legitimacy for meeting standards, minority rights, protecting the rights of the Serbian and other non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. The media that had Tanjug's translation of the text from the American Times didn't publish it at all. The question arises why, has anyone in Serbia intervened on this issue? Someone did. I think everyone knows from whose office. From the office of the President of the Republic, but no one will talk about it, no one will say a word about it, unfortunately, nor will the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We as the strongest political party in Serbia, and in particular our political leverage in Kosovo and Metohija is expressed, it is interesting, we have not been questioned by the most relevant media or political parties as our position is. Our attitude is clear. We must not give legitimacy and legality to Kosovo-Methohic Albanians to create an independent Kosovo. We cannot give that kind of legitimacy and legality to them. To return to what should be the primary task of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is economic policy and economic development of Serbia. It seems to me that in the previous period, I am confident that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will understand that, except for this kind of local-global political trade, which I was talking about, that we have an insufficiently clear policy of the social economy and economy, which should call on all those who would invest in Serbia, who would like to develop its economy, industry, which would invest in new businesses, which would make profits. The government of the Republic of Serbia must have an incomparably clearer policy on this issue. The government of the Republic of Serbia must have one single goal, which is how and how we can... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to start our economy, how to fight corruption as the greatest evil of today and how and how to bring about change in society. Serbian citizens no longer have patience, and that's not just the government, it's almost all politicians, because people want to see that they chose those they wanted and can bring them a better one. From everything we've heard, we've heard it's going to go on and on, everyone's doing great, and now it's going to work even better. I hope it's not a reward for some who enter the government to get one or two percent in the election. I hope that not the best of those ministers who have already been ministers, worked for several months, so in the elections they get one or two percent of the voter's trust in their cities, in their places, that, too, it seems to me, does not speak the best way by how they did their job. The Prime Minister should review that, review the very concept, the very strategy and tactics of the government's work. I am convinced that much can change, and it is not the only solution and it is not the best way to say it - I am for Europe, and you are not for Europe. We can be for anything, I'll say, for Europe, for Russia, for America, for whatever you want, if the citizens of Serbia benefit from it. But by 2012, no one will hear of Serbia in the European Union. This is what the European Commission has told us. She told us. Let's take advantage of that kind of position, see what it is that we can get by, what it is that we can provide Serbian citizens with incomparably better lives than they have today. The interest of Serbian citizens and their better lives is what the government of the Republic of Serbia has to manage, and we do not think that so far it has been managed, and not whether anyone else will be satisfied with this government, whether they will be able to transfer or not to their political opponents. I call on you to think about it, change is what Serbia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7116	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7117	The President-in-Office, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the DS will not vote in favour of the Prime Minister's proposal to fill the ministerial posts, and I will not take this opportunity to evaluate each individual proposal. The DS will vote against because it is deeply opposed to the government's policy over the past eight months, because targets, as the DS sees them, Serbia's development, our state and national objectives, cannot be achieved by the policy that is today in Serbia. The elements of this policy are, of course, foreign policy and internal policy. Serbia is a country with a heavy heritage of the 1990s, a total public life, our international position, deeply defined, very difficult burden on all of what we together as a state, as a people and as a nation inherited from a policy that was led in the 1990s. There are two important aspects to this policy. One attitude towards meeting international obligations is primarily towards the international court in The Hague, and the other is the policy Serbia has, above all, the Serbian government has towards Kosovo and Metohija. The DS stance that Serbia's state interest is full of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which assumes making difficult decisions for the government, but that this is the only possible way to protect our state interests and protect each of the eight million citizens of Serbia. It is a disturbing statement that the minister of justice made a day or two before this session, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will neither respect the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is part of internal law, nor the UN Security Council's decision adopting the UN Statute of the UN tribunal, thus neither our international obligation. The DS does not consider that the government and the justice minister's claims are that national security would be compromised if the government were to carry out its obligations, and I am taking this opportunity to draw attention again and to appeal that it is necessary to lead a responsible policy, because for 10-11 years in this country, a policy has been conducted that has not reflected the essential elements of foreign policy circumstances, which did not reflect reality. This policy has led to the absence of Serbs in Croatia today, this policy has led to the fact that the position of Serbs in BiH has been regulated by the Dayton Agreement and that BiH is under the protectorate, as is our country's country, and such a policy has led to Serbia capitulating in 1999, resulting in Resolution 1244 and the Kumanski Military Agreement, which established the status of protectorates over the part of Serbia's territory in Kosovo and Metohija, and in this protectorate today lives part of our countrymen. This is also what Kosovo and Metohija are subject to. It is well-known that DS and Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, it is in the best state and national interest that our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija go to elections for the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija. As I said earlier, today there's an armed force there, KFOR and today it's the civilian government of UNMIK. Today, public life in Cosmet is regulated by Charter 1244 of the UN. Today, Kosovo and Metohija are under the protectorate. Today, the public life in Cosmet is primarily defined by the essential factors of the international community. Unless we respect what constitutes the creation of public life by the international community, among other things, these are the elections that will take place in a few days, the DS has a clear view that it is a threat to national interests, that it is a threat to the state's interest and that it is a reduction of the country's manoeuvre to Serbia to fight for its legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. The DS has the view that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of the SCG territory. The DS stands in the view that only in this way, with an active struggle for the interests of the state and for the interests of citizens, can a shift be made, primarily in the security of citizens living in Cosmet, Serbian nationality, and then open up a space for the formation of other institutions, primarily judicial and then educational and health institutions. Passive policy is not DS policy. DS doesn't run away from responsibility. The president of the state is running away from his responsibility. The DS and the president of the state have taken the burden of responsibility and we call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to take responsibility for the conduct of politics in Serbia. Internal policy elements; Mr. President, Serbia's crime rate has increased by 16.1%) since the beginning of the year. I remind the public and MPs that almost all the interior secretaries in Serbia have been replaced. I remind the public and the MPs that the entire administrative apparatus in the MUP has been replaced. The government bears full responsibility for increasing Serbia's crime rate. A few days ago, the Prime Minister, perhaps a little more than that, said at a meeting that Serbia's Supreme Court represents, paraphrasing, you will correct me if I may have made a mistake, most corrupt in Serbia's judicial institutions. The president says he said something else, and I'm happy to hear what's going on. I want to draw attention to two moments in terms of this claim. We expected the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of Justice to come up with very clear proposals on what should be done to reform Serbia's justice system. According to internal estimates of experts, according to the DS, according to findings that the European Commission, assessing public life in Serbia, is two years back, the judiciary is the worst part of the public system and public life in Serbia. It's very important to each other. If the government has a point of view, which is a good point of view, most of the procedures conducted before the International Court of Justice in The Hague should be entrusted to the domestic judiciary. I wonder how it is possible to trust the domestic judiciary with the trial of these severe and most serious forms of crime and crimes, if our state and government consider Serbia's Supreme Court to have a problem with corruption. The Supreme Court is a second-degree instance for every trial conducted before the Belgrade District Court's special department, both for organised crime trials and for war crimes trials. According to the DS, modernisation in Serbia is almost stopped. The European Union means modernisation. The European Union means that we have a good system of water network, good sewerage, good roads, good rails, up-to-date courts and effective police, modern and efficient military, good education, good health. This is the European Union. Modernisation is Serbia's path to the European Union. Whether this will happen in 2008 or 2012 depends solely on us. It is not up to anyone else, it depends, first of all, on us, and today it depends most on the government of the Republic of Serbia. The DS says the government of the Republic of Serbia is not doing enough to modernise Serbia and therefore the DS cannot vote for these proposals made by the Prime Minister. A few illustrations. There is no restructuring of public enterprises in Serbia. The restructuring of large systems, which were said by the Prime Minister, and there are 67, if I am not mistaken, of restructuring procedures, has been completely suspended. The Privatisation Agency today is unable to appoint any adviser in the restructuring process. He is unable to take any serious step that could lead to the Sabbath "Zorca", "Viscosa", "Stat" in Kragujevac, "Azotara" in Panchev and the remaining large systems being launched from the point at which they are located. Simply put, whoever had enough power, enough skill and enough perseverance did something in his restructuring. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the institution, and above all, the Ministry of Economy couldn't have done it because there was no minister, and there was no one today until he was elected here, because the wrong personal policy was conducted when it comes to the Privatisation Agency. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible that nothing in the restructuring of large systems has been significantly done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7118	Do you use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7119	I'm using. Public sector reform in Serbia does not exist today. Public sector reform is one of the most important state issues. The interest of the Serbian state and the interest of Serbian citizens is to reform the public sector. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2004, employment increased by 1% in the public sector. So, in the central administration, in public enterprises, in education and health care. I also remind you that employment in Serbia has been reduced by 2.8%. And to compare this with the pre-election promises of the parties that make up the government today. Where it is an increase in employment where the Serbian government's parties also won votes on the basis of those votes of parliamentary seats, and from those seats, the government's constitution has been carried out. As the president said, the trade deficit this year will be about 6.1 billion euros. This is a 50% trade deficit increase compared to 2003. This year's privatisation revenues are drastically lower than the government's expectations by proposing a budget in March this year. Revenues or, rather, foreign investments are mostly revenues from privatisation from 2003 and 2002. When we come to the economy the most important issue of the growth rate of gross social product, thank God there will be an increase in gross social product in this year, and for this it is well-deserved because of what was a good time, so agricultural production will be significantly higher than in 2003. For this reason, the late Zoran Djindjic's government, Zoran Zivkovic and privatisation minister Aleksandr Vlahovic were well responsible, as they managed to raise the power of the Serbian economy by privatising 2002 and 2003, which resulted in an increase in industrial production of about 6.1% in 2004. The consequences of stopping privatisation in 2004 will be seen in 2005 and 2006. That's why the DS can't vote for the proposal made here by the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very end, I will once again say, the DS's view is that Serbia's modernisation is deeply at stake. The interest of Serbian citizens is to live in modern society. The interest of Serbian citizens is to live the way the Greeks and the Portuguese live, it is the interest of Serbian citizens to join the European Union. And if someone had told us in 1990 that the citizens of Hungary would live better than the people of Serbia, we could not believe in his common sense. If we do not continue modernising quickly, the citizens of Albania will live better in two years than the citizens of Serbia. That is why I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to come to a policy represented by the DS, a policy of rapid democratisation, rapid reforms and the acceleration of the path towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7120	He has the right to be Prime Minister, as a promoter, since he's here. (Dusan Prophetovic: The minister has the right to the Rules of Procedure. We have a recommendation, please, you have a word, Minister of Justice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7121	Believe me, I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't been called Mr. Petrovic in this rather bold way. Mr. Petrovic, be sure, I am neither against the UN nor taken over our duties. I have to tell you, unlike you, I don't love the truth. Since you've heard me more than once in your life and you're telling the truth again, I'll repeat. I said that the government's policy is in the interest of this society and the people, which is that in collaboration with The Hague tribunal, we provide co-operation by voluntary surrender, and for the first time as a state, unlike the previous period when it did not behave, we will do everything we can to enable our citizens to exercise all their rights before The Hague tribunal if they surrender voluntarily. That also meant giving guarantees for their release until the call for trial. A number of other things that Croatia and Bosnia have done will also provide us as a state, because every citizen who is subject to presummation of innocence has the right to ask the state to treat him as its citizen. The other thing I said was about it, so it would be the best situation for this society that's been torn up all over the fronts, and it doesn't have to create another one. For this to be even good for the UN tribunal to please, show good will and let a number of citizens go free until trial, as this may give some element for changing the negative picture to the tribunal in this society. Furthermore, I said it was the government's interest to be tried as much in this country as possible, because everyone who came and Mrs. Del Ponte said that what we did was good and we can judge. That was my statement. Therefore, I will not accept your position that a hundred times repeated lie represents the truth. Since you say this is an attitude against the United Nations, I'm going to quote something that you know well. Adviser of the president of our Republic, Boris Tadic, said three days ago that he had talked to General Pavkovic's lawyer and associates, and that they had brought him documentation that convinced him he was gravely ill and that he would do anything to secure the trial in the country of General Pavkovic. I suppose you know that as the first man of the parliamentary group. Is your president then against the United Nations and against co-operation with the UN tribunal? He said the same sentence I said. Our goal is to judge, because The Hague tribunal was founded with an explanation that it was established because the former Yugoslav member states did not want to judge. We want to judge. Why are you taking away our ability to do everything and to allow our citizens to be tried in our country? That's what I said. If you're interested in the social danger that this would cause, I didn't say that, nor did this government. This government didn't make a decision. I only said that the previous government of Mr. Zivkovic made a decision that the extradition of General Lukic could cause destabilisation and endanger the country's vital interests. It's a decision that's been made and she's standing. Therefore, we did not make the decision and therefore, there is nothing for the government to declare. That decision was made by the previous government and don't put anything in my mouth I didn't say. Now I repeat. I suppose your memory serves so you'll remember that in the future and you won't be telling the truth again tomorrow. The other lie you've told, and that's a serious lie, is that I said that the entire judiciary is corrupt. You'll never hear it from me. I said that most of the judiciary works honestly and honestly, that we have problems with smaller groups that have brought the judiciary into this situation and that I'm asking the judiciary to solve these problems that it has so that someone else on the side of them doesn't solve it, because as soon as they solve it on the side of the court, it's actually not good. And now I repeat that this is the situation. We've had trials, I'm talking about war crimes, it's proven that we can, legal obstacles have been removed, and we don't have any distractions to judge. Besides, that's what Mrs. Del Ponte said when she was here. So, please, come on, at least when you talk to me or take me in your word, stick to the truth. I'm not looking for anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7122	The word has a minister in the government, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7123	Very short. It's a good thing they're talking about crime, because from 2000 to 2003, it wasn't supposed to be talked about. There was no need to talk because crime led the state, because, instead of police security structure, the criminal structure provided the security of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens. This government is not a friend of Spasojevic, Lukovic, Ulemek and others. This government and this ministry, which you mentioned, are leading a whole other policy. You mentioned the same big shifts. I was present for two thousand and some revolutionary years when dentists, poolers, accountants and people with police had nothing to do with the secretaries and the OUP. I was present when, apart from the names and candidates for certain interior secretaries, there were ten seals of certain parties, which confirmed for a certain man that it was the very one who would be the commander of weapons in that city or palace. I have to say, it's a different story now. At the head of the secretariat are young people, professional, who are all, but with a list of all, career cops. There's a difference between this and your or your then revolutionary government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7124	Baseline? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Petrovic, member 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7125	Since the minister of justice has found it appropriate to say that I am impertinent, Mr. Minister, I can only notice that you are nervous. I am not insolent and I did not say that you said that all judges in Serbia are corrupt, but that the Prime Minister said that corruption exists in the Supreme Court. That's what the media said. There is a government decision, on the other hand, which, I don't know how, obliges you, Zivkovic's government, on whether security is at stake or not. You said the government of the Republic of Serbia won't arrest on war crimes charges. Is that true too? It is something that constitutes your position in the means of public information and that, in my view, is a violation of the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and a violation of The Hague tribunal's Statute. On the other hand, you didn't give an explanation in public whether Colonel Beara was arrested or not, when we got there. You said the man surrendered voluntarily, and Carla del Ponte said he was arrested and behind that silence. I want to believe you, but we didn't get your answer to the question whether it came from forced detention or not. You, Mr. Jocic, told everything, but you didn't say why the rate of crime was 16.1%, when you have such good police and such a good personal policy in the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7126	You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 100. I didn't realize what the injured member was in the 100th, so I don't have an explanation for your violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7127	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, brothers and sisters, comrades and comrades of the Democrats, the topic we are discussing today is certainly in the shadow of what has just been seen, and it is obvious that your cohabitation lasted for a short time. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I would like to say that it would be my turn for ministers to come to parliament more often, and that is a criticism that is certainly justified. I think ministers should be in parliament not only when the law is from their resolutions. Of course, we have slightly neglected the institution of parliamentary issues, answers to parliamentary questions and everything else. The reconstruction of the government, as you know, the SPS talked about it and when the agenda was over, so the budget rebalancing, we asked for more times to be filled out, especially the economic real estate. Because it was unacceptable for Serbia's government to have several months without a very important place of business, which in its portfolio has a question of privatisation and everything else that arises. Also, we believe that this Serbian government is a government of discontinuity compared to the previous government. If the Serbian government isn't, I don't think it's going to get far. I think the Serbian government really needs to figure out whether the government is discontinuity in relation to the DOS government or whether the government is continuity with what happened from 2000 to 2003. From what the police minister said, I think I'm suggesting his answer wasn't, but I didn't see him do anything concrete about it either. With all this in mind, I expect and we all expect that the affairs and crime that existed from 2000 to 2003 should be cleared up as soon as possible. Djelic filed hundreds of criminal charges against the Socialists, deputies, ministerial assistants, petty bolts and radicals, I did not notice the JUL's, and the radicals, and I know that because our colleagues, who were in the same government with the SRS gentlemen, and Djelic filed criminal charges for the acts he later declared to be violations, so-called. non-intentional spending of funds, etc. You have now announced that Djelic accidentally spent, i.e. off-balance, or spent more than he showed that he spent. It is symptomatic that he spent in an election campaign and it is symptomatic that he of course spent money on privatisation in an election campaign. The only question is, do you want to be a government of discontinuity or do you want to co-habitate with the DS? Also, we believe, the final account of the Assembly did not consider, the budget, therefore, the final account for 2002 and 2003: where it is, why it is not on the agenda. So everything that was in the previous period has to be discussed. If you want to be a government that won't have shadows behind it, and we also think and ask that the work of agencies, directorships, public enterprises should be examined, because what are we talking about here? We are talking about conflict of interest, preventing conflicts of interest, preventing corruption, and each director of any public enterprise has five times as much pay as the MP. Therefore, even the Council for Corruption has a higher salary, twice as many times as the MP has in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then what are we talking about here? Also, the work of public enterprises must be examined, we expect to make changes in public enterprises. Otherwise, people who were in previous authorities remain, we expect the government to put the NIS and the NIS on the agenda as soon as possible and the selection of NIS Director-General, as the new Energy Act has ordered. We expect, since it has not been done in the previous four years, the DOS government has never elected Director-General of NIS, but has named it V.D. Because it's still different when it's decided here in parliament. Furthermore, the launch of the economy, the reduction of the external trade deficit, privatisation, these are things that are very important. In privatization, state administration doesn't, but neither does robbery. We have several companies where we have reached the state administration, but we have many businesses where the robbery was committed. The worst is the current situation, neither there nor here. The Serbian government was neither to continue this privatisation nor to revise the existing privatisation, an existing law. Our opinion in the SPS is that this privatisation project and this privatisation law have failed and that is why a new project should be discussed that privatisation in Serbia should look like. We're not against privatisation, but we're against robbery, and I think it has to be done a lot to correct what was in the previous period. Also, in education, since we choose the Minister of Education, please, there are a lot of staff, and they of course force both school programs and teaching programs that are completely analytical. There are many people who are at the Ministry of Education, brought by the former minister, by the GSS, forging an international concept in education. We're absolutely against it. We expected the previous minister to make a sharp cut as regards the boards of directors, and instead she put all almost the same people, and even those who fell from power, for members of the boards of directors, members of the GSS, DS or some others. It's about that, and that's what I was just talking about, whether it's about discontinuity or whether it's about continuing what the previous government did. Also, sport, don't realize that someone wants to compare past and present times, but you can say what you want about past times. During our rule, we were champions of Europe and the world, and now we are pleased when Jasna Šekarić takes a walk in the morning and wins the silver medal. Sports is a branch of a society that must be invested in, and during the previous DOS authorities, the Ministry of Sports has been abolished, and you asked athletes to support them publicly, so that's what you're asking today. I want to say, Minister Stojkovic came out, as far as the SPS is concerned, we absolutely welcome the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia and what he said today and what we talked to the prime minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, because we welcome the position of the Serbian government around The Hague tribunal. We are against the extradition of our citizens to The Hague tribunal and support the view that Serbian police will not arrest and extradite to The Hague tribunal. We believe that such an attitude is in Serbia's interest, in the interest of the Serbian people, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. We believe that the Serbian government, that the Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Kostunica, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the leaders of the political parties sitting here, should call on once more Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija not to go to the so-called elections. temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. We don't have time to wait for some new sessions, elections are Saturday. Also, we must make it clear that those Serbs who are allegedly elected to the so-called team. elections for temporary institutions cannot have, as far as citizens of Serbia, Serbia's government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, the legitimacy to give a green light or alibi for the resolution of Kosovo and Metohija's final status. The Serbian government is obliged to say so, because such an agreement was reached with the heads of all political parties, then Boris Tadic, that the political plan for the resolution of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija, against certain parts we were, but we accepted, because the plan that was accepted by consensus, was an agreement to invite Serbs to go to elections, only if the international community accepted the basis of the plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7128	Mr. Dacic, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7129	I've been using for 20 minutes. Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite decision and the opposite political plan to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija, urged Serbs to participate in the Kosovo and Metohija elections. The call is politically harmful, bringing divisions into the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, giving verification and legalisation of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija, and legalising the lack of respect for Resolution 1244 in Kosovo and Metohija. Yes, that resolution was made at the time of our government, but I would like to remind myself that at that time almost all the parties sitting here, except for some exceptions, supported that plan and that Resolution 1244. The previous government, whenever it did not know what it would say about Kosovo and Metohija, was also holding onto the plan as the only straw that Kosovo and Metohija still hold together with Serbia and then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Participation in these elections will in fact be an alibi for some who do not have any legitimacy in Kosovo and Metohija on behalf of Serbs. This is, in fact, the continuation of the work of the former Return coalition, which has never actually received support from citizens in the elections. We are in favour of the government of Serbia, if the National Assembly is to be required, by emergency procedure, tomorrow, to adopt a political stance and a resolution that Serbs should not participate in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, we believe that budget rebalancing and government reconstruction should not be turned into a debate about trust or mistrust in the government. Of course, you can talk about it, but why, for these political reasons, would ultimately have those who won't be able to get paid a pension or farmers who won't be able to get paid a pension, or the unemployed who won't be able to get paid, or the state that's going to have damages because we won't get paid a part of the debt, a little less than two billion dollars. It's not a debate about trust or mistrust of the government, as you know, or the consequences of not having a minister. Our attitude is clear. The SPS supports the government while the Serbian government and its president adhere to what it has promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We also support legal projects and personnel if they are previously consulted with the SPS. We don't enter the personal lineup. And this time, we're not going into the personal lineup. Of course, responsibility is borne by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the parties that make up the government and, of course, by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. We ask that the government works better, faster, more determined, to take care of national and state interests, to exercise power, to make human resources changes compared to the previous DOS regime, to respond to separatism, whether Islamic, Muslim, whether Hungarian in Vojvodina, to improve the socio-economic situation of citizens, to create conditions for recovery of the economy, to fight more decisively against crime and corruption. We expect that the budget that the government will propose will not be deficited, but rather directed towards some real state of affairs in Serbia. Of course, the government can expect our support, but the government needs to know that it depends on it itself. So the government depends on the government itself. I think it is clear to all of us that if there were to be some kind of staff change and deployment, such as Ms. Danica Draskovic's appointment as Director of the Institute of Security, I think it is clear to all of us that there is no need for the SPS to hold a session of the General Committee at all, it is clear to everyone that at that point this government would no longer have the support of the SPS. Of course, I think a lot of people sitting in this government would resign sooner than they would sign. And finally, when elections will be held is not decided by the DS's main board. In addition to those who make up the government, the SPS also decides. And the DS can't figure it out. Nothing depends on what they say and what they do in this country anymore, fortunately for this country and for this people, and as far as they are for modernising, Serbia's Europeanisation has proved to be in the past three years, when we have not been sanctioned for supporting Serbs outside Serbia but because of sugar smuggling.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7130	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7131	Mr. Dacic had observations and conclusions on DS policy. We can all thank God together that Mr. Ivica Dacic is no longer an executive power, that although certain anti-natural political alliances have some influence on the local, and certainly affecting the central government, it is already a matter of Mr. Vojislav Kostunica and his political election, not anyone else. The DS is an opposition to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot modernise Serbia. The government will fall when she doesn't have 126 MPs. When that happens, it seems to be decided by Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7132	Ivica Dacic, he's looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7133	I thought he answered about Danica, but he didn't. I'm reporting because my words have been misread. Mr. Petrovic misread my words. That's why I want to be precise. I'm looking for that basis to clarify my words. I have already said, it is more honorable, and I say with pride, to co-operate with Vojislav Kostunica than some who co-operated with DS, Zivkovic, Ced, Zoran Djindjic in the previous period. And I say that fully responsible on behalf of the SPS. As far as DS is concerned, I want to make this clear. It is true that nothing in this country depends on you, and yet something depends on the SPS, and that is at least when there will be an emergency election, except for the parties participating in the government. They certainly won't be when they match the DS, and as far as the local election results are concerned, I'm afraid that these choices will ever suit you again. (Dusan Petrovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7135	Dale, Mr Dacic, some will buy grandchildren, and the Democratic Party is today the strongest party in Serbia, and this has been shown by local elections. As for DS, laughing ministers and prime minister, we are ready to take responsibility for Serbia's governance tomorrow. Whenever, Mr. Dacic, you decide to bring down the government, we will win those elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7136	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure? National MP Novakovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7137	My ladies MPs, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 99 of attitude 1 is quite brief and clear: "The speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda." I'm afraid we in the O.R. forgot what we're talking about here, let alone the citizens of Serbia, if they have this flaw that they can't change the TV program, so they listen. That is why I will read that the second point is in the consolidated text of the agenda for this sitting – a proposal to elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. It's about three ministers. I can agree with many that this government is not easy to love, for one common reason, that this government has not yet formed here in the Balkans, in which citizens, and in particular MPs, are in love. On the other hand, as president of the Privatisation Committee, I want to clear up one important delusion. It was a problem that we didn't have a minister for the economy, it was a problem that at the 27th session of the Privatisation Committee, except for the first two, where Mr. Vlahovic was, we didn't have a conversation. It was a problem that the Committee in its 20 points unanimously, on a proposal from a working group composed of representatives of all parliamentary parties, pointed to problems in the privatisation process and offered these same solutions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We hope that very soon, Mr. Bubal's appointment as minister, these proposals will be found on the government's agenda and that the solutions will not have to be that, nor have we pleaded that we are the smartest, to be adopted. On the other hand, some 1,300 companies that have been privatized to this day have spoken to the Assembly Privatisation Committee somewhere between 100 and 120 companies. The agency has filed 80 lawsuits for the termination of the social capital deal. So we're talking about ten percent failure. (Tomislav Nikolic throws.) You've exceeded your time. ) Therefore, I propose that we adopt the proposal of Mr. Prime Minister and elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I wanted to say, Mr Nikolic interrupted me, that the latest report by the Agency and the work programme for the coming month shows a complete acceleration of the privatisation process. I'm sure that the wheel, which has stopped for a moment, will reach and reach its speed at the beginning of this year by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7138	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS and DS. I give my word to the MP Radojko Obradovic, let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7139	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Prime Minister, ministers, are on the agenda to elect members of the government. It's an opportunity to analyze everything the government has done in seven months, as long as it's been since it was formed. Before this point of the agenda, we have declared the budget rebalancing, which is also an opportunity to analyse what the government's policy looks like in different segments. To get into that analysis at all, and most of my predecessors have gone over that fact, it's a founding state. To talk about everything the government has done for only seven months of its work, we need to remember what Serbia looked like on March 3rd this year, when the government was elected; what it looked like were the three years of Serbia's modernisation until the moment the government took office. Let's remember all those affairs that we had in the judiciary, remember all those affairs in the government itself, let's remember the loans the ministers were getting from different republican funds. Let us remember that Serbia was once again a country under sanctions for sugar. There were affairs that couldn't be solved. Serbia was the only country, probably apart from some other African or Asian undeveloped countries, in which there was absolutely no idea how many MPs there were. For a long time, the National Assembly had much more than 250 MPs. Serbia had a number of agencies built under the law. That's what she looked like, that's what modernised Serbia looked like on March 3rd, when the government took office. The assembly's majority and parties forming this government, as one of their primary goals, have highlighted an independent judiciary, an independent legislative one, separate from the executive authority. I must remind you that this is the first time that the president of the most important assembly committees sits in the opposition. That's never been in the past. This is the first time the Assembly is above the government of the Republic of Serbia. In a long series of years back, the government was above the Assembly. The government's priority was to solve the problem in the judiciary. All that was done in the previous three years led to further subjugation of the judiciary to the executive authority. The government has set out, above all, to amend the law governing the area of justice and the judiciary is finally becoming independent of the executive authority. The government has set out to build institutions, and institutions are built in only one way: by passing laws. Within seven months of the government's work, the Serbian Parliament passed 50 laws. That's more than it was adopted in 2002 and 2003. In 2002, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed only 22 laws, and the government in the shadow of the DSS, at the time, proposed nine laws to the Assembly, and a government that modernises Serbia only 22 laws. This government does not pressure the media, there is no corruption in this government. I can see I'm exulting ministers from the previous government, but they were giving loans from the Development Fund to their colleagues, not this government. The government has significantly reduced external debt and is now 12 billion, unlike the previous government, which, in addition to everything done, raised external debt and brought the country to the brink of the debt crisis. It is due to pay back 750m euros of foreign debt next year, all those interest rates and principals that come to payment. The government has created conditions for restructuring public enterprises, a law on energy has finally been adopted. What was resented by the opposition in the previous meeting is that it did not create conditions for the adoption of the Energy Act, which was on the agenda. I guess that's the task of the ruling majority, not the obligations of the opposition. The adoption of this law opened the door for the restructuring of one of the most important sectors that this country still has - the energy sector. One of the key was the issue of privatisation. The law was passed and at the time the DSS had objections to the model. The time for changing the model has passed and continued to apply that law. There have been delays in the privatisation process and revenues that were otherwise overestimated in that budget proposed by the previous government, have not been realised. But it's easy to implement the Privatisation Act, you have cement stores, tobacco factories. You sell them once, they're gone. You need to sell those companies that don't work anymore. As the Bank's Banking Act was bad when it was supposed to be applied to agricultural cooperatives and to small and medium-sized enterprises with several employees, and it was great when it was sold "Sartid". You can only sell that once, and then it's gone. The government also solves problems in the area of privatisation. Thus, absolutely in all segments it is shown that this government is achieving results. Seven months is not enough to significantly improve the lives of Serbian citizens, but it is enough to show which direction the government is working towards and open perspectives, so that for 2005-2006, the government can make significant moves in improving citizens' lives. Serbia needs modernisation. Serbia needs changes, but Serbia needs changes only for the better, and that is what is the biggest result of this government, it repairs the situation in Serbia in different segments, but repairs the state of the best, unlike many segments in the previous government where things have been repaired, but mostly worse. The DSS and the DSS Parliamentary Club will support changes and support the government's work, as it allows citizens of Serbia to live better every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7140	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, whenever a government reconstruction is carried out, this is a kind of government reconstruction, although caused by the early departure of two ministers, it is an opportunity to make a policy balance that the government led in the previous period. I will not enter other areas, I will talk about the government's economic policy in the previous seven or eight months, from March to today, and I will talk about the results that this economic policy has given. Of course, that's part of the topic, because by choosing new ministers we need to confirm, and it's about economic resources, once again to confirm the government's legitimacy for the coming period. The government's economic policy, as we in the DS understood, on the basis of one side of the Prime Minister's exposé at the time when the government was elected and, on the other hand, on the basis of statements made by the government's economic team just before and after the government was formed, was based on the following: firstly, on three key instruments for the realization of economic policy -- one was the budget, the second credit-monetary policy and the third is so-called. sector policy, defined strategies and direct projects in particular sectors in the government's economic sphere. The key objectives were to define the conditions that should encourage economic growth, including promotion, so-called "promotion". the development budget. I won't talk about him since we've been talking about him for the past few days, discussing budget rebalancing, we've had a chance to say what we think and politics so-called. the development budget. In order to achieve the development and promotion of economic growth, a reduction in the tax burden has been promised, increased employment has been promised through cheaper loans placed through the Development Fund, through a more active role of the National Employment Service, through a faster, more efficient development of the sectoral agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, through faster, more efficient privatisations in so-called ‘SME’. the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, but social enterprises. Of course, in parallel with that, there has been a promise to protect the national economy, a promise that can be made with one coin, to us in particular lately, which is so-called. economic patriotism, which should provide protection, primarily by domestic owners, and with regard to achieving the basic objectives that have previously been defined. I ask all MPs - has there been a reduction in the tax burden in the past eight months? It's not. Tax burden is not reduced. On the contrary, it has been increased through increased excise duty on excise products, although I must admit that there has been a parallel decrease in the whole set of excise burdens, but on products whose turnover is very small and subsequently burdens the business of the domestic economy to a small extent, while key excise products have seen significant increases in excise duties. Has there been a reduction in the tax burden on profits or a reduction in income contributions? Of course not, because there was no room for such a reduction. So, the first promised goal to be achieved in the immediate coming period -- to relieve the tax economy of Serbia -- is not achieved. On the contrary, by additional intervention, primarily through the increase of excise duties, there was an additional tax burden that affected both the economy and the population. What kind of budget did we get in March? Right, he was, by all his performances, developmental, with the difference that he was unrealistic, unrealistic and was a paper that was supposed to be given as an ovulation of election promises from December last year, without any intention of actually realising that budget. As a consequence, we had until yesterday a debate on budget rebalancing which, not that it is not developmental, but is social and that saves the country's macroeconomic stability. So we haven't implemented development policy through what's-his-name. The implementation of budgetary policy instruments, rather than vice versa, has further sewn up the level of economic activity. As for the protection of domestic economy, as one of the predecessors said, domestic economy is left to harsh competition and I would not want it to be understood that I am against liberalisation as a way to achieve an accelerated restructuring of the economy, but there are obstacles where we least need them. We all know that without investment there are no new jobs, and domestic investment potential is very limited. By setting up obstacles to foreign investment, we have, in fact, reduced the potential of investment, which should have ended up in our country and thus created new growth generators. I must admit that this is exactly the kind of inconsistencies budget policy that caused the additional restrictive credit-money policy that took place in June and July this year, which further reduced the credit potential in the domestic banking system and further reduced the chance of Serbia's economy to recover permanently. I would not very much admire the growth of the gross social product achieved in the previous period because the sources of this growth are limited. On the one hand, the source of agricultural growth is extremely good years because of extremely good climate conditions. On the other hand, the source of growth in industrial production is a previous successful privatisation and the source is limited. Sources of growth are being exhausted by the end of October and, as many economists predict and join them, it is necessary to expect a decline in industrial production since November, precisely because the government's economic policy, even before time, has deafened on these potential indicators that are positive over the past six or seven months. This is not something we can claim, and this has been proven to be due to the government of the Republic of Serbia since March, but is the result of either the merit of other or good favourable circumstances based on which this growth has been achieved. All other indicators are extremely bad. They repeat more because of the public, and less because of you, the trade deficit increased by 50%, by 4.2 billion this year will be more than 6.3 billion. The pay-balance deficit or current payment deficit has also been increased by 50%. Two billion dollars last year, and this year's balance deficit will be three billion dollars. The volume of foreign direct investment up to the eighth month is only $380m, and out of that 70% of the previous period. I don't want to compare it with the amount of foreign direct investment made in the previous year, but this bill says we will be placed in the last place this year, comparing Serbia with all the countries in the region. Since Montenegro will end the privatisation of Telekom by the end of the year and the privatisation of KAP, I fear that Montenegro will also have a greater volume of foreign direct investment compared to Serbia. We're really going to be in the last place, and what's best said about the attractiveness of the investment environment. While on one side we have bold statements, which I completely understand, because the government has to send a positive message, but the problem is that it does not do positive actions to make this message honest and true. On the one hand, we have a message to investors that there has never been a more stable environment, and on the other hand we have a free protest from foreign investors who say, the state, stop interfering with the construction of the private sector, because that way you further raise the risk and we have no intention of investing in Serbia if such a policy continues. It is only one of the elements of inconsistency, on the one hand, between the promise and, on the other hand, between what is being realized; on the one hand, between messages to investors and, on the other hand, actions consciously or unconsciously that these investors never come to Serbia. What happens to employment? Employment drops at a rate of -2.4%. We remember very well the promise that a housing credit insurance agency will be established, that the Guarantee Fund will explode strongly with its activity in the post-March period this year. That the Development Fund will be recapitalised, additionally allocated funds from the budget to finance the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I'd like to hear how much guarantee the Guarantee Fund has issued in the period from March to today. As it would be good to hear, how many housing loans the Housing Credit Insurance Agency has provided to date. It would be good to hear what level of funding is allocated from the budget to the recapitalisation Development Fund, so as to encourage the development of the private sector. Instead of seizing, there's a reduction. I'll remind you that last year's execution amounted to a billion dinars, and in this year you'll have less than 800 million dinars. You had a billion and 200 plan, and in this cut the rebalancing and the Development Fund remained short for its 400 million dinars. So this once again speaks of the inconsistency between what is promised, between good intentions, I suppose, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and what is done. We have a situation where many laws have been passed and that's true. The DS voted for those laws. Let me remind you, this is more sporty to admit and say that most of the economic laws have just been prepared in the previous period by the previous government; those listed bankruptcy laws, about the business registers agency, about the registration of business entities, as well as draft laws on companies. My question is, here I fully agree with the finding that there is no stability without laws, and there is no operationalization of laws without institutions, what has been done to establish an agency for economic registers? What was done at the establishment of a bankruptcy agency? What about the education of judges for the application of new bankruptcy laws, which, of course, I don't call the minister of justice, and since it's the job of the minister of economy. I ask the question, what happens to the establishment of other institutions that had to operate on the laws. Conversely, we'll have laws like a dead letter on paper. In doing so, the danger of being even bigger, the law has suspended the old way of registering businesses, and since 1 February the new one should be applied, so if there is no institution, there is no application and then we will have a big problem. In time, I warn you, since I see that the congregation's most-so-restricted majority, that you will have this problem in February and that this job must be taken extremely seriously, so that we can have a smooth registration of business entities; vice versa, or everything will stop or not know who's taking part in the market in our country. The same applies to the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, as the same applies to amendments and additions to the Financial Markets and Securities Act. There is an obvious conflict between the laws, which is partly responsible for the part of the government that was sitting in the then federal government, on financial markets and securities of value, brought a year and a half after the Action Fund Act, and the Action Fund Act that does not allow the Action Fund to sell shares. And you can't correct that discrepancy by the government's conclusion, by regulation, by decision. At least you know that decisions, conclusion, regulation cannot suspend a harmful legal norm or a contradictory legal norm in these laws. I'm surprised that wasn't the government's priority at the beginning of her term, because there's a huge reservoir of potential real cover for the budget deficit. That's why we're having an affair today, "The Book." We are having an affair because many investors are wondering if the sale and accumulation of packages has been done in accordance with the law, because when you interpret the Act on the Action Fund, you come to one point, and when you interpret the Financial Markets Act, you have another point of view. This must be respected, unfortunately, by the Financial Markets Act, which in many ways forces the state to carry out such an action. Why did this law not come to the agenda in April and you had it prepared, as well as many others that this assembly inherited from the previous assembly, from the previous government, and thus create an opportunity for you to raise your privatisation revenue by at least eight billion dinars by simply selling the action package in the Action Fund. Perhaps that was the intention, not to sell those actions, and otherwise to make additional privatisations. I don't want to doubt your intentions, but if you don't submit that law to the Assembly in the next period, the DS will do it for you. It will launch the initiative because it is very important that the Action Fund is not played by private investors on the financial market. The statements by individual government ministers that are attacking the independence of certain financial institutions have an amazing effect. Until it is understood in this country that the Securities Commission and the Central Register are the same as the Court of Justice with regard to independence in business, with regard to the sensitivity to the pressures coming from either side, we will not have a stable macroeconomic environment. As long as a clear message is not sent that the state can sometimes lose, but by not jeopardising the independence of key financial institutions, we will not have stability and we will not have foreign investments, and certainly there will be no domestic investment. So that's all, conditionally speaking, the cartoons that we managed to collect in the Democratic Party, given that only today we were informed that this session would be on the agenda, which talk enough about what economic policy was being conducted over the past seven months. What's going on with sectoral policies? Can anyone from the government come out today and say, yes, we have a developmental sectoral agrarian budget, yes, we have a sectoral development budget at the Ministry of Capital Investments, after a reduction of three billion dinars at the Ministry of Capital Investment, after a reduction of 1.7 billion in the Ministry of Agriculture. Can anyone say today - yes, we will continue with the corporate subsidisation policy and we will do it even more intensively in the next period, as was the case from the promise given at the moment this government was formed. It can't be because simply some populist promises – which I don't blame you for, for which the price is paid in the elections, and the price is paid long before that, because it is very quickly recognised that something that is promised cannot be converted into reality – cannot be transformed into active elements of economic policy. What about individual projects? This is where one of my colleagues mentioned the restructuring of public enterprises. I'm not sure that's where we've made significant progress. I would even say that there was a step backwards when it came to restructure Serbia's Elektroprivreda, as only thanks to the strike that took place in the mining spears, some of those mining spears were returned to the Elektroprivreda system. Was that politics? It's not returned, I'm sorry, but the beginning of their separation has been delayed. Was that a labour policy, an economic policy that was defined in March this year? This many times mentioned Energy Act is also something left behind in the legacy of the previous government, but I must admit that some members of the then opposition, and once positions, participated in the drafting of the law. If we already have the Energy Act, why haven't we chosen yet, by the Assembly, director of NIS? It is chosen by the Assembly by law. We have the Energy Act for four months, and we still don't have a proposal to stabilise one of the most important public enterprises. Leave it to you how the Director or Director of the Director was elected during the previous period. We didn't have the energy law, we waited to bring it in and we paid the price in December. It's not a topic anymore. The theme is to implement this government's economic policy. What was done to restructure the ZTP? What was done to restructure other public enterprises? Why is there an investment airport? What's going on with the JAT restructuring? Why are populist promises made whenever ten people stop every juice in every place and are promised to pour their hands and hats out of the state budget, in which there is no money? This is the essence of our negative attitude towards economic policy and whenever someone is talking about when there will be new elections and who is the decisive factor in causing these new elections, I suggest that the issue be raised vice versa. I remind you, this is a transition government. The Transition Government has a mission that is much bigger than the missions and objectives of governments in normal and developed countries. The transition government in the economic sphere is tasked with reducing public and private spending, not investment spending, which appears to be a budget rebalance. The transition government is tasked with giving full and strong support to the development of the private sector, not to stop the same private sector in its development through demagogue and political promises in pre-election campaigns. The transition government is tasked with entering harshly and uncompromisingly, without major populist promises to trade unions, to restructure public enterprises, to reduce all the personal costs in the budget, so as not to achieve space to obtain tax discharge. And the way we did it, and that's why, among other things, we paid the price in December in the elections and we lost power. The Transition Government has a task to create, not only to pass laws, and speaking of laws, 180 laws were passed from 2001 to 2003, and the Assembly did not even discuss those laws afterwards, and there are at least 40 laws left in preparation. The transition government is tasked with building new institutions, which will mean institutional support for the continuation of the restructuring process. If this government has the strength, and I say very well on purpose if it has the strength, to do all that is numbered in the economic sphere, if it has the strength to build up political and difficult decisions, which are drawn by great political responsibility, it is worth talking about the future and the continuation of work. If not, since it's a transition government, then trust me, both this and every other that behaves that way will only waste time, and time is unfortunately our least resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7142	Replica, Minister Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7143	I thank my esteemed predecessor for mentioning energy and restructuring, because it gives me the opportunity to address you and correct perhaps some inaccuracies, which have otherwise appeared around the Energy Act lately, which may be a product or ignorance, and I doubt they've been deliberately done. The Energy Act, which was passed as one key system law, a modern law, has no resemblance in this regard to the law left for us in the legacy, according to Mr Vlahovic. It is fundamentally different in just a few essential things that the previous one could not have been adopted, which caused strikes, for which trade unions rebelled, etc. By law form, it is even in shape similar to the Slovenian law, because it has previously been taken form. The key is how development policy is conducted, which brings forward a development strategy, on which the organisation of the energy sector is based, and how it is intended to be an organisation of energy entities themselves, along with another very important remark, with the introduction of new institutions, which we have so far not, such as the regulatory agency, system operator and markets. We have here a completely or significantly changed role of individual entities in the energy sectors. So he looks something like him on the outside, so as far as the head and everything else is concerned, but it's basically different. I heard there were stories about it on some TV show, but it's really not the same law. There's a difference. Another very important thing, we in the earlier period, and as a shadow government, were constantly talking about the reorganisation and restructuring of these large law-based companies. It's now being brought in, and it's only now starting and there's restructuring and electricity and oil industries. So, exactly what it wasn't until now. It was just bombing announcements, without any program, without any document that led to restructuring, that it was done in these and these phases, based on such and such analyses, but only being brought in as populistly, we're going to fire, we're going to reduce 5,000 people, we're going to give 10,000 people. We don't use those terms, and we're just reducing the number of employees, in a way where the World Bank gives us support, when it comes and controls our documents and results, and these other institutions that we co-operate with. Finally, we have completed the draft energy strategy, Serbia's energy development by 2015, and the presentations have already started and the 29th will still be in the Chamber of Commerce, then coming to the government and then here. It's something that's very capital and important. This allows the entire energy sector to be restructured now. What's important is, I mean, we're doing it, it's reorganizing and the oil industry, or the energy sector, which is done in a much more appropriate way, very well accepted by employees in the electricity sector, and now we're separating these activities in a quiet and quiet way, there are no announcements. There were also words from Mr Petrovic, where modernization was said to have stopped. I want to say one good news, you know that electricity and the whole system has been integrated into European interconnection, which is not by chance or so easy to achieve. But what is much more important, we will form by the end of the year, together with other countries in this region of Southeast Europe, an energy community that will allow the entire region to join the energy market in gas, so the European Union market, which is either the first step or only necessary, so that we are believed to be part of the European Union, as far as this part of electricity is concerned. So, will we join the European Union in 2012 or 2007, as announced, we mainly from the point of view of electricity have done our job this year and is believed to be no more of the additional requirements will be put before us in connection with the accession of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7144	The People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7145	Dear People's MPs, respected representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I urge you to support the government of the Republic of Serbia and support the policy that the government is conducting by voting for the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A policy conducted in the previous eight months by the ruling majority can be described briefly as an institution-making policy, because in March, when the current political and assembly majority was formed, the institutions did not exist. There were ruins, they had to be repaired, exactly like that, and in this parliament there was no idea how many MPs there were, the number varied between 240 and 310 MPs, depending on whether it was the former speaker of the assembly or some party headquarters. Serbia had no president of the state, she had Natasa Micic in V.D. the situation, and these ruins remained both in the economic and economic sectors. I will remind you, in May in this assembly, therefore, that we should have brought amendments and amendments to one law, so a large multinational company rebelled because one former minister verbally promised that the amendment and addition of the law would not be until 2006. Also, when we discussed budget rebalancing, we saw that the former minister of traffic, Mrs Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, signed some bonds at four, five billion dinars, that this was not recorded anywhere, that in the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and now and therefore, among other things, we have macroeconomic instability, we also have problems with budgets. The making of institutions certainly leads to a general stabilisation of opportunities and general stabilisation of opportunities and the creation of institutions mean that most consult the minority. So, most offer a minority to participate in the decision-making process. I remind you that the plan for Kosovo and Metohija was adopted unanimously, I think one of the few decisions that has been adopted unanimously since the start of the multi-party system in Serbia since 1990. Also, the ruling majority has expressed its readiness to consult and respect all suggestions of the opposition when it comes to the definition and solutions of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The ruling majority are doing this for one simple reason, because we need the continuity of state policy. It does not matter who will be in power in 2010 or 2012 when Serbia's final entry into the European Union will be discussed, it is important that by the next year or at the latest in mid-2006 we define our single state policy concerning negotiations with the European Union, meeting European standards, and whoever is in power in 2010 or 2011 will certainly respect that policy, because the votes of MPs who voted for it in the Assembly and that authority will be binding. Speaking of the European Union, I must say that what has not been done since January 2001 has been done now, begins with writing a feasibility study and the end is a positive signal that Serbia has received that it can be admitted to full membership already in 2012. I say, already in 2012, as I will remind you, Romania and Bulgaria have expressed their commitment in 1992 to become members of the European Union. It took them 16 years to reach that goal, and we're going to need something less, twice as much, we're going to need eight years, unlike the two states mentioned. In 2012, it is also an effective goal because of some of the results achieved by the previous government, but also because of many of the results achieved by the current government. I'll remind you of the arrangement with the IMF, the debt write-off arrangement for the London and Paris Club, the arrangement with the Russian Federation and China, and everything is related to the write-off of debts, as well as a series of individual examples: the settlement of the debt of the mining and artillery base Bor to the Daimler-Krysler Corporation, the resolution of the flag debt from Kragujevac to the company "Fiat". I cite all these examples because it's about debts. The state remained over-indebted from some previous period. When these debts are accumulated, it's hard to talk about greenfield investments, it's hard to talk about direct investments. This government now creates conditions for write-offs, relieves our economy of this great ballast, great burden, and thus creates conditions for further development and economic, and economic, and social system. This is also proof of the arrival of the largest Italian delegation, a business delegation, from 1945 to today. The proof that it started in the second phase, the stage of development, is also a regulation with which Slovenia began its economic transition. This is a Regulation on production cooperation. The government should also be supported because we are in the DSS deeply convinced that it's more important where we go than how fast we're going. I'm afraid by running over the past few years we've missed some signposts, we've entered the ditch. It took time to get back on the road leading us to Brussels, and it seems to me that in only eight months we've succeeded. I am deeply convinced that we are going the right way now, I am deeply convinced that Serbia is at this point where Slovakia was in 1997 and I am deeply convinced that the effects of the ruling majority will soon be seen in all segments of society, as it has been in Slovakia since 1999 and 2000. I say soon, not now, because the state doesn't make itself overnight, and it's even harder to make a country when it's the environment we're in and how uninvited. Serbia will find itself in a much harder situation in 2005 and 2006 than today. Serbia will open the issue of Kosovo's final status and Metohija in 2005. At the end of 2005 or early 2006, the issue of the final preservation of the state union will be raised. We are witnessing today the issue of reviewing the Paris-Dayton Peace Agreement. In our immediate environment, opportunities are increasingly coming together, and fewer are being solved. I will only mention the issue of the Republic of Macedonia and the potential escalation of political instability there. All this leads to a consensus and political opportunity in Serbia. Serbia can solve these problems only with much patience and unique attitudes, which will define and support as many as possible in this parliament. Because such a majority in this House provides something called the national consensus and policy of the state continuity. I think that Serbia, with this government and this ruling majority, has finally begun to lead a policy of state continuity and on behalf of the DSS, I want to point out that anyone who wants to participate in this project is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7146	Thank you. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in a position to take advantage of the situation when the Prime Minister is making personal changes in the government, to discuss the period behind this government, the period of eight months, and that is enough to say how much this government wants and how willing it is to give its work, its programme and everything it has done over the past period, to regularly present to this Parliament. At first, like any government, maintaining tradition, and this government said that whenever the need for reviewing its work appears it would be happy to go before this parliament, but this is so in the last few years or more specifically in 2000, since the great, sudden and excessive democracy in Serbia came. The government is never willing before parliament, before the public to settle accounts. The fact is that three main segments in the government's work are listed in this debate, and Serbia's first stability is. Serbia is as stable as the government in its work is, for the sake of truth. The government's success and how it dictates conditions the government's composition. We are witnessing that after the parliamentary elections, contrary to the will of most citizens, this so-called. The coalition government. It would be nothing strange or unusual, if only the formation and way of forming the government in the beginning had burdened not only the government's work, but the political situation in Serbia. The government has been forced, coerced in this way, and this government is made up of parties divided by sectors within the government. And that's the discretionary right of the prime minister, or government members to divide the government by sector, by resolutions, but this is something that after eight months proved to be quite unsuccessful. We are witnesses that there are clearly defined, profiled sectors in the government that belong to only one political party. That's the so-called so-called. The economic sector belonged to an expert group, which has succeeded in something after eight months, which is in some way a major minus the prime minister, or prime minister, which allowed "economic reforms" to be put ahead of reforms that included a detailed, fundamental reshuffle of the country's laws. And we are witnessing that from such an imposed idea, Serbia has fallen into an even bigger economic crisis. Serbia has long been in an economic crisis, and that should be said publicly. It's from some back in the '70s. Always as a rapper, as a year-on-year, it takes the '90s, not for real reasons, but for political reasons, and we don't mind, but then we have to admit that an economic disaster took place in Serbia in 2000. Those who have caused economic disaster now in part, smaller ones, sitting in opposition, conditionally speaking, benches and taking out this pay phone, simply a man cannot believe that eventually those who have sold out everything could have sold out in Serbia, those who have ruined the last chance that this Serbia can recover as much economically. Those who bought Soya Protein based on fictitious loans in commercial banks, so when the National Bank as a central monetary institution annuls such a decision, they quickly arrive at the same property in their friendly banks; and what happened was that they bought the company for the bogeyman, and what a significant and high-productive and high-profit company. And then, after they've come to their senses, as accomplices from the opposition benches, they're all selling minds to us, and they're explaining to Serbia that they're, like, this brain, but that time, maybe they'd be stuck deeper in this Serbia's economic crisis. We from the SRS initially warned about what kind of crisis, economic and political, is entering Serbia, by the very way of forming the government. This crisis is deepening. We are witnessing the fact that after local and regional elections, people gave their assessment of what they think and of those parties that make up the coalition government, as well as of all political actors on Serbia's political scene. That's the most real assessment. Whether someone has more or less votes, primarily because of his work, his actions, his activities on the political scene of Serbia, and what now with speakers is that they have achieved success, not being helped by those from the government, would not have passed the first round, but you have immediately started to cry out for help, even now in the second round, repeated in the New Sad elections, praying and bestowing the same coalition partners from the current government to help you. When you're so brave, come out on your own, and this government will go the way the people estimate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7148	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7149	Mr. Prime Minister's proposal, Dr. Kostunica, has not been challenged during the debate so far. There were words that there were no personal objections, and I haven't heard any experts. Therefore, I conclude from this that there is a mood to accept the proposal. When it comes to Mr. Bubal, I must say that I had the opportunity to be in the Federal Republic of Germany in the period from June 13th to June 18th of this year and to speak to the leaders of the Ministry of Trade, Foreign Trade, Industry and Chamber of Commerce. Everyone said only words of praise about Mr. Bubal. In the first few minutes, he was immediately mentioned, without any special reminders, and said he was the right man for communication and economic relations with Germany. So these are the leaders of the German government, and the German government is a parameter in both the world and Europe. As for Mr. Vuksanovic, he's a literature doctor, he was a high school professor. I don't think there's any serious objection to him being a minister of education. If I remember who was sitting on Dosite Obradovic's chair in Serbia and was Minister of Education, I don't think there is any expert argument, for now, that would challenge Mr Vuksanovic. I feel the same way about Professor of Law School, Mr. Parivodic. However, there were some words here, not only about the proposals but also about the proposal, but also about the government, so I would be free to say my own assessment for some of the words that deserve consideration. Namely, there were comparisons between this government and the previous government. I must tell you, I hope you remember that the previous government of Zoran Zivkovic was trying to "reform" that way to send a thousand soldiers to Afghanistan. It was calculated that it could improve the budget or I don't know what, but it was a government that wanted to return the death penalty to our legislation temporarily, but with a return fact, until those to be liquidated were liquidated. The promoter was a doctor of law, Dr. Batic, head of the obstetric Democratic Party. When it comes to economic freedoms, I would remind you that the Heritage Foundation in 2002 estimated that we were on economic freedoms in 146th place. They were behind us then: Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Sudan and Cuba. By 2003, we were on the ranking list by the number of taxes at the top of Europe. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the "Sabljaška" government of Zoran Zivkovic was a government that had an unlimited amount of life, freedom and citizens' property. It was the government that seduced the police state here and which had in its score 11,000 arrested, over three thousand detained, two killed. State security has been lifted all constitutional restrictions on listening to the talks, the right to strike has been lifted, the right to an attorney for those who have been in an emergency endangering the security of citizens and the state. I remind you that General Mihailovic's right to an attorney has not been lifted here, that Stepincu's right to an attorney has not been lifted, that Mussolini has not abolished his right to an attorney, that Hitler has allowed Georgi Dimitrov to have a lawyer. So I wonder who from the democratic bloc is behind this policy, because there seems to be no clear distance. On the other hand, I would remind you, when it comes to the last government's economic programme, that the Los Angeles Times was written that most ministers in the last government act as if they came to the West, but that they speak as if they came from Moscow in the 1960s. Mr. Vlahovicu, you were in that government and it would be delicious if you had no objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7150	The word is made by MP Milovan Markovic, and let MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7151	The Honored Chairman, the Prime Minister, respected ministers and fellow MPs, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will not vote for the proposed appointment of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, not because of personal proposals made, but because it does not agree with the policy the government led in the previous period. It has been said several times and there are many arguments and arguments for it. When this government was formed, we had not only objections to the proposed personal solutions, but also to the concept with which the government came out and presented its programme, made promises, had one populist approach at that moment, showed it through a draft budget law submitted to this assembly and proved it by a budget rebalance, which today was adopted by the same assembly majority. So after this experience of seven, eight months, it is quite clear that this was a failed government, which at the beginning of its mandate made promises, gave indications that we would have a development concept, that we would have a quality economic programme and economic progress in Serbia. Now we're talking completely different. Now it comes from the government and the Prime Minister's messages to conclude what are the reasons for something that didn't happen in the realisation of the government project that we had when the government took responsibility for running economic policy and this state. It was stated here that there was indeed a lot of difficulty that there was no Minister of Economy. Whether the government, by the will of the assembly majority, or, worse still, by the will of the opposition in this House, has lost its economy minister, or had its place vacant for months in this most important portfolio in its government. We also warned at the time that the personal proposal had been made was of insufficient quality, but there was no understanding, as if it didn't matter whether the government would have a minister for the economy. When the economy minister was second-placed, after failing to try and run for president of the Republic of Serbia, when it was seen that the government had no support in the people, when the minister went into a new post, it simply did not rush to fill that very important portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the government lost citizens' trust very quickly, thanks to its populist and demagogue approach, proved first in the presidential elections, the result of the ruling majority's joint candidate. This has been shown in local elections and will be more evident in the next parliamentary elections, which the DS is ready for today and at any future moment, and the issue of the government's survival and the loss of the majority in this assembly is not the DS issue. So, we warn that the government does not lead a consistent economic policy, does not run an economic policy that gives hope to Serbian citizens that they will live better in the near future and that the government has no clear vision that this state and this society should look in some realistically longer period, what the state of Serbia should look like in four years, for eight years, when we hear indications that the deadline is one real deadline, which is linked to the patience of Serbian citizens, that we should become an EU member. From what we have seen in the previous days in the debate on the draft budget rebalancing, from what we have heard today in the explanation of the Prime Minister, what policy was led by the government and what results of the government in the previous period, we have no reason to be very optimistic, but we have reason to believe that in the next election, Serbian citizens will assess in the right way how much this government had the potential to lead a quality economic policy and to lead one development policy in Serbia, and on the other hand, how much responsibility for what it did not do, and it was objectively possible. There are both aspects. So we spoke in March when the draft budget law was on the agenda, that the proposal was not good enough, not only for being pre-remended on the receiving side, which is not realistic, which is not in the part where the projects are acceptable to international financial institutions, but also because we knew that even then the government has no capacity to implement this economic policy. That's what it turned out to be. It was shown in a short time, much shorter than it needed to give a single assessment of the government's functioning. After a year, since the campaign to bring down the previous government began and when the issue of the Constitution of the current Prime Minister was a key state issue, we are in the same place today when it comes to the adoption of this important act. I fear that at this point there is not enough power to initiate a quality procedure that will produce results in this direction and I fear that simply the Prime Minister will lose his favorite theme when we adopt the Constitution, when we agree on the views and really overcome some political reasons, which do not interest the citizens of Serbia, and have joined seriously through the Constitutional Commission the adoption of this highest legislative act in Serbia. What Serbia's citizens are most interested in and what scares them the most is this trend and the drop in employment, or any hope that new jobs can be opened in Serbia recently. This government has failed to secure this period since it took responsibility for Serbia's leadership. So what we are warning and really thinking is that it is necessary to approach a serious turn in economic policy, although we suspect that there is potential and will for such a thing in the current assembly majority and the government itself. Or, let's just say -- we no longer have the ideas, the strength and the responsibility to run such a policy, to go back to parliamentary elections. The DS is prepared for it, will certainly win those parliamentary elections and is ready to take responsibility for the country's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7152	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let MP Zoran Alimpic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7153	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia and expose the prime minister is also a chance for MPs to address the Prime Minister and show him what they think is not doing well in the state of Serbia at the moment. In particular, I have three things to pay attention to. The first problem is Kosovo and Metohija, its organisation and operation of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the areas of Cosmeta. We know that there is a KIM Coordination Centre, despite the failure to adopt the KIM Coordination Centre's work reports, so today neither one knows who drinks nor who pays, nor who wears water, some status quo, which is not good for KIM, nor for Serbia, and especially for Serbs at KIM. The budget rebalances the item, a billion-sixth of a million dinar, which is transferred from one level to another level, in this case from the government level of the Republic of Serbia to the level of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. Where the funds are spent, it is a great unknown, even for MPs in this House. Why not solve the problem of the Cosmet Coordination Centre, to know who the president is, who the members are, who runs those bodies that formed the state of Serbia and the state union of the SCG. If we had formalised and defined relations at the Coordination Centre, we wouldn't have the situation that we have today, that the heads of the KIM Coordination Centre have the opposite opinion of the Government of Serbia, the opposite attitudes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the opinion of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the opposite of the position of the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church. If we had made the appropriate selection of the coordination centre's leadership, the government would have to accept responsibility, and through finance to educate members of the Coordination Centre, to be obliged to implement the policy of the Serbian Parliament, the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the policy of the troubled Serbs at KIM, not that these same members and leaders have the opposite view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely this government, which had no strength, no will, no determination to solve the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre problem. The second often expressed here is regional co-operation and European integration, a sentence that Mr. Prime Minister repeatedly repeated in his presentation. I would remind you that the Romanians have introduced visas, that Bulgarians are preparing to introduce visas, that the state of Macedonia is tearing down our churches, our monuments, our Serb sanctuary, to train terrorists in Albania for actions in Kosovo and Metohija. Is this the regional co-operation Serbia needs to lead? European integration and EU accession, in 2000, seemed delayed for 2007, in 2004, perhaps in 2012, at the end of 2004-2005, the issue came after 2017. So one process that will take a long time. Business, privatisation, budget, budget rebalancing, public spending, external trade deficits and the like, imports, exports, there were many words in previous discussions when budget rebalancing was discussed. The third question, which I would like to point out, is the upcoming election for the KIM Assembly, scheduled for 23 October 2004, I think today is the most important and painful issue for everyone in the state of Serbia. By bringing Resolution to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unanimously, I thought that a political consensus was finally created on the painful issue of KIM. Despite the NSRS' stance, however, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, contrary to the position of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Mr Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, and his political party, regardless of voting for a resolution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia's Plan, change their views and carry out the will of European officials. He calls on Serbs to go to the polls, and his goal is to woo, service and half-time to European and world powers, regardless of the size he wants to create the Cypriot institutions and to cover up the disastrous results of KFOR and UNMIK in KIM. The words - the armed force is KFOR, the civilian administration is UNMIK, we have to go to the Cypriot institutions, we have to go to Europe, they sound nice when spoken from Belgrade, but they are very painful and difficult for Serbs on KIM, because we should not forget that KFOR and UNMIK are not five months on KIM, for five and a half years, and the results are catastrophic. I am telling you, regardless of what is stated to control KFOR and UNMIK, whether they control the KIM territory, that there are certain parts of the territory against which neither the KFOR soldier nor the UNMIK civilian police officer can step on. These are parts of the territory where terrorists, criminals, have been trained in which camps for the kidnapped Serbs and one part of the dark that does not serve the European international community, which did not have the strength to seduce order in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, regardless of the time, to say that these elections in Kosovo and Metohija will fail, despite President Tadic's message, a response of less than 5% will be in the upcoming elections Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7154	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. (Dusan Petrovic: Replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Replica? Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? I'm sorry, I didn't notice you looking for a replica. [[Dusan Petrovic: I said replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7155	Of course, it is not about advocacy, and it is a dictionary that has shaped politics for ten years that has led to Serbia losing its effective power in Kosovo and Metohija. The president of the Republic, and the DS fully supports the policy of the president of the Republic, makes difficult decisions, takes responsibility and fights for Serbia. We are fighting for Serbia just in a situation where KFOR is an armed force in Kosovo and Metohija and UNMIK is a civilian government in Kosovo and Metohija. It is not DS and Boris Tadic did not lead to this leading policy to be this state of affairs, and it is not Boris Tadic, and it is not the DS that signed the capitulation in Kosovo and Metohija, but rather the policy in which the SRS participated, while Slobodan Milosevic led the policy. DS and President Tadic are fighting for Serbia in circumstances that are difficult, for the DS and president of the Republic of Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, and what is in our power we will do, rather than lead a cowardly policy, by turning our heads and saying, if they have decided to take Kosovo and Metohija -- they will take it from us; no, we will fight, so what the Lord God gives us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7156	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not the DS's fault that Resolution 1244 took place, it is Zoran Djindjic's fault that Serbia was bombed. Maybe you weren't in Serbia at the time, I was, I was watching the report where Zoran Djindjic was during the bombing and what messages he sent. Here I asked Zoran Djindjic if he could show his passport and see how he crossed from Montenegro at the non-existent border crossing in Croatia, and from there he went to Germany and called for the bombing to continue, Milosevic is close to dropping. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, no one has the deed to claim that its policy is correct and that other people's policies are wrong. You're in a difficult position. Contrary to the whole of Serbia, you represent the view that elections in Kosovo and Metohija should be made, and now I am not telling you that you are traitors. You're traitors for other things. This is why you're mercenaries. You will be traitors when you fake these elections in Kosovo and Metohija. You have experience in that. That's what you all did two years ago when 5% of Serbs came out, and you announced that the elections were successful and you had your own parliamentary group. Mr. Petrovic, if I belonged to a stranger who killed his closest associates and brought down their homes because they were the biggest criminals in the country, I wouldn't dare go out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7158	Replica. Please, just slowly, you gave Mr. Petrovic a line for Mr. Kragovic's exposure, because of the party's name, you gave the replica to Mr. Petrovic's presentation. Mr. Petrovic, you have no right to a replica. (Dusan Petrovic: Article 100) You can, of course, call the Rules of Procedure, if that's the point. Here you go. They all have the same rights, so don't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7159	Of course, on the basis of article 100, I asked for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you, Mr. Nikolic, are lying...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7160	Mr Petrovic, as I warned one MP two days ago, so I warn you for the first time, and if I warn you twice about insulting the MPs of the people, I will take away your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7161	I'll take it. Mr. Nikolic has brought forth here the gravest possible untruth, but it is the manner of his policy. This is what Serbian citizens know, and that is why Mr Nikolic loses the election whenever it appears, which is why close associates of Mr Nikolic lose elections whenever they appear, and sometimes happens to win somewhere. That's how it's gonna be in the future, just like it's been before. Mr. President, you did not warn Mr. Nikolic when he qualified DS's behaviour as mercenaries and traitors. Here, let me warn you. Of course, all that you said about late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who is one of the greatest politicians the Serb family has ever had. Of course, the problem is whether you understand it or not, and even for you, I think you understand. You're a criminal, which is a matter of your character. So I can say, Mr. Nikolic, ten years of politics, and in those ten years you were an active participant in that policy. I qualify you as the greatest pest, the greatest pest in the history of the Serbian people, and that's no insult, that's a finding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7162	This is a second warning, Mr. Petrovic. This was a business statement. Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7163	Okay, you're my pest, and I'm your thief, criminal, murderer...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7164	This is your first warning now, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7165	No, I was just figuring out what we told each other. Nothing else. I mean, if you'd grown up a little bit more, I could feel offended, and like this, I don't see any way of making you insult me. It's impossible. There are those tiny ones who would bite you by the leg, but they're so small they can't do you any harm. The DS can't do any damage to the SRS. Turn to your coalition capacities. You have these coalition capacities, you're a girl for everyone, you can have one, with the other, with the third, with the fourth. I'll say that, and when I talk about some of the parties that are members of the government, don't think you're the only ones I'm gonna tell today. And if you were a little older and more serious and a little longer in politics, you would remember that DS was the best friend of Radovan Karadzic, that Zoran Djindjic and absent Vojislav Kostunica were best friends of Radovan Karadzic. As I see it now, Vojislav Kostunica is silent about this friendship. When Radovan Karadzic was listed as a war criminal, Zoran Djindjic said he did not know him at all. In the book of Tomislav Panajotovic, your MP, and the book is called "The daily of one MP", described one evening and a session of the DS Parliament club here, in the Serbian Parliament, following the arrival of Zoran Djindjic from Pala. It's awkward to talk. With enthusiasm, Zoran Djindjic said -- we have been negotiating with Karadzic all day, and Tomislav Nikolic is sitting in another office with Velibor Ostojic. It was Radovan Karadzic's relationship to the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party. So cover your ears. When he was cute at the Palace, you used to run to eat it. When it became dangerous, you became Hague investigators. Your former MPs have signed up to testify in The Hague against some of their fellow MPs. I don't even know why you're touching the Serbian Radical Party. Every time you come down on us, we put two or three new percentage points in our pocket. Serbian citizens love the one attacked by the Democratic Party. (President: Time. ) The Democratic Party, it is not only Cedomir Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. It is Bojan Pajtic, Novakovic from Novi Sad, so is Neda Arneric. The Democratic Party, which is a long-distance vote, is the virtual provision of the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a law-making year with 11 Serbian citizens who are not MPs. The Democratic Party, it's Serbia for 18 months without the Constitutional Court. The Democratic Party, it's a country of bribery, corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7166	Mr. Nikolic, not just the weather, but I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7167	The current police minister told you -- while you were in power, the state was ruled by mobsters and criminals. I didn't hear you deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7168	Here you go, Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7169	No one's been arrested from the Democratic Party. Your Janjic, who embezzled the money, is an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, stuck some kind of prison. Mr. Nikolic, mania size is a category of medical and psychiatric, and if you have a problem with that phenomenon, there are institutions that deal with it. The Democratic Party does not want to deal with the Serbian Radical Party by its intention to harm it, the Democratic Party prevents the damages of the Serbian Radical Party in Serbian politics and in Serbian society. That's what we've done so far, you've been beaten up by Boris Tadic in the elections, and we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7170	Replica, Mr. Vukic, to the presentation of Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7171	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, interesting what that means in psychiatry of auto projections. You see, every day in most media, we watch an ego of maniacs making the following statements, and you guess who it is. "If I hadn't asked Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections, we couldn't have prevented the US congress from voting the resolution. If I hadn't called on the commander of NATO's southern wing in time, there would have been no rescue for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija." I'm just waiting for that politician, and you guess which politician it is, to say that if I wasn't alive, the sky would fall on you Serbs and citizens of Serbia, but fortunately I'm alive, so I prefer to look at myself in the mirror every day, because mirrores of anyone more beautiful on the globe than our president has never seen. I think it's time for us to break up with this titoistic idolatry, to deal seriously with the citizens of Serbia, and whoever is an ego maniac can be cured. It's a very unpleasant disease and it's possible to cure. In this degree, I mean, very difficult. As for the mention of who's in jail and who's not in jail, I really don't know who's in jail, I don't know who's there today, but I'm telling you that I know a lot of people who belong there and, when there's a rule of law, who's gonna have to go from the Democratic Party to prison because they robbed the state, not by a thousand, ten or a million euros, but by tens of millions of euros, because they took everything they came in because they were sick of Serbian citizens. How much, Jocic? Djelic only 700 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to deal with it. And with someone being beaten up by Boris Tadic, he's not, poor, no one, and he knows it well. When he was coming to state television, he only today has crushed and crippled our people, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. He's been in psychotherapy so far. Our players at the Olympics lose 6-0, and he begs God to get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7172	Mr. Wolf, it's an institution. Be kind, I accept what you said about Asterix and Obelix, but now don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7173	I'm talking about the man's main role so far has been to call our football players on the phone when they lose 6-0, to lose the next to the football power of Australia 5-1. I understand that, but let him stop dealing with what he's been doing lately, because he's only doing damage to the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia. Let him do something he promised people, and he promised more wages, bigger pensions, new jobs. That's what he promised. That's not gonna happen. That's why Serbia needs changes. The fact that you have all joined together against Mr Nikolic, he has thus gained more than 46%. Don't worry, every election percentage by percentage, and then for everything you've done to Serbia and Serbian citizens, you'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7174	I will ask you, too, Mr Petrovic, to ask all the participants in the debate, once again I remind you all that there is no insult to MPs and parties. There's no insult to any institution. There will be no basis for replicas under Article 97 and I will break the replicas. Be kind, take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7175	Although you have graduated from law school, Mr. Vucic, you do not understand yourself, and you have shown that when the minister asked if he heard Mr. Djelic commit some kind of crime. Of course he didn't commit any crime and of course the minister of justice gave an explanation, but it's less evil, Mr. Wolf. It's a bigger evil that you don't understand politics. This was shown in white by your failure in the Belgrade mayoral elections. The bile can be poured out behind this pay phone, in the newspaper and on television, but that doesn't change anything on the fact that you're a professional loser.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7176	Member of the 97th to which I have just called: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP of the other parliamentary group, citing his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication". Article 3 "The decision on cases referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article shall be made by the President of the National Assembly." Please, I warned you, and after this presentation, I'm going to make a decision to break up anyway, and I hope you don't take offense to anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something reduced Mr. Petrovic's tone of voice earlier, and now he realizes that there was nothing from the scream, that he had to be polite, or that something about these factions is now a question within the DS. I'd better stay out of it. I've graduated from law school, I don't know how I learned, most of all I've gotten grades from people sitting in your party and in some other parties, or at least they've been sitting down, so they've left, anyway, I don't think that's something I could justify to you and where I should justify myself to you. It's not just Mr. Djelic, because Mr. Djelic, in his own time, when you talk about the law, made judgments against the people he prosecuted because they gave labor stamps from the presentation bill, so you made public judgments in your media. Don't talk about it to anyone, because all of Serbia has learned how to run a haika and a harangu. As for the policy story, whether I was a professional loser or not, Mr Petrovic, that evening, even though I was an SRS candidate, I went against everyone else in Belgrade, got 48.46% of the votes and your candidate 50.1%. And now let me tell you, before the final results came, when we got them from our key places, we had 50 to 49, first I called my opponent, congratulated him on the phone, only then I spoke to the press and congratulated him publicly, even though I was only 1%, and if everyone went against the SRS candidate, I lost. This shows dignity in conduct, attitude towards elections, attitude towards citizens. And today I am very grateful and I am taking the opportunity to express my gratitude once again to all the citizens who voted for the SRS candidate who voted for change. That's why I'm sure we'll win in the coming period and in the next election. I'm telling you, maybe I'm a professional loser, maybe I'll accept what you're saying, I guess there are a lot better candidates in the SRS. If you've all been struggling with me this much, well, it's hard for you now that you've got a much better candidate than me, then you know you're not worth anything and you're not doing anything right. Mr. Petrovic, enough of this DS story, and when you get a second round, come on everybody, please help us out a little bit, help us all, so we don't lose our cash, so we don't lose our finances, so you can keep robbing and dealing with corruption...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7178	Time and second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7179	That is why you seek this support and help, because your slogan – our house – means that it is only yours and that no one should ever look into it again. You will now see that in many municipalities in Serbia, financial and police inspectors will look into these tills, to show citizens how this money has been spent and what changes Serbian citizens need. And Serbian citizens need, above all, honest people, which means everything contrary to what the DS stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7180	The People's Messenger Zoran Alimpic has the word, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the present members of the government, I really think it's tasteless and it's disgusting to attack the murdered Prime Minister, the man who was killed in the assassination, and we here can attack and insult ourselves, but Zoran Djindjic has gone into history. History will give judgment and it will certainly be positive. Please do not attack the Prime Minister who was murdered in such a way. I don't think it's simply worthy of this assembly, but I suggest we go back to the topic, and the subject, to remind you, is not DS, is the topic of selecting new ministers for the government of the Republic of Serbia. This assembly has 250 MPs. The minimum majority needed to be the government in this assembly is 126 MPs. Today, a rebalancing proposed by the government with a majority of 128 MPs who voted in favour was present in 220. So, the rebalancing was adopted, the finance minister didn't have to resign, the thing was saved and the government would rule for a while, but at what cost? I'll draw your attention to one thing that may be coincidence and coincidence, but it'll be a little bit of someone who believes it. The NDS that joined the DSS a few days ago has three MPs in this assembly. The three MPs are here today, they voted for rebalancing, and they were the scale tab that ruled in favour of the government's proposal and thanks to their votes, the government's proposal was adopted today. The three MPs are the capital of their president's party, therefore, Mr. Slobodan Vuksanovic. It appears that the price for their votes is the appointment of Mr Vuksanovic as minister of education and sports, and they say that Mr Vuksanovic once again had a similar agreement and was deceived by the DSS, when he was allegedly promised support for his candidacy as mayor of Belgrade, so since the support was lagging behind and since he had passed quite infamously in those elections, it is now being made up for by the ministerial post. To be clear, I have nothing against Mr Vuksanovic as minister and I have nothing against his MPs, these are my friends, Mr Vuksanovic will, I'm sure, be a much better minister than she was a previous minister, worse cannot possibly be. Mr. Vuksanovic was the vice president of the DS, he was an MP in this assembly in front of the DS, and there is certainly a reason why we of the DS proposed him for those seats. This is about something else, it's about principle. So, I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister to ask him personally, is it really possible that the education and education portfolio in Serbia, as well as sports, deserves to be a coin for political trade in this assembly and that two or three votes are bought in this way, so that the government will rule another day or another month. It is obvious that the agreement was that these 128 MPs today vote rebalancing and that on that same day, it is today, with those same 128 votes being voted and Mr Vuksanovic as minister of education and sports. I repeat, he may be a good minister, but this is the way political trade in education in Serbia certainly didn't deserve it. Education, education is a very important resource, because it is the future of this country and it is not good to trade the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7182	The right to replica has Mr Aligrudic on behalf of the DSS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7183	As for MPs belonging to the NDS parliamentary group, they were the first members of the joint assembly club with the DSS from the start, later to stand out, but all the time, uninterrupted, without any conditions, and that must be said openly, they voted as the DSS parliamentary group voted. There was no moment to talk about what you were talking about, Mr. Alimpic. As for how you vote here and how many votes are adopted here, you're right, there were 128 people present, and it's a good thing you said that, because you have to remember the time when decisions were adopted and the votes of the inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7184	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared. Dear colleagues, please be quiet. Have patience to finish this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was our turn to make an account before the Prime Minister and the members of the government present. It is now for the government and for Kostunica himself a set of unfortunate circumstances, that, with one new combination in his cabinet, by the appointment of three new old ministers, because Mr. Bubalo, who was informally the Minister of Industry, since the departure of Dragan Marsicanin now officially and becomes, was actually the reason for the prime minister to address us today, to see what the government, which we have criticised during its constitution, has done for the past eight months. It was clear from Vojislav Kostunica's exposé in March that the formation of the government in such a way, the collection of coalition partners we called "with a stake and a rope", along with a fluctuating majority of the government on glass legs, after blackmail and pressure, was not a relief for the citizens of Serbia. We Serbian radicals are not underprivileged people, but we have a very rich extensive political experience. Mr Petrovic, we knew then, as we now know, that any kind of co-operation with the Democratic Party, and especially after the presidential elections held, direct support for Boris Tadic and unfortunately for his victory and his way of ruling today in Serbia, is not good for Kostunica, not for this government, but for the citizens of Serbia. In this context, you from the Democratic Party have not been able to dispute with some arguments what we have been talking about for several months, since you've been in co-habitation, and that word is now well understood and seen, with Kostunica and his government. As far as national, economic and social policies are concerned, there have been no favourable developments, those affecting the living standards of our citizens. Namely, although Mladjan Dinkic said yesterday that the number of people who found employment in this year is 21,000 per million unemployed, it is only a matter of administrative performance, the data Dinkic made yesterday. The fact is that almost 3% of the population in Serbia is completely hungry, without being able to provide themselves with normal existence. It is no longer just a Kragujevac, which was a synonym for the hungry, for the unemployed, that is what all of Serbia and every city you go to today. It is simply incomprehensible that without scruples, Aleksandar Vlahovic, as former privatisation minister, says that the workers left without a job in the robbery privatisation during DOS rule, when Vlahovic was a minister, that with Novakovic's ticket from Thessaloniki, you voted the Labour Act, which left so many people without a job and that you did not accept, I mean first of all those who form a backbone in this government and in Kostunica, and on the DSS, and on his coalition partners. The request of Serbian radicals in February to change the Law on Privatisation urgently, the Labour Act, and especially to pay much more attention to what is today the greatest pain of all our citizens, which is how they will survive, how they will find work, how they will support children, how to wait for winter, and how to account for these people, the average residents, with something that would require a sharp calculation of the state's apparatus, which is a accumulated crime, corruption that has taken hold, starts with the local community, the level of a populated town, across the municipality, or the city. If you ask a resident in Serbia today how he imagines it would be better, regardless of who is being transferred, who is the prime minister and what is the future government, he will tell you that it would be better for all Serbian citizens if there were fewer thieves, if there were no financial oligarchy, if there were no Serbian tycoons. And one of those people, allegedly a businessman and mayoral candidate in the last election, has these days said he's alluding to be a second or third man in the DSS, and he doesn't care what place it is, it's important to be around. If the DSS is headed by Kostunica and such coalition partners in co-habitation with DS, whose best appearance is its President Boris Tadic, the image of evil, not only for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but for the entire Serbian people who clearly know what state and national interests are, for which Boris Tadic, such a narcissist, in three working days, as far as he had in the position of the president of the Republic, did not have time to think, if DSS with Kostunica as prime minister of the republican government in co-habitation with Tadic, who has Dusan Petrovic, Bojan Pajtic, Nenad Bogdanovic, was hardly used to the term of what cohabitation is. It's hard for us, if we don't get the chance as soon as possible to be really responsible people, who, as an unsuspecting person, have come to all elections and have achieved such a result themselves, if we don't get a chance to show the citizens of Serbia that it's really the right choice to get the highest percentage of votes right now. Because of this situation, and yet here is the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus, who was a synonym for our country's entry into the so-called. international institutions, so it turns out that they are not so fond of us, and Kostunica himself said as president of Yugoslavia - the more the world owes us, than we owe the world. It has been shown that he, from the prime minister's position, no longer intends to direct such messages to those who are unconditionally blackmailing us, because the government does not have any legitimacy based on the electoral body in Serbia, because it is in cohabitation with those who, like Mr Petrovic, are photocopied and faxed. Because, Mr. Petrovic, in Sapac they call you "Dule 5%", and you'd better explain to us why you didn't run for the president of the municipality, when you already have such a reputation and authority that you obviously don't have, rather than give sermons to those who win against everyone, almost win, and be sure that 2005 will only be a victory for Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7186	Right on line, Mr. Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7187	Mrs. Jovanovic, it's not your first time telling lies to the most difficult species, but it's a matter of morality. When you speak of good and evil, the foundation had to distinguish between good and evil, and as you and your experience must not be foreign to speaking such false things. As you told me, which doesn't matter, the citizens of Zapca know how things are, as well as about Mr Boris Tadic and the qualifications of his personality as an image of evil. Let me tell you something, dear Miss Jovanovic, in Sapac, the candidate of the DS won 68% in the first round of elections for the president of the municipality and your candidate 16%. In the second round, DS candidate received two-thirds of the vote and, as Mr. Toma Nikolic was beaten in the presidential election, so the radicals were beaten in Sapac. Why didn't I run? So there's no need for me to be in charge of the DS and the Sabbath community anymore. They've grown new people, and thank God seven or eight people have been able to run politics for the past four years. Sabac will be one of the cities leading Serbia into the EU, unfortunately for you and for my great joy. You're losers, it's your destiny, but, well, someone in Serbia has to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7188	Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7189	Let me get this straight. The only one Boris Tadic beat up, that's the cheerleading guy in Guca, the other one gone. I've been told by some colleagues that your eyes reveal that you have some sort of severe mental condition. I'm not an expert at it, but as I estimate, you had a very hard chair when you were a kid.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7190	Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7191	Mr. Nikolic, more tragic than your primitiveism is this primitiveism, which is depicted through laughter. You have one problem, Mr Nikolic, that your primitiveism cannot win Serbia and because Serbia is a civilized country, primitive policy, primitive people, primitive presidents, primitive candidates have been defeated so far in Serbia. A primitive like you, thank God, will never be in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7192	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7193	So, when the argument runs out, Mr. Petrovic starts talking about Europeanism, primitiveism, and I don't know what else. He didn't think of the third thing, I guess he'll have it by the end of the night. He hasn't talked about percentages yet. It works, it doesn't talk, it's official use. As for whoever is going to win in Serbia and what are Serbian citizens, it is true, Serbian citizens are serious people, responsible people waiting to see what someone does. Do you know who the primitives are? The primitives are not the ones who beat you in a direct duel from the assembly booth, not those who are more witty than you are, more educated, smarter, whatever you want, the recipients are the ones who tell the people – we set up a national office to talk to citizens, we set up a national office to help you, dear citizens of Serbia. And when Serbian citizens come to the front of the presidency building and the National Office, they are welcomed by special forces and gendarmes, police, not to approach the door of the presidency, the door of their president elected by the National Office. On every man, there were three-to-teeth armed police officers. Democraticly, there's nothing. Mr Petrovic, it is primitiveism, when you insult the intelligence of the people, when you insult the citizens, when you promise them higher wages, higher pensions, new jobs. Then the only thing you do all day is we save Serbia from radicals. You save Serbia from yourself. You'd better get out of the way, because all you could do was kidnap her. In every corruption affair you could participate in, you participated. Serbian citizens will know that they also evaluate this kind of unfulfilled promise and immorality and, if you will, the worst possible primitive. The interest of Serbian citizens is the most important and we need to take care of it. The one who won most of the election for the president, not thanks to your party, but thanks to many who supported it, representatives of the government and some other opposition parties and some other factors, thanks to you scaring the people and saying it would happen I don't know what. Of course, nothing would happen. And you made that up. Now, with that, don't talk about someone's primitiveism, but do something for the citizens of Serbia, do something to make Serbian citizens live better, to have a higher standard. Where are your new jobs, where are your chains and locks, how did you speak along with the one who supported you? Do it, Mr. Petrovic, so you won't be primitive. Like this, every time you go out, you will try to compete with Tomislav Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, with anyone, but you have no chance with either of them. I'll tell you why. (President: Take care of the weather, Mr. Wolf. Because they are ordinary people, people of the people, speak for the people and for themselves, not for someone else or for the third. Because these people never took part in any corruption affair. That's why they weren't afraid of you in 2000 or 2001, which is why we're not afraid of you today when you think you're very strong and you can do whatever you want. That is why, Mr Petrovic, with much patience and much pain, because we know that Serbian citizens suffer under your authority, wait for new elections, beat you and show that changes can be made in Serbia and that Serbian citizens can live incomparably better, and without the primates of the authorities, as you today, Mr Petrovic, show.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7194	The People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic earlier said they call a gentleman in Capco "a gentleman five percent", and she is not even aware of how happy the citizens of Zapca are, because those in Nis from his party were not doing anything below 10 per cent. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister, who said that today we have one serious task, to choose three ministers who will lead three important resolutions and that the government shows that the team that can be changed in walking, to make the results even better. In order for some results to be better, there must be any results. Indeed, not wanting to be malice, I have noticed some major changes, and I know with confidence that Serbian citizens do not live any better. Back in Nis, we had a demonstration of first those workers and sellers who worked on fleas, and then those who had neatly registered bars, shops at some business center came. Both were dissatisfied. The workers of Jastrepca, workers of the Machine Industry, workers of the tobacco industry, and all those who work in Serbia's cities today are dissatisfied. I don't know, it may seem to you, Mr. President, that there is a shift, but we who regularly go to markets, which we regularly buy in jewels, shops, see what people there think about this rule and about the situation today in Serbia. What is the political stability, which is one of the qualities that you have stated? Look, there is no political stability when the government invites citizens of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija not to go to elections, and the president of the state calls the same citizens and says – go to the elections. There is no political stability when Serbian citizens from Kosovo and Metohija protest in front of the National Assembly building, protesting in front of the building that the president of Serbia is working in, wanting to be accepted as a national lawyer, and before them comes the cordon of special police, the gendarmes heavily armed, God forgives me, as if war were waged in Serbia. There is no political stability as long as you cooperate, as long as you try to create political unity in many Serbian cities with that party that you think is all the worst. This lack of understanding by the government, by the ministry, has made it impossible for the law to be corrected, and we have received a lot of laws and bills in these last month. I still don't see any additions and amendments to the Privatisation Act, and the fact is that we have problems in the privatisation process with the budget, and that was the previous agenda point. This is an opportunity for me to represent, which is a committee, which is to tell the government and the Prime Minister and the ministers what is obviously a major problem in the privatisation process itself. If there is no desire to review those irregularities, those unfair privatisations from the mandate of the previous government, I think it is important that at least the future privatisation process takes place significantly more agile and legally and that all the shortcomings observed through changes and additions to the Law of Privatisation. The biggest problem so far in the process of privatisation is contracts that are typical, which make it impossible for the state, government, workers to fight for their rights. A little interest has been shown by the government in audit houses that are catastrophic and we are constantly facing falsified audit reports. The control and control of privatisation is very bad and only the state of trade courts is so bad that we are not in a situation when we initiate a procedure for the termination of contracts to protect the privatisation entities and our businesses from further destruction. When it comes to the market, and above all under the Securities Market Act, there are many shortcomings, and it is also shown through these affairs with "Knjiz Miloš" and "C Marekt". It is not good at the very law that a mechanism for taking action from workers has been introduced, and thus the small shareholders are placed in the situation that they have no protection and these are some problems, which I unfortunately have to present through this assembly pay phone, because so far there has been insufficient understanding from the members of the government and the Ministry of Economy for all their problems. The quality of the privatisation so far is extremely bad and that is what the government would have to take care of and how. Instead of getting more jobs instead of getting better salaries, instead of having new production programs, something quite the opposite is happening. No wonder so many dissatisfactions with citizens so far during privatisation. When it comes to macroeconomic policy and the situation in the economy, inflation in any case is a major problem facing the government. The trade deficit, and so did my predecessors, the good part of the government's non-engagement, we came into a situation to increase, because there were no measures for which the trade deficit had to be reduced. There was no incentive to export, and we came into a situation that perhaps the only thing that is light in the government's work so far is that economic growth that is high at first sight, which, at least in the last few months, is being drained. As a country, we have a low level of investment in all areas anyway. I think it's about 14-15% of gross social product, and unlike the countries of the environment, from countries that are in transition, where it's up to 20 to 25%. The government had to account much more for public spending by now, because public spending is at that level that our economy can't handle. Finally, I would say that it is obvious that this government is not stable, that this government is on a certain deadline and that this is the basic reason why this government cannot seriously engage in economic reforms and cannot be a guarantee that we will be able to come out of these economic difficulties that we face within a reasonable period of time. This is why the SRS and SRS MPs will not be able to vote for these ministers, because it is obvious that we need a more stable government, which, systemically, strategically, for one longer term, will be able to solve all problems in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7196	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. You've got 53 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7197	This is the agenda period that's been waiting a few months. She waited for the government of the Republic of Serbia for a long time or, to be precise, almost since its establishment and formation, had no minister in charge of privatisation. It's probably part of some tactics, a game, that the minister is running for president, and that's left to some verse. We are witnessing that these eight months continued the verse, in these eight months it was not created, but continued where the predecessor had stopped. Since three-fifths of the Prime Minister's presentation was dedicated to the results of this government's work, and those two-fifths of the bio-data on the candidates, I get the impression that today we shouldn't repeat that debate we had eight months ago, no matter what we heard for the second time one mini-expose. We need to focus and see why the government of the Republic of Serbia should not rule in Serbia, or if there is any indication that the government, it looks quite bad. Of course, there's no way around logical, natural, and I'd say ideological, political, even financial, if you will, and any other connection between this and the previous government. Whether they now call this DOS minus 1, so it's all in brackets plus 1, 2, 3, or some other name, but it all comes down to the same. We had a previous government that was obviously in charge of finishing the first phase of transition. Onanam talked about how to make a house, but from the roof, not from the foundation. We had various locks, politically and parliamentaryly, that he could vote whoever he wanted. Parliamentaryism to come down to the lowest possible branches, organised crime, infiltration, as well as anything suggested by the West, has been proposed as the largest liquid. Something similar is happening to this government. It takes what the previous draft did, changes a few words, like there's some important difference from the previous government, as something new. It is again supported by the IMF, the investment fund, the OSCE, other institutions of government and NGOs, and who knows which organisations. They get applause if they're followed by a warrant from abroad. What does that mean for us specifically in our lives? That almost doesn't interest anyone. We have a situation where the government enjoys support, so it doesn't enjoy support, so the parties that act on a local level cooperate, so they don't cooperate, so they support each other, and we have proof that something unnatural is going on, but obviously it's made up. Designated to cry for political stability in this situation. What we can unmistakably guess is that this government has not secured political stability in eight months. A government that does not have political stability cannot be the authority to exercise executive power in this country. That is why there is a conflict of political and other interests within the government, and therefore it is no wonder that in this government there is going on that capital investment minister black finance minister, much more than it is the leader of some of the opposition parties. In such conditions you can't work. It confuses citizens, and as soon as the government is unnaturally composed, it is not the original, authentic will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then the absence of citizens from the elections appears as boomerang, so it is no wonder that 30 per cent has now come out. If it goes on like this, it'll probably be even more than that with our constituents, and that's exactly the interest of this government. She's on that trail, on that road. When within the democratic bloc's parties, regardless of who you're putting up with, arguing, arguing, making sure that citizens recognize each other's internal positions towards Serbian citizens, and not something new, strategic new, something different, something that could mean something concrete, tangible, even a small benefit tomorrow. Citizens don't see that benefit for eight months. According to old manners, we are talking about major successes, transformations, reforms, reform law in 2007, reform this in 2005, we will see this reformally. When? When the dice come together, it will be. Political stability has not been secured, and within the democratic bloc's parties there are difficult divisions, again for positioning, but it seems to me that this division of the election, the occupation elections in Kosovo and Metohija, can be the drop that will shed that glass of misery and misery that has been gathering long ago with our citizens. I think you've gotten into it easily. As you noticed, this media support, and it exists, because almost all the media have their sponsors and know what they need to represent, it's the same democratic story, and it comes down to the story of some new reality. There's no strategy. There is no interest in this strategy, the interests of this country and this people. There's a new reality -- we're good, we want to, but, you know, the pressures are coming from the West, so we have to do it. It's all such an excuse. He threatens us with debt slavery, and he's seriously threatening us, he's announcing himself, he's threatening to depose the rest of our social property in the upcoming bankruptcy proceedings. Who's going to buy it already knows, there's no principle of difference, is it Baby, Chad, Cole, uh, that, it's all the same. If that was a barrel before, this is a godfather's, a party. They hide money, they launder money. The greatest success in the Power industry, we just heard, we got in touch. Of course, Hamovic and Lazarevic can finish the job, they can work freely, the systems are in ruins. To understand the situation of Serbia and with this government, look at the railway. They say the railroad mirror is a state. If you look at our railroad and ask people who work on the railways, you ask those who use rail services, you'll get a real picture of the situation in our country. Neither the authority nor the strategic objectives are known, nor the direction in which the reform should go, nor the time-limit to end, nor any of these issues achieve political agreement. And then it's like out of the blue saying -- we're doing it as liquid, but what we're gonna do is we're not gonna do it until the Constitution changes. Neither has a comprehensive vision of what the constitution would look like, and I am absolutely sure that the new constitution would look like the Belgrade Agreement. You remember, a few of them signed it, and two of them said right away -- we don't know what we signed. Then it's said here -- we're a declarative advocate for the state community, we need to give it a chance, we need to provide it, etc., but the other side won't. When it's said that we can do two tracks, well, what do we do, it's a new reality. That's the policy. Some new reality is accepted, and the new reality is some sword standing on the side, or not being sharp enough to say it's that stick and that carrot, so now everything and everything is conditioned. What do I blame this government for? I resent this government for not fulfilling any promises. The government said it would pay attention to what's going on in The Hague against our citizens. She paid attention, so the minister took a prisoner. What else did she do about The Hague? Nothing. They've blocked the law, changed the Law of Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, didn't occur to them to open an office or any association, it doesn't matter what they call it, to help people out there prove the truth. Why would they help? The head of the district court, which was at the time of Vidovdan in 2001 when it was delivered, is now the Supreme Court judge. There is no responsibility. What's helping? They jacked off some of the families of the Hague detainees, and the government seemed to be looking forward to it. There are various delegations walking around here, everyone can lecture us about humanity, about democracy. Never has this government warned anyone that this must not be done in Serbia. This government didn't do things all the way. Why would he? This and that previous government sought amnesty for the Cypriot terrorists. They're all folk heroes and now we say March 17th. What are we talking about? What are we hoping for with this government? What is the best way to support this government is to show previous elections, not only local ones, but also presidential ones. I'm not going to express it in percentages, but with this composition and this proposal, I'm not going to be dealing with any data on who the candidates are, based on one of the proposed candidates, it can be concluded that the government has reached an epochal conclusion that, if 25 people who represent a party that received one percent, the government provides a majority. That majority in the electoral body make sure it's below 20% in the sum. Here's the evidence. One of the candidates for the minister did not even score a percentage in these elections. The government in this system, even in another co-habitation, and even in that interpretation of the word co-habitation, cannot extract Serbia. He cannot get Serbia out because there is no elemental political stability. The people don't trust this government. The proof is that even when a social conflict occurs, people have no other way to solve it, so they have to go out on the street. This government must not stand before citizens but simply let it go to some of its own, it will reach the media, they will divorce it in two, three, five or six days. If that doesn't work, then some new bomb news is being served. There is Legia, Beba, Ceda, those others who can draw a little attention, Hamovic, Dinkic, with his financial lobby, pushing his business. If I don't talk, it's a common-known thing, you know which party holds the funding, you know which party holds the police, you know which party holds the state's security, you know which party holds some investments, you know which party should be in charge, you know, it's all out, it's all parched and now I'm going back to that eight months ago. This is the government of compromises, financial lobbies from the country and abroad, which won't wave much, will let this go to some queen, and at the appropriate moment, when they lose and trust the citizens in the elections, they'll inform us, it's democratic, we admit, by losing the state on the way, and that's why we go out and criticise. It is your right to suggest, your authority, since you have the right majority to vote, it is yours to organise yourself to work, but you take care of the citizens of Serbia a little, you are leading us in the wrong direction that you do not have political stability and that you, as you do, are taking us in the wrong direction. And when we do, we'll see that someone fell into the pit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7198	The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the MP Alexander Djordjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that today's debate has only a formal character and that it is completely irrelevant for Serbia to change in certain ministries. You can see for yourself that no one has noticed that Mr. Marsican has been the minister of economy and privatisation for several months, but we have a ministry, so it's our turn to have a minister. Also, I believe that nothing will fundamentally change in Serbia, especially when it comes to education, change in the Ministry of Education. As far as the Ministry of Economic Relations is concerned, the change and arrival of Mr Predrag Bubal as Minister of Economy will also have no effect on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It will move over and it will happen because the government has no general concept of how to function and how to continue to lead Serbia. I'll try to give you three examples. For example, a few months ago, certain government ministers came out to the public and said that the government would provide favourable loans for agriculture, and a large number of people in the meantime, agricultural producers, registered as farmers and that this is their only interest, it is being extended from month to month, but no credit is coming. Another important thing that shows that the government, especially the Ministry of Economy, does not have any long-term strategy, is seen by the government's behaviour towards the mining-topic base Bor. Two months ago, when the miners from Bor and Majdanpek blocked the highway at Paracin, they were then promised a shortcut by the government, individual ministers, 30m euros in credit, which will arrive at the Mining-Topionary Basen Bor within a maximum period of 30 days. It has been more than two months, and no euro from the promised loan has reached RTB Bor, but before the elections, ministers have arrived to support their candidates. Some of them didn't even know how to pronounce in the interview the full name RTB Bor, and the ministers only came to support it, and when the elections ended, it was seen how dishonest the government was, meanwhile, in a "political" tender for the sale of RTB Bor. It just shows that the government had no desire or goal of actually giving 30m euros to increase the volume of production, because it did not now call the tender. It is illogical that they were before the elections, and there was Mr. Naumov who was present here, there was Mr. Bubalo, who on TV Bor told citizens that the 30m-euro issue of credit was a matter of day, most weeks, no month, and already it was a month and instead of 30 million we got an ad in "Politica" where it was sold. I will only comment on what Mr. Jocic said when he replicated the DS representative about how in 2000 the largest number of interior service officers in Serbia changed in such a way that there were a dozen stamps on some papers, and I have one such paper in my SRS Municipal Committee in Bor. I got it from the head of the DOS headquarters in Bor and there's a DSS seal among those dozens of seals, and it just shows that this government has continuity with the previous government, and all the chances are that you came out of those previous governments just because you split the loot, and that you kept the continuity through G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7200	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Tomislav Nikolic. He gave up, you go ahead, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government was built past the will of voters, the will shown in the December 2003 elections, because it was obvious that the people wanted the SRS and the DSS to form the government of the Republic of Serbia and the voters of these two political parties to have nothing to do with the coalition, but that government was not wanted by someone from the West, one of the employers, and this is seen from the latest resolution on the functioning of democratic institutions in Serbia-Montenegro, which is rather better than by representatives of the SRS, populist, non-reformal, intolerant, etc. By the way, this resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has arisen in very strange circumstances, and I am prepared to accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia of participating in its creation, but that it was deceived in the final appearance of that resolution, and that there was no turning back after that. Namely, the resolution came after a visit from reporters, giving the current government in Serbia a chance to move forward with reforms and invite all of you from so-called. a democratic bloc to stop fighting and turn into a front that would be against the SRS. The DSS representative in Strasbourg, the head of the delegation, the parliamentary delegation of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, did not react even when with one 15 amendments MPs from Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Albania, so changed the resolution that it does not deserve to be called a state resolution, on the functioning of democratic institutions, but a resolution on the threat of Hungary in Vojvodina. Democratic Party of Serbia's representative, the head of the delegation, federal envoy Zoran Shami, voted with abstention. I asked him openly how it was possible for the Greeks sitting next to me to vote against the resolution without him being held back. He said if they hadn't touched the resolution, I would have voted yes, and this is how I was restrained. When the delegation returned here, he singled out, held a press conference and said he was pleased with the text of the adopted resolution. A real asset, and the government's president spoke of the funds, is a stable government in the state, with a strong foothold in the assembly. This government isn't. When my sons were little, I took them to the zoo and saw the guardian feed the animals. Today's session, this whole story about when the session will begin, what about the SPS MPs, whether the SPS deputies have finally accepted to participate in the work, is like that to me. You throw him a piece of meat, you throw him a lion, you throw him a piece of meat. Mr. Prime Minister, by throwing away pieces of meat, those who blackmail you, you won't get far. A government burdened with blackmail can't work, and then it's much better. It's easy to feed Peric to throw. Tell me what you told Ivica Dacic on the story that he's struggling to take power in Vranje, tell me what you told him at the MP's club? Did you tell him, "You don't care if the crow burns, you took a million? "Or maybe I'm wrong? But you're not my subject, don't throw it at me, let me get these from the DSS, if I'm wrong. The government cannot operate on blackmail and cannot at the SPO's threat that it will not vote unless Danica Draskovic is employed by the BIA and is in command of the BIA. It seems to me, Serbia will fall apart when it first sees it in the BIA, because it has created chaos wherever it appears, we just need it there. I don't know what kind of equilibrist you've been keeping them from entering any form of government so far. This equilibrist may be the one now applied to the strikers, but Danica Draskovic does not seem too pleased with it. It can't, Mr. Prime Minister, that the government you've brought into operation by insinuators, people who have different ideologies, people who behave differently from you, people who understand differently in what is state and national interest. We now have a fierce conflict with Serbia's president, who does not respect the National Assembly's decision and calls on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections. But, Mr. President, you won't say that this government is going to the polls. At least over two members, through the SPI and through the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre. I didn't see you so angry with the SPO that it called for elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Why do you waste your anger on the president of Serbia, he is not with you in the coalition? That's what we're gonna do, he's our target now, but clear your relations with the government, Mr. President. Is the government unique about going to elections in Kosovo and Metohija? If not, then you deceive us, then you are trying to do something that was unsuccessfully done by Slobodan Milosevic. In talks with the West, he promises everything and everything, and he comes to Belgrade and hints at Serbian citizens. You have to take a firm and firm stand, and I appreciate people who have a bad attitude, but defend it to the end, rather than those who have a proper and firm attitude, and have never stopped to defend it, to lose both elections and power because of it if necessary. How else do I interpret the fact that you don't draw the consequences of losing the election twice? Is that power that sweet? Does that have to be done at all costs? The presidential candidate of the government of the Republic of Serbia won about 13% of voters' votes, the whole government stood behind it, all the apparatus, all the state's finances, all the technical possibilities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. And you know very well that the Parliamentary Assembly resolution has warned you that you are no longer using state money to finance the media, which only speak well of you. This is where the state media is thought to be. If he won 12%, 13% of the vote, you made a cardinal mistake in the second round, supporting one of the opposition candidates. Where did you now have to criticise him, which he urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections, so he's your candidate. Let's wait for that debate, see how you will now vote when it is decided whether your candidate has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by turning away from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and from those to whom he directs advice, and from all institutions in Serbia, and from the Serbian Orthodox Church. Let's see what it looks like when the score comes to the agenda if the president of Serbia has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will all of you who supported it be elected now to get over it, which he no longer appreciates you. What were you for him? The ladder he came to power. Now he's got that ladder out of his way. Just so he doesn't forget Boris Tadic, it's not a dangerous height for a man to climb, it's a dangerous fall from that height. Why did the Government of the Republic of Serbia not react to the obvious fact proven on the survey board that was investigating the energy mafia? Why, as a citizen, did I have to file criminal charges against all the participants and the defendants in that big scam? Why is there no record of the polling committee sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? If the polling committee differed over the report, why not allow the National Assembly to decide what was actually happening or perhaps the reason for the robbery to continue. The budget rebalance is dedicated to energy. Most of the charges of bribery and corruption refer to energy. I warned you through the papers. You had import of Syrian oil, which is pure theft and robbery. Let's examine it, let's believe that you really want to run this country. Anyone who avoids being investigated, I don't believe he has any good intentions or fair intentions. You're doing a little rebuilding today, reconstructing the government. I don't even see any big reasons for that. I'm not going to interfere with that either, but I'd also like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Labus not to call the SRS. I wasn't talking about the extraordinary parliamentary elections, which would follow because the government would fall. I've got a lot of work to do. Now it's important for us to bring down the President of the Republic. It's very difficult, it's written not to be shot down. Even when he deserves what he deserves, it's written that he can't be shot down. I didn't say we would ask, that we would submit a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Serbian government. I just said that I wanted to help write a proposal for a new constitution, and that an extraordinary parliamentary election would certainly be held under that constitution, in line with the constitutional law that would set deadlines for it. Don't call us Mr. Labus, you know that you want this National Assembly meeting to last as long as possible, because if we have had a difficult task in one parliamentary election in political history to drive out small political parties leading Serbia, and you know with this pay phone, Batic and Svilanovic both, and Dusan Mihajlović, who knows how many were there. We have to do it one more time, Mr. Labus, to the parties leading the state, and they don't deserve it, I'm counting yours. So, another election cycle, to clean up a few more small political parties; either join the DSS or you won't be after the next election. Come on and we'll take it somehow, but don't just threaten us and don't just deal with us through your media, because we're the opposition. Remember, while you were in opposition, how you reacted every time the government pressured you. Not only did you react, but your mentors responded. We don't have mentors in the West. You can do anything to us, maybe no one will stand up to defend us. The people like to support the one they all attack. You don't understand. Speaking of how we are the eternal losers and that no one will join us in the coalition, you are only drawing us closer to the three-digit number of MPs. Don't let me just swear to you that it will be, because we're going to make it happen. You also thought we couldn't make 80, and we made it happen. We'll make it 100. I only have one regret, that you lifted this DS out of the dirt, from the mud, from the fungi, by raising the December DS, by giving it direct support. I don't understand, and I'll never understand the president of the DSS who puts his party down, and the DS raises. I don't see any rational reasons for that. They may be irrational, but that's what you should say. You radicalise Serbia not only can't, you can't stop it, because it's the most beautiful thing Serbia has. If you had read a book in Serbia's political history, you would have understood what the word radical means. Don't lie when you go to the West and say that radical means what it means in English. No more on state television, when terrorists perform an act, you say – followers of a radical Islamic leader killed 50 passengers on the bus. He's not radical, he's a terrorist leader, and they were doing something else. I am in conflict with DS and DSS, I am not in conflict with democracy. There's more democracy in us than in all of you together. I just have a little more courage than you do that when I'm in opposition, I fight for my attitudes so I can be personally threatened. You can't cross that line. You defend your attitudes much softer than radicals. And I understand that. In Serbia, the hardest thing to do right now is to be a radical. And Slobodan Milosevic, whom we supported whenever he did good and attacked when you supported him, had the greatest rival in the radicals. If he hadn't tried and managed to break us in 2000, you'd never have won the election in 2000. If his associates hadn't tried to steal those elections in 2000, you couldn't have done it on October 5th. I promise you, October 5th won't be forgotten. The defendants on October 5th, those who set the assembly on fire, those who made chaos in Belgrade on that day, will either be punished or you will no longer punish anyone, or you will no longer be able to punish people who steal an egg from the market to feed the child. You flew into all state institutions armed with long pipes. I'm not saying it was Labus, I'm not saying it was Kostunica, but the next president of some party from power or the opposition from DOS did. For the rest of us, I'm not saying he wasn't carrying a gun that night. We warned you that you wouldn't be able to last long, only you didn't realize it. I wish I could unite you with this speech again. It is my desire that you unite again, that Serbia understands, in fact, what kind of people it is. Once again, the SRS plan, which you can corrupt, is to adopt a constitution, to adopt a law on selecting MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, to hold a referendum on the constitution and elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, to hold elections for the new Serbian Parliament, and to elect the president of the Republic. We're going to make that plan happen and help anyone who wants to make that plan happen. When we bring down Boris Tadic, we gather forces and move to bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7202	Mr. Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7203	Since Mr. Toma Nikolic mentioned my name, let me tell you something about the team. Mr. Nikolic is obviously in need of a fight with everyone tonight. As for the SPS, Mr. Nikolic, we had a meeting in your rooms on Monday and agreed on correct co-operation. Mr. Nikolic, this is not correct cooperation. Is he your biggest political enemy and opponent of the SPS or DS, G17 and these others? What kind of relationship do you want with us? I understand why you're attacking me, but you even attacked Slobodan Milosevic, whose support you asked for in the presidential election, saying he stole the election. That is what those who sent him to The Hague say, it is not like you to say it. Of course, it's understandable that you say that because that night, when you announced that he had stolen and lost the election, Ceda Jovanovic was at your election headquarters, as he said. I guess since the SRS first offered the DSS coalition, there's a problem with unrequited love. As for us, I told Vojislav Kostunica and when Boris Tadic spoke the same way as Toma Nikolic, take them to the government, please, because we can no longer listen to them regret it. As for the money, Mr. Nikolic, you've helped this group called G 17 choose the Securities Committee. How many millions have you taken for it since it's said in Belgrade. Mr. Nikolic, it's not right to talk like that, because I can talk about it. I can say that you took millions because you provided a quorum to vote the Securities Commission, and the SPS and DS MPs pulled the cards. I can say that you took money from the DS when you participated in the presidential elections, and when the whole of Serbia boycotted those elections. I can also tell why the minority government fell in 1993. It didn't fall because of the principle, because you assume this is about millions, because you assume it works the same way as when you supported the minority government. As far as the SPS is concerned, we want good relations with the SRS and we have signed signatures to bring down Boris Tadic. What you said tonight doesn't contribute to good relations between our parties, because it's not true. We have publicly said that we support the Serbian government and that is why no one should pay us. We think it is better to support Vojislav Kostunica than Cedu, Zivkovic and others from the DS. That's what we said at the beginning of this term. As for the local elections, see who has the number of mayors in Serbia, so you will see that the SPS is second-placed by the number of elected mayors in Serbia. So much for the election. Choose tomorrow, right now, as far as we're concerned. You want the election, you want the election, but when it suits you, February, March, April, June next year. If you agree, we're ready for the election. (President: You're out of time. ) Correct relations between parties entail correctness. What Mr. Toma Nikolic said about the alleged payment, I can say that today some people are sorry, probably because they took the money, that the government of the Republic of Serbia fell. As far as we're concerned, we don't decide today and we don't care about the budget or the law, whether the government survives or falls. Mr. Dacic, you've been over the clock for two minutes. ) The government can fall at any time if it delivers someone to The Hague tribunal, if Danica Draskovic becomes the director of the Institute of Security or if in municipalities in Serbia, where we have won for mayors, we do not have a correct relationship with parties that we have supported at the republican level. So please... (President: Mr. Dacic, you've exceeded time for two and a half minutes. ....................................................................................................... to be correct with each other because we had meetings and agreed on good relations between parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7204	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7205	Since my conscience is completely calm, I can speak quietly. There's no reason to yell. Whoever's yelling, obviously there's no argument. That night was not Cedomir Jovanovic himself. They were Zoran Djindjic and Boris Tadic in our offices. And you know from the DSS, they were like your representatives. We were because we were the only ones who had the results that night. You've been doing so well in politics that you haven't had any results anywhere. The SPS and the Federal Election Commission had results, but what they published was not the results of the election. If I'm proud of something in my career, I'm proud of that night, when the SRS didn't participate in stealing the SRJ president's election. If I were to remind you what you were publishing that night, first you said that Slobodan Milosevic won the first round, then you said he was going to the second round, but that he was leading, and the truth is... SPS election headquarters, Gorica Gajević and others. What now, she's no longer with you. And Bija is good for you when he wins the Svilinca? The cancer's good? They're all socialists. Whoever wins, he's a socialist. You even said it was going to the second round, but it was being led by Milosevic. Why did you lie? I'm accusing these people of setting the assembly on fire, but you know the vindictor and the instigator as they punish themselves. Those crimes committed on October 5th wouldn't have been committed if you hadn't stolen the election. Every child had an excuse to go out on the street that night, because there was an election theft. Vojislav Kostunica has never officially become SRJ president, and that was the situation. Who published the official results? Where are they published? Who had the right to appeal to these published results? You gentlemen have activated the Federal Election Commission's documentation, and no one will ever be able to determine the real results of the election again. As for the money, was it you, Mr. Dacic, who brought money to the Serbian radicals? Did you bring money to pay us for supporting you? If so, let me know when it was and what amount it was. Since some have accused us... What are you nervous about? I'm here accused of taking money. You took it, and I'm accused of taking it. That's the difference. Let me get one thing straight. Remember when we made it possible to complete a session where it wasn't just the point of the Securities Commission and you know it well. The next session was very important to us. Perhaps it would never have been held that session where radicals flashed and entered the election campaign fully prepared. But you don't understand politics. Sometimes we'll be in the O.R. when you don't expect it at all because we have different goals. Why did we shorten the budget debate yesterday? You didn't feel it. I saw that you were in conflict with your mentors, so I thought as soon as we finished the debate, you might not be able to settle down. That was my reason. No radicals, for one session where they were in the O.R. and if they're not interested, to accuse you of what you've been doing since October 5, 2000, because I remember you here and voting for the Martian to be president of the Assembly, you forgot that. The SPS parliamentary group voted to make Dragan Marsican president of the NSRS. You voted in favour of the budget first adopted that year. You forget all that. You support the government of Vojislav Kostunica all the time. What interest does the SPS have to support the government of Kostunica. It is ideologically the same. Why would you support the G17 plus government? The SPO, you voted to make Vuk Draskovic foreign minister. Is that ideology? I will do everything I can, when I am Prime Minister, to bring Slobodan Milosevic back to Serbia. How he's going to piss you off, you're not aware of it yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7207	Thank the radicals for wanting Milosevic back, the dictator, the thief who stole the election and who they only needed to win Tom in the election. He thinks the SPS should serve to make radicals have an absolute majority. Correct relations with you. You want to swallow us, Democrats, to destroy us, but that's over. It's been a while. Therefore, the SPS has never had a deal with Zoran Djindjic, Cedomir Jovanovic or anyone else. Zoran Djindjic handed over Slobodan Milosevic, and I do not want to say from political correctness that Vojislav Seselj himself went to The Hague. As far as we're concerned, we'll do everything we can to ensure that no one is extradited to the UN tribunal and as long as we support this government. Mr. Nikolic, it's extremely incorrect and embarrassing how you treat the SPS. I was expecting today when Mr. Vukic said he was going to say - in the second round he was alone against everyone. Mr. Vukicu, for political correctness, should have been said that the SPS also supported Alexander Vukic against Nenad Bogdanovic, and will always support him against the Democrats. It's a correct political relationship. If you want to have a proper political relationship with us, then let's not talk like this. If you don't want to, then it's the end of our cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7208	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we haven't heard who was bringing that money and where was that money. Looks like he wasn't there. But it seems true to me, for what is true, I won't avoid saying and I don't want to lie, so the City Committee of the SPS on Thursday, pre-election silence, issued a statement of such content. I don't have any kind of need to lie or make it up. What's interesting is that in the previous period, SPS representatives do not come to our minds to get into whether or not they destroyed their party. That's their concern. Let them take care of it. Neither are their relations with Milosevic, what Milosevic thinks of the current SPS leadership. I think that's what Milosevic said a dozen times. I think what Milosevic was saying was clear, because Milosevic was also from The Hague, when he wanted to support someone, wanted to support the one who could defeat the entire DOS regime. That is why he also supported Vojislav Seselj, which is why there were indications that he could support some other SRS candidates, because he knew that these people wanted changes in Serbia, that they could bring them, not those with them from the transitional government, and beyond, in one way or another, they sat together. We had nothing to do with the DOS government. We're not on any board of directors, we didn't vote for any law, absolutely none. We didn't vote for the Martian or Djindjic's budget. They drove the party president to The Hague, and we fought them hard all the time. Now we have not voted for any law proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. And to tell us you, who have supported all their laws, all of them. Whenever it was necessary, every law you supported was just a question of what would happen, Vranje or Povorec, or some other or third place, where you can make a trade, which with Serbian citizens has nothing to do with it. As you well know, that what you did and how you used to work with the people of the SRS, you know that you've never done dishonestly and you know that none of us have ever been involved in any thieving crime. That's why it was sad what you said, Mr. Dacic, because the citizens of Serbia, anyway, more or less about Kostunica's government, everything else is much harder for you to forgive, and most of all they resent and forgive you most when you speak of us, who are bravely and resolutely opposed to the Dossian regime since its establishment. When you talk about election results, let's talk voices, Mr. Dacic. In the first round, when you didn't support anyone to your candidate, you got 3% in Belgrade and the SRS candidate 30%. In Novi Sad, the candidate of your party... (President: Mr. Wolf, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... 1.2% and SRS candidate 42%. These are your biggest cities. Unsolved, Mr. Dacic. That's how it's gonna be. As was in the presidential election, Toma Nikolic 33% and you 3%. That's the measure of Serbia, that's the measure of the citizens of Serbia, that's what the citizens of Serbia think of both yours and our policy. Be assured that after all this, after such an extension of bad authority, which does not take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, which has not brought a better life to Serbian citizens, people will want to change even more and no difference between you and those who directly govern will be seen. People want to change, and that's why they'll give trust to Serbian radicals, because nobody's ever bought them, and they've never been involved in any theft or crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7210	Mr. Dacicu, Mr. Angelkovic is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What member? Tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7211	Since he told a lie, I want to make it right in one sentence only. The SPS, Mr. Vukic, in Novi Sad, had no candidate for mayor at all, so the story of 1% is absolutely false. Also, the SPS list in Belgrade has received more than 5% and we do not want to talk about it. If that support was insignificant to you, why did you ask for it? We agreed to support each other's candidates together, and we're not running away from that deal. The SPS isn't here for the subject or the target. Don't hit the side themes unless you want us to avoid the right themes. As far as we're concerned, open and clear, and I haven't accused anyone here. I said that from what Mr. Nikolic said, I could say calm souls, and that's what I said. As far as we're concerned, you know who we are. Since we've been working with you, since Mr. Vukic said that we've cooperated fairly, we're convinced that you think that we're honest now and that this is about principled things, because you know what it's like to work with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7212	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is saying what most Serbian citizens think and say. All day long, I'd say, we've been in conflict with this pay phone with the regime and that part of the regime that represents DSS, and that part of the regime that represents most of the DSS. Without fear, without any concern in this kind of political duel, we enter, uncompromisingly, resolutely speaking what we resent to our political opponents, and we are ready to receive at any moment what our political opponents resent. Now that Mr. Dacic says, I'm not going to get into it that he's been announced and he's been on 10 shows for mayor of Novi Sad, so he couldn't even get his signatures together. I was talking about a list that raised 3%. It doesn't matter. The candidate had 3% in Belgrade and the list had 5%. Really minimal, especially compared to what the SRS had. However, I'm not going to say that any voter you've invited to vote for an SRS candidate is irrelevant or insignificant. Not by any chance. I can't think of anything to say to you, I'm sorry, it's all over town, it's the Securities Committee. And here you have a thousand commissions and a thousand agencies voting. Who knows how many they have made since the beginning and in all possible ways, and there has never been any negative assessment, we have always been, we are not quite the most satisfied, but it is much better than Zivkovic or Cedomir Jovanovic, as Mr Dacic says. Where are your Zivkovic and Cedomir Jovanovic? I cannot have Cedomir and Zivkovic forming neither the government nor the Assembly. They're not even in the Assembly, and now they're making some factions inside the DS. They should be elected within their party. Don't scare the citizens of those who can't be. They can be the ones you've provided to have most of them. Have they done anything good for Serbian citizens in the past eight months? No, they're not. Did they do something, but much less than what they needed. Citizens are not satisfied because they live much worse than they used to live before. Did they do anything to deal with corruption and crime from the previous period? No, they're not. Those most involved in corruption affairs are still either in power or very close to power, arrogantly, ossion and arrogantly behave, so why do you support them then. Why are you involved in this? We don't want any part of it. That's what we're different about. We won't even talk about it, because it doesn't make any sense. So we're going to go, not just from the assembly pay phone to explain, from place to place, from city to town, from village to village, and to tell citizens what our programme is, what changes we bring. Changes are most important to deal with corruption, with crime, to return honesty to the highest peaks of power and to have a clear economic and strategic concept of Serbia's development. That, Mr. Dacic, can't be with those you said were motor oil. You said in the campaign, G17 plus, so that's the code for motor oil. You now support motor oil instead of the Serbian government. We want to have normal government, not motor oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7214	Mr. Angelkovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7215	Of course, I felt called because Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic, we actually cooperated and negotiated. We know how this government worked. Others do not know how it worked in 1992 and 1993, on which grounds and how you supported the minority government and in 1992 and 1993. On these same grounds, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the government. You supported the government of the Socialist Party of Serbia so others wouldn't take over power that you didn't love. We didn't agree to take over the SPO with others, and we think the same thing today. We support this government because we know that any other variant of power will be the Democratic Party. Until she clears up, cleans up, until the corruption debates they've been making in the past three years, we will support this government and support all their laws and their proposals. That's the price we pay, and that price is called that we've got 23 mayors and presidents of municipalities, whether you like it or not, that we've got as many votes as we've won in the parliamentary elections, and you're wondering where your million votes are from the presidential elections to these local elections. That's your price and you have the right to discuss it. We worked together when we got along politically. Now we don't agree, we don't cooperate. Now this policy is more acceptable to us. The citizens will assess whether it is better to support this policy or to allow the Democratic Party, with this policy it has presented today, to return to power. We'll do everything we can to keep them out of power and when we don't like the way this government leads.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7216	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how to count Mr. Angelkovic's million votes, how they counted it. I don't know how they did it or what, but their bill's not good. I just have to tell them that when the elections come out twice or almost twice as much as the previous ones, you can't get an absolute number, but the percentage of votes in all elections just increases. Where we didn't, if you want to, and we never told you about it, we didn't have any council groups anywhere, almost nowhere. We are now the only political party represented in all municipalities and all congregations of cities throughout Serbia. In any place, where the majority population is members of national minorities or where the Serb majority population is, only one party is represented everywhere, and this is the Serbian Radical Party. If that's not enough, I don't know what I'd have to tell him afterwards. You know, as you counted those votes, only in Belgrade did I get more than you in all of Serbia, Mr. Angelkovic, and even when you multiply with two, you see how and how the elections went.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7218	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7219	Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for being unconventionally dressed. There was one impossible comparison, Mr. Nikolic. You said it. You took your sons to the zoo, so you watched someone feed the animals there, and then in one extremely incorrect context you linked it to the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. Mr. Nikolic, my mother didn't give birth to an animal. I was born by an honorable Serbian woman. I was born in Takova, where Milos raised his uprising. Sima Barajli was Miloš's banner, that's my direct ancestor. I won't let you or anyone else in the world call me an animal. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7220	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7221	With all due respect to your ancestors and your mother, you'd still have to prove to me that you're not an animal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7222	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7223	Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, of course, resent the coalition with Vojislav Kostunica, with the same man you wanted to be with in the coalition, with the same man you call after each election to join you in the coalition. As far as we're concerned, join the coalition, but I want to tell you this: I have the right to reply, because I am the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. You have offended the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs. The Serbian Radical Party in many municipalities is in the coalition, we also talk about Zemun. You resent us for fighting for our men in Vranje, Luciani, Raska, Fireman, where we have won. You have 20 elected mayors, and we have 22 and more. We're fighting for our people and we're gonna fight for it, but does that mean where you came into the coalition with us that you're paid for it, does that mean someone should insult you if you get into a coalition with us? I only remind once again, good relations in parliament and the matter of correctness do not depend on who is in favour of which political option. Don't worry about the Socialist Party of Serbia. You worry about your concern. As far as we're concerned, we've made those decisions publicly. We haven't made any decisions in secret, just like we'll never secretly talk. As Mr. Angelkovic said, you know well how support works to the minority government. On the same principles as you supported us, on the same principles we support Vojislav Kostunica, absolutely the same. You're convinced it's clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7224	Mr. Wolfie, this was a replica. Since this is going suddenly, but to honor and to end this correctly, Mr. Vukic will have the word, Mr. Baralic, and the end. You have offended Mr. Baralic personally. I'm talking about replicas. I'm using my right to Article 97 and I've got that grade. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7225	I must say immediately that you have no right to do what you intend to do because this gentleman has caused a replica and so much you must know, Mr. Mikhailovich, about the Rules of Procedure. As for the deal and who supports it, the Serbian Radical Party has worked, its policy has been clear, but before that it has not talked about those who will support that they are motor oil and that they are the biggest thieves in Serbia. That's the difference between us. The difference is that we did it for the citizens of Serbia, and I'm not sure what this is about right now, because I don't believe anyone who is a fan of the Socialist Party of Serbia thinks that someone from G17 plus or any other similar organisation has done something good for Serbia. When we offered a coalition to the Democratic Party of Serbia, we offered it only to them, not to all who they were dragging behind them. You chose Vuk Draskovic as Serbia-Montenegro foreign minister, you chose him, not someone else, the SPS. Nothing, very nice, let them boast in front of SPS voters that they deserve it. As for our concerns, we don't have them, we have the concerns of the citizens of Serbia, we want to take care of the citizens of Serbia and take responsibility for the government in Serbia. That is why we are fighting so hard and so much corruption, we are fighting for change in Serbia, and therefore we are convinced that these changes are necessary for the citizens of Serbia. And those words of yours 10 times today repeated, and shame upon you, and I don't know what, I have to tell you that this dictionary is a dictionary without arguments, it's a dictionary in which you have nothing factual to say, but come on, let's say something to make us poor and offended for something you don't like, which is spoken from this pay phone. I just remind you, if you were taking care not only of your committees, but of the citizens of Serbia, you wouldn't vote for budget rebalance today, not for new ministers, for those who get one percent, whose people showed that they won't, not to vote for those and support the government of those ministers who received one percent of the votes in the elections. People have shown that they will not and will not ask everyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to respect the people's will above all, to respect the will of Serbian citizens and if they respect the will of Serbian citizens, and the will of Serbian citizens is to deal with those who are corrupt, with those who are criminal, then we will have a chance to move forward, to start changes in Serbia. So don't worry about the SRS, we're fine, thanks for asking, we win, and we'll win the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7226	The word is Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is a replica for the presentation of MP Tomo Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7227	Mr. Vice President, I didn't challenge the replica, I answered last time in the Rules of Procedure, and now I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and the provision is Article 100, so it wasn't a replica. As far as I can tell, that's my business. Please, if someone or not an animal, it is determined by birth. There's no argument, no reason for the temperature you've raised yourself and the soup you've cooked yourself, you're asking for another one to fry for you here tonight, but if it's all right, we'll fix it, there's no problem. I pray that in the day, when possible, the National Assembly declares whether the provisions of Article 100 have been violated, the dignity of the National Assembly. I didn't expect it, and I didn't expect anyone to say it, I didn't expect anyone to be a MP, who's the head of the parliamentary club, who's known as the pro-European candidate for the President of the Republic, to be able to speak from the Assembly's pay phone to say he's an animal. It's illegal, it's incorrect, it doesn't say anything about Rajk Baralic, it's about whoever said it. I advocate that parliament become a place of dignity. If we fail, we have failed in Serbia. So I ask all fellow Members of the People's Parliament, nothing is worth being offended by each other, nothing is worth it that in the way that some of us do it, we demean people, we call them ugly names. And speaking of results, where I was head of the SRS election headquarters is twice behind me, and that's Cachak, it's Moravia County and you make sure everyone has a story and a game. The one where I was a goalie, she filled the net, among other things, and radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7228	I have to give Mr. Nikolic a word now, because you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although I find this pathetic expression of acting rather than honesty, I apologize for the metaphor I've said. I didn't mean to compare anyone here, but I don't know what's ugly if a man is an alligator or a lion. I think a lot of people would like to be interpreted that way. So, I apologize to all those who feel offended by my words, but please don't act offensive because it's completely transparent tonight. I don't want to use metaphors anymore, or at least the one I want to direct, I'm going to ask first if he understood what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7230	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Anyone else want a word? The word has the prime minister, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, as a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7231	Dear MPs, after so many spoken words, we return to the subject. The theme is the election of three ministers in the Serbian government, the minister of economy, the minister of economic relations with abroad and the minister of education and sports. At the same time, while respecting the Assembly, respecting the public in Serbia, I will only say a few words at the end. I'm going to come from something that's most general, which is most often mentioned in today's discussion. I'm not going to be dealing with any details, twists, dyspressions, which were so many. The most common question is whether in the past few months there has been a better life in Serbia, whether there is a economic recovery? I said, a few months ago, we have years behind us, a few years before 2000, and a number of years before 2000, and I'm only talking about one period shorter than eight months. In these slightly less than eight months, I can say that in Serbia there is still a little better living, a little safer living, with less fear and a little less corruption than before. To achieve this, it was necessary to pass some laws that had not previously been passed and strengthened by institutions, instead of strengthening naked unlimited power. Of course, another question has been raised in this debate, whether we are in favour, and only declaratively, to enter Europe, and we forget how the country lives. I'll tell you both. Both are mutually and closely connected. We heard about government ministers who were in power until December last year, an entire programme that should be done. Of course, there's only one question, why it hasn't been done in the past few years. The real question is whether it's eight months longer than three years, how many times you've had. It just seemed amazing that someone from the previous DOS government could even talk about corruption. You know, DOS has introduced corruption into the Assembly. DOS produced something that was never there, which is to be stolen in the congregation. There have been objections when it comes to the state of justice, but I'll tell you how many good laws guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary in the meantime have been passed. What have these previous laws not been passed? And in all other areas, when we entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we found the first desolation. One resistor, another resistor, has no system law. We mentioned the Energy Act, we mentioned these strong laws on justice. I also mention the state administration reform. A strategy for reforming the state administration has been adopted. A whole series of laws will be passed. There was no law. How do you think you change things in Serbia, reform Serbia, as you thought without all these laws. But instead, we've heard an countless times spoken one word: it used to resound the word Communism, the word socialism, self-government, it now resonates with the word modernization. I ask the question, what does that word even mean, if it means anything? Is any of you capable of defining the true meaning of that word? What's modernization? How that hollow sounds or when it sounds more concrete, then you bring it down to the need to make a water line and sewer. For God's sake, who in today's world isn't looking for it. What are you guys up to today? I don't know how you came to talk about the need for full co-operation with The Hague and the lack of co-operation. Let's just factor out that sentence. If she's not here, if you're transferring her to this power, I'll come to how we imagine and how we see co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then I'm asking a question, actually, what haven't you done in recent years, why didn't you finish that story? Of course, when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, when it comes to an international obligation, let me be clear at once. It's being achieved gradually, and it can't happen right now, and you're best at showing that it's not possible to do it overnight, because you didn't do it. On the other hand, and there's a difference between you and us, that co-operation can be achieved in different ways. You chose one way. That way we'll never choose, we'll never stop behind him. You chose the way he went to The Hague, in which the Banovic brothers, whom Sljivancanin was arrested, chose the way SFOR arrested in Bosnia and Herzegovina, killing one man in Prijedor in eastern Bosnia. You chose the way SFOR applied when he arrested Jeremy Starovllah and his son. It's naked violence, it's for you the way you co-operate with The Hague. It's not just how he cooperates. Look at the neighboring countries. He can do it differently, if he has to. Don't put a man in the mouth who at some point, I'm talking about Colonel Beara, made a decision that the country couldn't suffer because of him and went to The Hague. No, you'd force him, you'd force him into noises. Finally, co-operation with The Hague can be achieved in front of our courts. These messages come from all over the world, come from The Hague itself, we have a Special Court of War Crimes, and why he wouldn't try it on these things. Let's just take one example, Kosovo. Let's see what a process related to Kosovo will look like before our court in relation to The Hague court. No institution is perfect. Therefore, let us give this court the opportunity to show what was actually happening in Kosovo and Metohija. It really takes special courage, and something else comes up, the drawbacks and the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. I'll tell you, look at the election, look at the conditions in which these elections are held. I admit, we tried to do something over the elections a few years ago, and I called on Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. It's been a few years, nothing has changed except what happened on March 17th. Today, the conditions for their election are gone. To repeat those words that may be antique, but they are more than clear, more than open, they come from the heart, which are the words of the Serbian Orthodox Church -- slavery does not go to elections. You'd like people who conduct in transporters to the election, completely insecure, to send to the election. Finally, didn't we vote one plan in this assembly through the will of all MPs, including DS MPs? It seems that the nearer you are, the more expensive plan of Unmik, than the plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, behind which you stood, you voted then. Explain why you're thinking something else today. We're not exclusively any way. We say -- come on, there's a UNMIK plan, there's a Serbian government plan, let's find a medium solution, there's a combination of their local self-government, but we're looking for more for Serbs in Kosovo, we're looking for self-government, we're looking for territorial autonomy. You can talk about all that. You simply played something that is the will of the people, which is expressed in this congregation. This is the most measured place to measure, to express the will of the people, you have chosen the will of the people. Then you set out to defeat those who respect the will of the people, that they were guilty. It would never have occurred to me to raise this issue, because we've had enough of our Serbian communities and debates, if you hadn't raised the issue. Those who respect the congregation, those who respect the will of the people, and not you who trampled it, turned out to be guilty. The point is quite clear. One more thing, since there was a lot of words about what this government is and what kind of foothold it is and what kind of support it has. You know, and I tell that to the MPs of the SRS, if we had a two-party system, then we could talk about who's a loser, who's a winner in this election. This is a parliamentary system, we have more political parties here and those parties that provide the majority in the Assembly simply have it as long as they have it. We will respect the will of something that is the congregation's majority at this point. One more thing, the election was mentioned. I'll remind you that even before the government is educated, given the relationship of strength and the need to do things together, I said that the government agrees to limit its mandate, it's eight months, but then I said six months, okay, let's bring the constitution, and then we'll go to new elections. Therefore, a party that I am headed to does not run away from these choices, as the government does not run away from these elections. Finally, something I'm wearing really is a bitter impression of today's debate. Faced with these plights and hardships standing before us, and relations in the state community, both Kosovo and Metohija, and the pressures that come from outside, and undoubtedly difficult, inherited by the difficult social and economic situation in the country, if we do not achieve a minimum of unity at least in one of these things, then we will really not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7232	I'm finishing the search. According to Article 187(1), I hereby designate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 19 October 2004 as the day for voting on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll approach the vote at 22.40 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-19-0.u7233	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue to establish the quorum. Using the electronic voting system, we have confirmed that more than 126 MPs are present in the hall. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the Prime Minister's proposal for the election of members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 187(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal to elect members of the government, decides in general by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to hold the vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion to vote on the election of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia in public, using an electronic voting system. For 128, against 12, 59 of the 199 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal to elect members of the Serbian government, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Prime Minister's proposal to elect members of the Serbian government, using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision to elect government members, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I am voting on the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. For 129, versus 73, of 202 MPs. Since 129 MPs voted in favour of the Prime Minister's proposal for the election of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia as a whole and has chosen as new members of the government: Dr Predrag Bubal, Minister of Industry; Dr Slobodan Vukanovic for Minister of Education and Sport and Dr Milan Parivodic as Minister for Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. Allow me to congratulate on your and my behalf the elected members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the elected members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. Please stand up. Please repeat after me: "I swear that in my work I will uphold the Constitution and the law and that I will perform the duties of a member of the Government with responsibility and security." I ask the elected members of the government to sign and hand over those oaths and once again my congratulations. I thank the MPs, I thank the ministers, the President and the Deputy Prime Minister. [[Applause]] The assembly will continue its work on Thursday (October 21st 2004) at 10.00 p.m. on the third agenda of the second session.
