ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2714	I wanted to advertise a violation of the article. 142 and 143. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly. According to Article 143, the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly session, amendments submitted under the draft law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. We heard from you that there was a meeting of the Finance Committee, which is one of the committees responsible for the law on the national corporation to provide guarantees for loans for residential construction, however, under Article 52. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, is also the competent committee to declare this law. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has so far not sat down and has not considered amendments submitted by MPs, and therefore you cannot open a debate in detail on the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2715	Thank you. The service therefore informs that it is not the committee responsible, as parent, development and economic relations with abroad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2716	I'd like to point out to you the violation of that member, because it doesn't say "the parent board," it says "the board of directors". Article 52 states that the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs is considering plans and development programmes; economic development and a credit and monetary and banking system. As far as I know, this is about the guarantees the Serbian Government is supposed to give to the banks and certainly this committee is one of the committees responsible. It doesn't say "matrix" anywhere, and it doesn't say that only one committee under one law is in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2717	Mr Arsic, please address the chairman of the Committee who obviously did not share your opinion and did not consider his committee competent and has not scheduled an amendment review. I'm sorry, as you know, when the board doesn't sit down and deliver a report here, you don't have a report, and by Article 159, I've informed you that the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have submitted their reports, because they've conducted an amendment search. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2718	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, Mr President, I think the chairman of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has scheduled for today's session of the Committee, starting at 14.00 p.m., to consider the amendments tabled by the MPs on this bill. Also scheduled was a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad for last Friday, starting at 14.00 p.m., however, it was not maintained due to the lack of quorum. I'm going to ask the Management Board to declare that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the amendment, during the debate on the principle of the bill, Mr. Minister explained that it was about encouraging housing loans on the basis of a guarantee the Government of the Republic of Serbia would give to banks, again on the basis of a mortgage that banks would take from Serbian citizens; and, apparently, it does not say anything in the law, the subject of the loan is also the subject of the mortgage, and the minister explains that the issue will be resolved on some particular form. I asked my amendment that the mortgage be taken by a national corporation, not by a bank, because the national corporation is already giving the bank a guarantee of a possible loss during the lending process. Apparently, this law will affect the reduction of interest, and even the single-digit rate of interest on an annual basis is promised. Again, the question arises who has the right to make certain promises on behalf of the banks that are the borrower. In fact, we have been informed whether it will be that 9% as the minister promises, at one fixed rate of credit, which will be charged, regardless of whether 90% of the debt is paid back or only 10, which is considered to be a participation, or whether it will be at a calculated rate of interest for as much as the borrower owes to the bank, or to another institution that deals with it. In one thing, the promoter made quite a mistake -- that banks, by chance, have free capital to place on loans that are 20 years old, wouldn't need to be encouraged by one of these laws. The fact is that banks have limited resources that they have and are more paid to give short-term loans from six months to two years, because that makes them earn more credit. There is no obligation in this law for any bank to accept that a citizen or a legal person credits for 20 years. The promoter forgot that the surplus funds that banks can place on 20-year-old loans, which may be the subject of residential construction, can only be achieved if the savings of citizens in banks are increased. This is now impossible because no important business entity that is not a public enterprise or where it is not owned by a state currently does not work. Thanks to the policy that the government is implementing, which has continuity with the previous government, because the members of the government who are now running the financial sector have also run the financial sector in the previous government. Only one shorter period was not in the same government, leading to a drop in productivity, a decrease in production, and thus to a decline in living standards and the layoff of most workers. As long as you don't solve it, any law like this can be just a kind of pre-election promise and it will never come to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2719	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović and Bojan Kekić. The Prime Minister and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2720	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in front of the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 9(2) of the proposed law on a housing credit insurance corporation. I would ask you, Mr. President, to calm this majority of DOS, because this really doesn't make any sense. If you can't hear me, you can't hear me because the ruling majority in this congregation makes it impossible to work in a normal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2721	It's mine to intervene. Please don't throw it away. It is mine to intervene and do so every time, and it applies to all MPs, because I do not share messengers in this way, but to those who interfere with work and who do not interfere. Unfortunately, during the discussion of the previous speaker, most MPs spoke to each other. Once again, please, I have given the signal several times, allow the speaker to speak. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2722	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't count me in three minutes for this amendment these past minutes and 15 seconds. Article 9 defines the maximum amount of liabilities that the corporation can make to itself in relation to the total capital. The question is, why is it defined exactly 16 times more? There is certainly no economic justification for that, because we have heard from the minister himself that the rate of repayment of credit among our citizens, who are extremely disciplined in this matter, is even 97%. So if we apply economic criteria, this relationship could be 30 times larger. Secondly, if it is known that a corporation does not assume a commitment to a complete loan, it is only a difference between a loan and a mortgage sale, that obligation certainly cannot fail so much. He says -- the business bank, as a loan security instrument, takes a mortgage on the assets that are the subject of the loan, and that's 1:1 a.m. In what case is this relationship going to be 1:1? I guarantee you that in 99.99% of the cases, it won't be like that. Here's why. First of all, business banks that lend credit to themselves estimate how much the immovableity on which you put a mortgage is worth. So, if your immovableity is worth e.g. 50,000 euros, they will estimate the immovableity at 40,000. So when it comes to selling secured immovableity, there will never be any damage to this commission bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2723	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2724	Of course, this amendment cannot be fully corrected by the draft law which is pointless, but the purpose of this amendment is to limit the corporation, which is not defined here whether it is a public enterprise, whether it is a fund, whether it is a stock company, would rather be said to be an association. Item 3 in Article 9. The bill stipulates that the corporate business policy depends on the nominal amount of the obligation to be to the individual business bank. If that's what the promoter meant to arrange in a way to leave the corporate's free will, then he shouldn't have put this into law at all, because that means that whoever enters into some business relationship is self-forming his will. With this amendment, we want to limit this to 20% of the nominal amount of capital to the business bank, and 3% to the individual user. So we want to put some limits where we can do and control whether the law is applied in a way and for the purpose of achieving the goal that the Proposer wanted to inhale this law. Again, we are aware that even this amendment cannot fix something that is fundamentally wrong, and it is wrong that perhaps this proposal in 1945 could produce some results in Canada, but in 2004, this law in Serbia cannot produce any result because there are structural disturbances on our market and in our economy. There are no long-term funds, no long-term capital of business banks and those coming from abroad provide some long-term funds, but you yourself know that these are expensive funds. The money is like water, where a cavity appears, in principle of connected courts, goes where there's a huge profit, where there's a big profit, there's a capital moving there. This law provides banks. The state through that corporation is completely unnecessary in its obligation to guarantee profits to business banks. At the very least, it is not moral from the viewpoint of the National Assembly, regardless of the stories that someone will be helped, to enable construction, etc. To correct one great injustice heard here on Friday. Nowhere in this bill is the amount of monthly repayments for these loans, nor in the provisions of the law, nor in the reasoning. It's just texting about goals, desires and what the government's intention is. This is practically just a law on good intentions, a law that doesn't have a foothold in the Constitution, because nobody knows if this corporation is a public enterprise, whether it's a stock company, whether it's a limited liability society, what it is. The fund obviously isn't. This law could also have a second name, and that should be - a proposal for a law on the security of claims based on housing loans. Because if you go with the term "security," then know, the next law that's on the agenda is prescribed in several members and a ban on the use of the word "security". This does not provide loans, but provides claims, secures the profits of those banks that will take the risk of long-term loans to residential construction. That should be made clear. I am surprised that the legislator did not legally agree with the name and some of the provisions of this law, and he had the opportunity to deliver amendments during this period and remove these systemic problems of this law. Under this law, corporations won't even be registered in a trade court. You can't even see the code of action here. For a normal company, this kind of application would come back and no one would ever sign it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2725	The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2726	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think this amendment by my colleague Zoran Krasic should be accepted, especially because in the procedure we had a similar law that regulated similar matter, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, giving guarantees, and it was precisely with this text that was proposed in the amendment that your bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia passed. I have discussed on the Committee a proposal for this amendment, and I think that in some reckless statements, the rights of the legislator of the law are slowly beginning to be disclosed, because in paragraph 3 which is the subject of this amendment is said - the total nominal amount of corporate obligations arising from the performance of the corporation's activities under Article 1(1) of the Statute towards the individual business bank and the individual legal person... This is where there's always talk about how you're going to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with your loans. However, I see that here, in essence, a guarantee is given to banks and legal persons hired as a contractor, that with money from the bank and a guarantee issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making money on the unresolved residential issue of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2727	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2728	Mr. Chairman, I can see that there is either insufficient reading of text or misunderstanding here. It is clear that the law cannot prescribe how much each individual war will be. That depends on the apartment square, the payment deadline, interest rates. Perhaps most MPs understand why it cannot be in law and cannot be subject to a sublegal act, but individual contracts that citizens will conclude with the state. If the text is carefully read, and those who went out earlier did not clearly read it carefully, it is clear who is the owner of this institution. The amendment that has been accepted says it can also be established as a stock company. So, I ask the Members to carefully consider the amendments that the Committee adopts, as well as the basic text of the law. Also, as far as guarantees to legal persons are concerned, if there is uncertainty, it is about guarantees that the corporation will give to construction companies, because the basic activity of the corporation is to provide loans to citizens, housing loans, but after that, giving guarantees to construction firms so that they can build apartments. It's those legal faces. It's just an explanation of what you gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2729	Mr. Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2730	Mr. Minister, we have negative experience on the clear definition of the government, including you, when it comes to state participation, state capital in some institutions or institutions that should, by definition, have a dominant involvement in state capital for two reasons. First, because the state is setting them up by its means, so that's an economic reason. Another reason, which we can find in parallel law or in countries we want to compare with, is that in these countries, state capital is in the majority of these institutions. I'm telling you this because you haven't properly protected this state capital when it comes to the National Savings Bank. Hence, and the fear of the MPs and hence, and these amendments that speak about the protection of the state capital, and therefore, at least of you, we expect, given this experience from the National Savings Bank, that somehow superficially, based on your statement or promise, they can protect the basic state interests in relation to the budget which is the main investor in the national housing insurance corporation. So, based on the experiences we have, and this is about a big affair and a huge loss of state money, we MPs of the SRS don't believe your word and that's why we're asking you for a stronger foothold in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2731	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2732	Gentlemen, as you know, the competent institution for the protection of state interests is the Ministry of Finance. While I was governor of the National Bank of Serbia, we were only doing control of the institutions. The protection of state interest in all institutions is carried out exclusively by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, I wasn't a member of that government. The National Bank of Serbia does not manage state capital in institutions, but only oversees the work of financial institutions. As for the fabricated affair, you can see for yourself that none of it has anything to do with it. I must draw attention to the fact that this law, the citizens, could get the wrong impression, is not meant for those who have already provided themselves with housing, such as most MPs of the SRS, but those who do not have those apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2733	Replica, representative of the Serbian Radical Party at this point, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2734	I don't want to go down to your level and talk about apartments. I hear you live in New Belgrade, you said it yourself; it's a nice neighborhood in Belgrade, and I wish you every happiness in that area. There are more important questions here on the scene. This easy, formal acceptance of the robbery of state capital against the National Savings Bank was, is and will be the subject of our concern and our intention to bring this thing to light. It doesn't really matter to you personally, of course, if those who shed light on this case don't come to your name in that chain from the founding of the National Savings Bank to the so-called. capitalization, so all the moments when the National Savings Bank went into private hands. If your name is found in that chain, beware. I believe they'll find each other and, many say, there's evidence. There's something else on the agenda here. Do you, as finance minister after this affair, enjoy the confidence of the majority in the Assembly, and I believe that you do not enjoy, whether for purely formal reasons, the survival of a coalition of MPs of other parties, who do not belong to the Serb Radical Party, will give a vote for this law; therefore, do you enjoy trust after this affair that, as with this law, you are investing state money, 10m euros or perhaps more (a few amendments have been submitted to this topic) the founding role for the establishment of an important institution, with the possibility that if you do not give God any longer you will remain in power in one, second or third way (as has been said when the National Savings Office was on the agenda) you will also privatise a national corporation for the insurance of residential loans. Yes or no? So, these stories of yours about apartments, about cars, I'm, like, driving a car of the "vectra", maybe I'll drive a worse or better, that no one cares anymore, whether you live in a two-bedroom or three-bedroom apartment. Someone lives in a two bedroom, someone in a four-room room, those are stories that are not only demagogue but that with you, and you're the finance minister, they shouldn't have anything to do with it. With you, it should have something to do with this story that will allow the citizens of Serbia to live better, and the citizens of Serbia do not trust you, in your promises to live better, because they have very bad experiences with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2735	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's no replica on the replica. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Miss Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address you as if Minister Dinkic is not here, and he is, by chance, for the simple reason that with his arduousness and his hatred that he shows above all toward the SRS parliamentary group, which is the most valuable and constructive parliamentary group in this assembly, shows the fundamental ignorance of democracy and the work of the National Assembly. The fact that you have come, Mr Dinkic, so in passing before us, the MPs of the people do not give you the right to be rude and, above all, demeaning for this high congregation home, you are addressing the MPs of the people. Well, when you've already arrived, and there's a parliamentary group, or a coalition group of MPs who proposed this bill, you should have basic things in mind when you're writing one member of the law, especially if he has multiple views; it's a contradiction between the 2nd and 4th positions of Article 9 of the proposed law, on which I tabled an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It is impossible for the law in the position of the 2nd member to oblige the corporation to establish the maximum amount of funds it can be, which stands at 2 to 16 times the amount of the corporate capital, and that initial capital is mentioned at 10m euros. The question arises, firstly, from where those 10m euros came from, and then -- how is it possible that attitude 4. predicts that, exceptionally, according to the government's approval, that amount can be higher. You and this occasion, as you did 20 days ago, when a law on the assistance of Hague indictees was passed by the MPs, you show your kind of legal violence as finance minister, namely the exponent of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. The government can't be above the law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the most legislative body, prescribes laws that all must respect. By means of your political court, Slobodan Vučetic, in the case of a law on the assistance of Hague indictees for 24 hours, you have tried to act on some temporary measure of suspension of that law and what you are entering into Article 9 of this law again shows a fundamental ignorance of what should be done by an executive, what legislative, and what judicial authority. So much for your bill and the way you write it. Instead of courting at least the law and adapting it to what the National Assembly can do, that is, by binding all other bodies in law enforcement, you, Mr Dinkic, are engaged in the presidential campaign and in spreading the truths and, mildly speaking, lies and fiction when you speak first of all about the presidential candidate and, I am confident, the winner in Mr Tomislav Nikolic's presidential election. You're supposed to be dealing with the fact that you've proposed a law that won't do any good to those who have hundreds of thousands who don't have an apartment. When you were so "smart", Mr. Dinkic, to explain that the favourable interest in business banks of 9%, why you did not offer your best friends, the best friends of Hamovic and Lazarevic to buy electricity with 9% interest, but to offer citizens apartments with 9% interest, which should pay two or three apartments after 20 or 30 years of payment. How is it possible that the Government of which you are the Minister, the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, is watching all of this very quietly, given that the Committee of Auditors has been working on the identification of malversions, i.e. the theft of electricity by individual persons, to you very close, and to the EFTA companies, and that, after all this, the EFT is selling our electricity at prices, of course, which brings them the basnoslovniks and the wealth. Of course, all of this is possible, given that the one who elected you as Minister of Finance did not listen to the voice of reason sent by the MPs of the SRS, telling him that you did not belong in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but elsewhere - that you were accounting for everything you did and when you were governor of the National Bank and before you became one, and also after, when you served as vice president and your encrypted political organization G17 plus. Speaking of this organization, and you're the vice president of this organization who calls himself a political party - G 17 plus, yesterday are your activists, so on. The G17 Plus Youth Network, in the middle of Belgrade, shared these leaflets in the centre of the Prince Michael. (President: Ms. Jovanovic, time is long gone, 37 seconds ago. Here you go. Finish it. ) Listen, Mr. Markovic, you are the exponent of this political party. The flyer says, "Serbia, you have a choice, we know what we want." You don't know anything. With you, we can only go further and in the sun. As for what it says on this page, it says, "Stop Fascism in Serbia", and there is a picture of the greatest Serbian hero Dr Vojislav Seselj. I must tell you, gentlemen of the G17, that you can see who the fascists are, and that's you. What you're doing needs to serve you honor and the citizens will know that you evaluate your fascist methods.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2737	I warn you, it's not polite to propagate fascism from a pay phone. I'm asking all of the following speakers, I'm really going to have to do this much time to turn off the pay phone, especially when I warn twice, and I think we're tolerance enough. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, Minister of Finance Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2738	I'm really fascinated by the culture of speech of our beautiful pay phone, the most intelligent, the cultural, the tolerance, everything that fits the stick. But you should read the Budget Law carefully and then see, as well as other MPs who have had that remark, that 10m euros is foreseen for the initial capital of this institution for the insurance of residential loans. So you keep asking why 10m euros. It is provided for in the budget reserve, and in the light of the Budget Law, it says that the amount will be used to ensure credit for apartments, among other things. On the other hand, we are against this amendment, for the reason it is necessary that, in cases of unforeseen disturbances on the financial market, there is a possibility that the Government may increase the ratio of secured loans and capital, in order to avoid some unforeseen fractures. Once again, I have nothing against what radicals will do, it is a democratic right, to vote against an institution that allows Serbian citizens to get housing loans. Now there's no housing loans. Without this institution, there won't be any. Your leaders got apartments, Mr. Nikolic received from the state flat of 160 square meters in 1999. Aleksandar Vucic also received an apartment from the state, Gordana Pop-Lazic of the Zemun Municipality 1000 square meters, but do not disable and prevent ordinary citizens of Serbia from receiving housing loans. Your leaders have huge apartments, which they got while they were in the previous government, and the citizens have forgotten, but don't deny a large number of today's tenants of Serbia, or deny it, but clearly tell them - we won't have housing loans because our leaders have apartments free of charge from the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2739	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Just tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2740	Mrs. Krstic, article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia equally obliges us MPs and ministers who are invited to come and participate in the work of this session. Mr. Dinkic, this is not a recording for "Never Sorry" on Pink TV, this is a serious institution, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and act in line with what the minister is supposed to say from this pay phone, not as if you are on the shoot of a popular series of citizens with enthusiasm, especially when you are an actor, they accept. As for the difference between you, Mr Dinkic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, an honorable Serb, future president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, one young lawyer, one wonderful politician, fellow and Serb, also Mrs Pop-Lazic, mother of three beautiful daughters, vice president of the Assembly and fighter for national interests, justice and democracy, the difference between them and you is that they received those apartments by law, and you stole and you will continue to steal and to rob... (President: Please keep an eye on the terminology you use. )......................................................................................................... Because you don't know anything else, that's what you're very special about and don't talk to us about any honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2741	Replica, just tell me on what basis, are you mentioned? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2742	Mr. Minister, as a lifelong assistant at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, apparently did not acquire the elemental knowledge of democracy, because it did not acquire the elemental knowledge of constitutional law, which he studied at the university, even high school students know that the difference between parliament and government is enormous. The government accounts for parliament. Parliament only accounts for the citizens of Serbia. We will also, in the next election, as we have in this previous election, account for the citizens of Serbia and, as you can see, every day our popularity is growing, which means that we have earned this trust, unlike you. You, Mr. Minister, will be here on the wallpaper very soon and you will have to account for this House. Therefore, remember in the future when you enter this high house, we have invited you, address the MPs with due respect. Your colleagues who support you in this House can come out for this pay phone and face views with the MPs of the SRS, may also insult us and we can go out and answer, but it is not appropriate for you. You, as a representative of the executive government, must be here with special respect to treat every MP. Please, the language of hate that you're trying to spread the MPs of the SRS won't accept. So once again I warn you about the elemental culture, because we can decide not to invite you to this high home, we can decide not to be a minister anymore, and now that you're a minister doesn't amnest you out of responsibility for everything you've done while you've been Minister, as well as what you're doing while you're Minister. Once and for all, you'll be making sure that the accounts are settled to the competent state authorities, and we're ready at any moment, because the government is in your hands, start the disputes, you have courts -- let them do their job, you have the police -- let them do their job. Whoever of us broke any provision of the law, we're ready to carry the consequences, but you're just talking, because there's nothing from breaking the law, and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2743	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the National Assembly should accept this amendment, because it is already in Article 9(2). The bill provides for how and at what amount corporations can guarantee banks. The explanation of the minister is that if there is a disturbance in the paper market, it is necessary that the government intervenes, not to intervene the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; then you, Mr. Minister, at least while you perform that function, if you question the assumption that this can happen to you, since you belong to one expert group, you should resign, and in particular I draw attention to you when you read the laws, because you have just now accused me and my colleague Zoran Krasic of not reading the laws. I'd like to remind you that he's a member of Section 3. The bill, you didn't know it, but I had to read it to you on the Finance Committee and there's a stenogram about it, there are fellow MPs from my parliamentary group, from a parliamentary group that supports you. Don't accuse the MPs of not knowing what they're talking about, and how they know the laws well... (President: Please return to the amendment. )......................................................................................................... and how well they are prepared, and how well and professionally they discuss these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2745	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2746	Apparently, the SRS parliamentary group needs to read the bill that probably came out of the ministry, at least as an initiative. You see, for the sake of the public, in order to have real insight into how it is read, Article 9, point 2 reads: "The total nominal amount of corporate liabilities resulting from the performance of the corporate activity of the 1st Article can be up to 16 times the corporate capital amount". If the corporate capital is secured in the budget of 10m euros, simple mathematics says the corporation can not secure, but provide 16 times more claims, it means, in the dinar equivalent of 160m euros. Now we're going to position 4 where Miss Jovanovic has given the amendment and asked to delete that item 4. Item 4 reads, "The Government of the Republic of Serbia", meaning, the executive authority, "at the reasoned request of the corporation... "The corporation, then, submits a written request. The corporation, as it's been given here, can only be a stock company in perspective. According to the founding act, it's nothing, it's not a fund, it's not a company of capital, it's something imaginary. So, this is an imaginary request to the Government, and it requires the Government to agree to increase the amount beyond the amount of Article 2 and, of course, further follows that it can last for a certain period of time. What does that mean? On the basis of an ordinary requirement, the Government would agree that the underlying capital of 10 million, so that's the basis for some obligations, goes not with a 16 coefficient, but 30, 40, 50, unlimited, and if so, you don't need either item 2 or item 4. If you wanted so much authority to give the government of the Republic of Serbia, then you didn't need this law at all. One law was needed, a corporation formed, the goals are you and you, the conditions and the way the government regulates, another member – the law enters on the eighth day of publication, but so cannot be written laws, because then the law becomes its opposite, it is not norm, it is not a rule of conduct, it does not contain proper restrictions. Of course, we estimate, we know what you need one of these formulations for. In your terminology, as you wish to say, to create predispositions, some greater potential, to provide as much as possible, not to ensure, but to provide. You're using the wrong terms. Whoever wrote this bill and the one who wrote the insurance bill are in a big fight. They don't understand each other. These two acts cannot come from the same promoter, because they exclude each other, and the proponent disproposes himself. Where? Is it in the Insurance Act, is it in the National Corporation Act? It doesn't matter at all, but they're being denied. You can't give water and fire in one day. You tell us that both water and fire are good at the same time, and that it will benefit you, and you are aware that the fire has fallen and the water is carrying. (President: Please return to the amendment. That's what this is about. So that's why it takes as much - as this congregation has some control over both corporate and government. Restrictions, limitations are required. If norm has no limitations, there's no limit, then it's not the law. Please, this law has no criminal provisions. The corporation will be without sin. There's no offense, there's no commercial offense, there's nothing. And then it comes out with the epics about what happened, as it were, apologizes big worry, just missing more socks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2747	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Nobody. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2748	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 14. The bill, which reads: "The director of the corporation appoints and resolves the governing board of corporations, with the previous consent of the government", I submitted because the basic text of the law provides for the director of the corporation to appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the board of directors also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The appointment of directors of specialised organisations in all other areas of the so-called the public sector, therefore, and the insurance organisation, is in accordance with the current rules, in the jurisdiction of the Management Board, and according to the consent of the Government, and therefore the solution proposed by this amendment should be adopted. Especially since the minister also accepted the amendment of MP Zarko Obradovic, who is not directly related to this amendment, but implies that the national corporation can become a stock company, with a solution similar to that of the Guarantee Fund. The Prime Minister's decision not to accept the amendment cannot find a foothold in any way to improve the basic text of the law, except it gives a message that someone accidentally wrote it somewhere, in some place, so out of pure stubbornness, we're not going to change now. If the regulations for other organisations are compared, this is the only possible solution. So no one disputes with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has put 10,000 euros in reserves, to choose people as board of directors, but it was simply common sense, and I have no objection that the government itself submits the amendment, to remain in accordance with the law and to board the director of the corporation. This amendment simply amends the law and brings it into direct contact and in accordance with the laws of similar types and other regulations relating to the management bodies of undertakings. If you don't accept it now, you're going to have to accept it or suggest it yourself on the first step, if and when the national housing insurance corporation really comes to life, because it's going to be inevitable because of other regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2749	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2750	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, there is really no reason not to accept this amendment, because I think that when writing the bill, a practical mistake has been stolen. You've made one solution that's at least illogical and the truth of will doesn't exist in any similar system, in any such case as this. However, what we have already said about this law, and we are still standing by it, we will support it, regardless of the government's stubborn position, but when we explain the amendments and respond to what we want for the amendments here, two false things have been subdued and it is necessary for the public to know what these two lies are. So, the saying that so far there have been no apartments, and now there will be, after the adoption of this law. What citizens need to know is -- so far there have been apartments where local self-governments, such as. The city of Belgrade has made an effort to provide favourable conditions for housing. That is what Belgrade has done, 1,000 apartments at the cost of construction have already been done; secondly, it will not be possible even after the adoption of this law only easier to reach apartments, because the law is nevertheless obviously only given for the pre-election purposes of the ruling coalition candidate. It's clear to all of us, everyone in this room knows that after this law follows a series of other laws, practically one piece of work, that one day he will live seriously. But, independently, the law should exist in the legal order, not in an emergency procedure, and not with such failures as the one relating to the selection of directors of the corporate board of directors. If we provide for Article 12 that the Government appoints a board of directors of corporations and then a member of the 14th to appoint a director of the government, then the Supervisory Board of Corporations appoints a Government, it simply becomes unclear why there is a corporation at all. It's enough here that there's a Ministry of Finance and it's doing all that. In any case, colleague Gordana Comic said nicely, if this really comes to life and goes further, the next step will be the first step, the first step will be to amend and supplement the existing law, which is the change of this member, which we now propose. We really don't understand that stubbornness, that everything that the DS is proposing has to be rejected, for reasons unknown to me, and that's what comes this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2751	By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2752	Unfortunately, here today because of the minister, we have to deal with the law, this bill and the law that are already in the legal order. Here, you see, Mrs. Comic's amendment would make sense if members 1, 2nd and 3rd spoke about the society of capital, but they were talking about fog. That's why this amendment can't possibly fit in the fog. So, if the corporation were a company of capital, the amendment would be in place. But we're trying to make something out of nothing here, to make some people realize it's like something's being made, and it's actually going to be nothing. And here's proof of that, you see, Article 14 says that the director of the corporation appoints and resolves the government on a proposal from the minister. This could be if the corporation were a republican directorate and under certain conditions a public enterprise of republican and state importance. First of all, a strategic public enterprise. But this corporation, as it was given, could also be called a company. Corporate, company, these are other names for a company of capital. Whether the underlying capital is divided into shares, shares, in the end it doesn't matter. But there's no share here, there's no share, there's no stock, there's some founding amount of 10,000 euros and by some logic of things, if it's a company, which it is, because, as you said, it's an insurance business, then we're coming into a situation that -- when your Insurance Act is adopted, and if your variant is adopted -- the National Bank of Serbia gives permission to deal with the business of insurance to a national corporation that is a state-owned enterprise, or state-owned nothing, to be exact. It doesn't make sense. You're in a tough fight when you write laws. I understand that the gap between the two draft laws is a month, but on the same day, you argue the same day. That's what worries, that's what we recognize as an ordinary prank behind which one job will be done, to provide claims and profits for selected banks. So, the director of that corporation, appointed by the government, will contact the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to give him permission to deal with insurance business, but when he looks at what it is, it is evident that the national corporation cannot deal with insurance business, because it does not conclude housing contracts, but issues securities of value, which provide claims from banks based on granted housing loans to citizens. We come to the central issue and Mrs. Comic is right, any member that you touched to comply with some of the laws already in legal traffic, you come across the wall, you encounter problems. You are facing a situation so that whoever had an understanding of this, so be it Slobodan Vučetić, only he can cross himself; even though he is not baptized, he could invite his friend from that bank to interpret what the writer wanted him to say to this. As soon as the norm is written, it is not clear to anyone what it is meant to mean, when the concepts of what insurance is, and what is the security of the claim is, when it is a hindrance to the notion of what the mortgage is and to whose benefit it is, when we are told in the interpretation of the law of the law about the monthly war of 160 euros, the average of 75% of the guaranteed claims - and there is no such mathematics, not in the text of the bill's proposal, but there is no explanation, there is not even this poll on the basis of which you came up with such a bill - of course it all causes suspicion and we claim that this is a common prank and way to create quite so-called. secondary money, and there is a reason why this is needed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least in this composition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2753	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic. Just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 100 of Section 3, which says that no offensive expressions are allowed, nor is the presentation of facts relating to the private life of other persons. That's what it says, for real, some people didn't respect it. It would not be a problem if one of the MPs did not respect it, so he was warned or warned by the president of the National Assembly, but it is not realistic and usually not good when representatives of the highest authorities do so. It's not good when you use lies or insinuations, counterfeits, but we're used to it by Mr Dinkic, it's not the first time he's told lies from this pay phone, and now I'm going to answer him forever. I will also respond to what representatives of individual political parties and the former regime and the current regime are doing. In fact, when Mr Dinkic came out for this pay phone, he must have repeated a story about apartments for the seven thousandth time. He was poor, poor, and they got flats of great radicals, and Gordana Pop-Lazic got 1,000 squares. Gordana, don't show me those other 900 and something. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: sold. You sold it, Mr Dinkic, you tried to sell it to Serbia, so you failed. Don't throw it at me, but please, you can tell someone else. Now, Mr. Dinkick, I'll teach you brains and all right, don't worry, now you'll hear. Mr. Dinkic, the problem is you don't know what to do with fiction anymore. I don't want to talk about other people's property. I have a three-bedroom apartment. I got it from the state, the state gave me 61 square meters right, I paid the rest. As for Mr Dinkic... I know that, I couldn't, right to tell you, otherwise I couldn't make any money, I couldn't go to any different... Don't get it, I said I'll get you in line, calm down a little bit and wait. So, Mr. Dinkich, it was the only way I could get it, the only way I could make it, other than stealing like you, and I don't want to do it. Mr. Dinkic, how did Labus get a 160-square apartment, where did he get a villa in Adi Giganlia, a villa in Zlatibor, where did it come from, Mr. Dinkic? Where did you get all this money? (Mladjan Dinkic, from the place: It is in your imagination. That's what he said as a presidential candidate, Mr Dinkic. In my imagination? It is in my imagination. Come without imagination, Mr. Dinkic, I repeat it once more to you, because we are like this or we are like that, and you are nice and good and honest experts, so that we change property, why do you care? To change assets, you can compare 5:1, as I've already offered, and that's nice to finally see who's how, what and how you got. Don't let me tell people and citizens of Serbia in which car I catch up with you and where you're driving. Don't, because it doesn't make sense, and I'm not even going to use that kind of demagogy that you're using. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the post: The one Karic gave you. What you're doing, I haven't seen Bogoljub Karic since when, and you're with God, he hasn't given me any, Mr Dinkic. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. ) He didn't give Tomislav Nikolic either, but what you have to invent and what you have to do so cynically to laugh and throw away shows how sad you are, and I feel sorry for you, Mr Dinkic. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. I'm done. Excuse me, Miss Krstic. I have one more thing to tell you, and I heard, at the very least, that Mr. Karic supports your candidate, the democratic one, in the second round, not Tomislav Nikolic. So much for that, Mr. Dinkich. As for your flyers she showed you... (Chairman: Please finish, you're out of time.) ) As for your flyers, Mr. Dinkic, I know two people who have the most difficult idea that they will fall from power or event when it happens. It's you and the ex who tried to make our army clean. Now let me tell you something: you're declaring Vojislav Seselj a fascist, you're declaring him a fascist father of four children who fought honestly for Serbia?- I'm sorry. I'm finishing now and thank you for your patience, Miss Krstic. Mr. Dinkic, look at you in the mirror, so compared to youHitler is Mona Liza, what kind of fascist you are and what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2755	On the basis of Art. 101st and 102th, my dear People's Messenger, Mr. Wolfichu, I give you a warning. That's the first one. Second, respect for the dignity of the National Assembly you are all calling upon is respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You went out for a pay phone, you didn't respect the weather first, then you didn't respect what you advertised for this pay phone, and in the end, you insulted that same pay phone, and I don't want to mention who, in the end, you insulted the dignity of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP. On what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2756	I thank the chairman for doing this before me. Unfortunately, we have the opportunity to listen to things, we have the opportunity to hear irresponsible people who do not aim at any law being passed in this congregation. We have the opportunity to listen to representatives of the SRS who want to obstruct the work of any law; we have the opportunity to see people sitting here at the expense of Serbian citizens and who openly say they are not interested in the law that allows them to create a final start of conditions for providing housing loans to Serbian citizens. I'm listening to how some of the state's winnings, and most of the members of the SRS sitting in this parliament get it from the state. Why didn't they get some other citizens' apartments from the state, but they had to buy them. It is because of other citizens that we must pass the law and try to create a final normal state, in which it will be possible. I understand your need for you to go out here in the presidential campaign and tell all kinds of lies and try to convince the citizens of Serbia that you are the future of this country. If you are the future of this country, Serbia has no future. That's what citizens know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2757	Here you go. Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2758	Thank you, Miss Krstic, for giving me a warning. I seem to be the man who gets the most notices in this House, it seems that I have been subscribed to that you are regularly subtracting from my salary, but it is interesting that you did not give a warning to Mr. Paunovic who said something that is much worse than what I said, and I am not ashamed and I am not withdrawing any of my words. Mr. Paunovic spoke about whether Serbia has or does not have a future with individual parties at its helm. It's interesting you didn't notice, although he missed the subject, you didn't give him a warning. It is interesting that yesterday, or Friday, you did not warn Mr. Ristivojevic, who spoke for four and a half minutes, so he was interrupted and continued for another minute. What you're doing just shows how nervous you are. I don't mind. I know you know who the future of Serbia is, I know you know who wins this election, but I'll tell you something else. The difference between us and you is that you can tell us -- you're like this, you're like this, but I'm like you, and you're all in the state, in your hands, the knife and the cake, you decide everything, you have the police, you have the courts, you have the prosecutions that you command how to act, unfortunately, just like those before you, just open up to your face, not behind your back, and wait for you to leave the hall, the difference between us and you is that you're thieves, and we're not. That's the fundamental difference. (President: I warn you you will get another warning, Mr. Wolfie. ) And you can hear all about your thieving and the cure for this thief today from our presidential candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, at the central town square in Krusevec, starting at 18 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2759	Replica, MP Branislav Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2760	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will try to calm down this tension that has been unnecessarily made in parliament in the last 15-20 minutes and to bring this debate to light where it belongs, and this is a debate on individual amendments to the bill. No one in this country, Mr. Vukic, at least not for the governments of Mr. Vojislav Kostunica and these ruling majority, will have neither the police nor the prosecution nor the knife nor the cake, nor will I, I will try to quote you, do what they want. We'll try here, as far as we can, and that's what we're doing, to build a legal state. It's where the police and the D.A.'s office don't keep anybody, it's law-abiding, they're on their own. No matter who the interior minister is, there are laws, there are norms and they will be followed and handled by the police. He will not act by anyone's free will, by anyone's own free will, nor should this country go in that direction, nor should he go in that direction. Unfortunately, it has reached that point in the previous period. When any individual rises above the institution, then you get, as a result, dictatorship. We will be here as the parliamentary majority and in the executive government that we chose to fight against. Never again will any individual rise above the institution and there will be no dictatorship. Thanks to that fact, no one here ever again (we hope to establish that political culture and such norms) will have in their hands that power where the police and the prosecution are, that they can harass anyone else. Starting to work in this House, we have set a sacred example not only for you but for anyone who is in the next term or in the future in this country who has a congregation majority; do not be difficult for you and do not find it strange to share with the opposition, for example. Assembly committees. Be brave one day, if you ever come to power, then give the opposition, as we gave you for the first time in Serbia's history to be presidents in a number of committees. And that's the last time we took advantage of that power of the majority. Never before did any opposition have the president of a assembly committee. That's what you got now without any fear, because that's the goal. It's not the opposition on the other side of the wall, it's not released in the state, it's also part of the system. The constitution of this country, since it is to be passed, should set that thing up. If anyone's in opposition, they're not cleared. He's not out of this country, out of this congregation, out of the system... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He has his place, his role. He's in opposition now. He'll be in power tomorrow. Tomorrow he's in power, the day after tomorrow in opposition. That's the state we're trying to build here, and that's why I'm determined to throw off this pay phone any insinuation from Mr. Vukic -- you have the police, the prosecution, do whatever you want. No one here does what they want, no one here has a police department, no one here has a prosecutor's office. (President: Time. They have, observe and restrict only the law, and sovereignty lies only on the people, exclusively on the people. If everyone in this country thought this way, if everyone adopted this political culture, then you would enter Europe before you were formally admitted to it. It is not, gentlemen, entering Europe that meeting certain standards is not about entering Europe to prescribe European laws, to enter Europe... (President: I warn you of time overruns. )......................................................................................................... is the acceptance of European values. It is, gentlemen, entering Europe, and that is what we have tried and what we are trying to do here, to integrate you into that system, even before we bring a new constitution that should be a reflection of these values. We're trying to show you by example what it is, what it's supposed to look like. (President: Mr Ristivoevich, I warn you on time for the third time.) That's what you have to strive for. To finish: Underline, no one here holds the police, keeps the prosecution, doesn't hold the knife, doesn't hold the cake, doesn't do what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2761	I'm setting a break for an hour. Resume at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2762	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the first item of the agenda - a bill on the national housing insurance corporation. I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic system, 84 MPs are present in the O.R. and we have a quorum to work on. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 14? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2763	Dear President, I simply had to go out for a pay phone because I see that you read the amendments terribly quickly and half the MPs do not hear what the amendments are on the agenda, nor can they be discussed, although that is their right to the Rules of Procedure. As for Mrs Gordana Comic's amendments, it is a good amendment, the result of the amendments that we have discussed earlier, and one in our opinion is a illogical solution (and not only illogically, you are a colleague), which is probably the result of someone's mistake in writing the bill, and now because of stubbornness, this amendment simply will not be accepted. It makes no sense for the director to choose the government when there is a board of directors elected by the government, when there is a supervisory board elected by the government as well. It's not an accident that the board of directors always picks directors. There is a need for a certain balance, and this amendment of ours is a reality. We have specifically warned of the fact that if, hopefully, they will, they will continue to develop the whole question about the national corporation. The question is, in particular, what are we going to do if she really changes her status form? Then it will have to change this law and why we should do it then, when we can now accept one amendment by Mrs Gordana Comic, which is perfectly logical and fully suited to this situation. Since the MPs finally made it in, we can continue to work slowly, without much haste. I don't think there's any need for haste or any particular anxiety.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2764	I haven't shown any haste since the session has been late for 40 minutes. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, is there anyone else under Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Igor Mirović, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milan Markovic, Miodrag Djidić, Slobodan Vukovic, Milovan Markovic, Dragan Vuksanovic, Dobrica Jankovic, Milan Stanimirović, Gordana Komić, Zarko Obradović, Milisav Petronijevic, Milisav Petronijevic, Miloje Saviv, Milisav Petronijevic and Miloje Savic, Milko Stimac and Vladan Vukevic. The amendment was written by the MPs: Milisav Petronijevic on Article 14, Miloje Savivić on Article 39, Zarko Obradović on Members 142 and 237, together Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic on Article 243 and Igor Mirovic on Articles 142 to 180 on 4 May 2004. There's something wrong with the microphones for the second time today, and if anyone feels something's wrong with him, I'm asking that it be resolved outside this assembly hall. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the Security Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović proposed one amendment to the title above Articles 18 and 18, as well as Articles 25, 32, Items 1, 34, 35, 37, 39 (except for heading 4), 41 to 44, 48, 49, 51 to 54, 57, 59, 76, 76 (other than item 3), 79, 81, 82 (other than item 3), 83, 86, 88, 91, 94, 95, 96, 96, 113 (other than heading 6), 115, 115, 119, 119, 129, 122, 122, 142, 142 to 182, 187, to 191, 197, to 201, 210, 210, 214, 214, 216, 222, 222, 225, 229, 229, 230, 237, 241 and 244. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2765	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendment of distinguished counterpart Leila Ruzdic refers to the introduction of an independent agency that would oversee insurance. In principle, we pointed out that in the modern world there are three ways of supervision in insurance matters. The first mode of supervision is the one that runs the finance ministry. In this case, the finance ministry forms a special body composed of experts from the given area and they oversee the insurance business. There's another kind of surveillance, which DS stands for, and that's surveillance through an independent body. So, the Republic Government proposes members of the board of directors or, no matter what they call themselves, the bodies of that body, but generally proposes those who need to make up the organs of that body and that body is, in the context of the affairs established by law, independent and independent in its work. We think it's the best possible solution to the situation we're in. During the principle discussion, we also referred to a part of what the minister said in his presentation, which is also the existence of an independent body that controls insurance operations, but it is one higher level of such supervision and is applied in countries with developed financial markets, where such a body does not only oversee insurance operations, but also all banking businesses. But the finance minister is not here right now. I took a stenogram of his exposure in explaining the bill. Mr. Minister explained in the following way why he proposed one method or one surveillance system that we have called an unprecedented surveillance system so far, because in neither of us known countries, such a surveillance system has been applied. It is the supervision to be carried out by the National Bank of Serbia. Mr. Minister then said that the agency, as we suggest, cannot be formed, because it would take time, and they have no resources. In other words, the government is unable to form that agency, but that's why the central bank is capable. I don't know why Mr. Minister is in this way acknowledging the incompetence of a government that, more or less, we've all noticed here in the last two months. Then, he says, "The developed European countries have independent agency surveillance tasks," which means they recognise the existence of independent agencies themselves, but says, "These are European Union countries, where independent agencies are simultaneously overseeing the work of insurance companies, but also supervision of the work of banks." That's true, but it's not true that it's just this surveillance system. Mr. Minister was not honest here, because the surveillance system we propose is, for example, applied in Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary. I mention them because these are countries that are roughly on the same path that we are on, the truth is something a little faster than we are, but it is applied in some other European countries, such as, say, Finland. So, we suggest introducing an independent body that would oversee insurance. We believe that if this amendment is not accepted and the decision remains to be made to have that supervision carried out by the central bank, it will be a kind of etatization, a kind of centralisation of that function. We have already told you that this is contrary to the Ministry Act, which we have recently adopted. It is also not in line with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, where Articles 5, 6 and 7 and members of the 54th part-time work of the National Bank, especially those related to the control functions of the National Bank of Serbia, are envisaged. This all arouses our suspicions that it is very carelessly slipping into an experiment that will ultimately cost taxpayers dearly. So in the end, I ask you, although Mr. Minister is not present here at the Assembly session, to accept this amendment which I consider to be very important and essential for the functioning of our country's security system. If you would accept this amendment, you would fundamentally amend this bill, and that would, of course, affect us to support the law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2766	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been clearly found in the debate that the Ministry, I believe on purpose, wrote in the light of the proposal for this law a notorious untrue which, in the most part, refers precisely to the potential interference of the National Bank of Serbia in the process of overseeing the performance of insurance in our country. And colleagues from other MP clubs have pointed to this inaccuracy, at least inaccuracy, and I repeat, I am confident that it is a conscious intention to deceive MPs of the National Assembly. It is amazing in the context of the bill's proposal that the supervision of insurance carried out by the National Bank of Serbia is a European solution, and that no European country, I think of European Union countries, in the practice of insurance supervision, does not have a national bank as some supreme house that controls that activity. So, the finance ministry has deceived us, Minister Dinkic has deceived us. And if we were indeed a democratic country and were exactly what Mr. Ristivojevic had purposely described us in the afternoon debate, we would see in the work of a new minister today, not Minister Dinkic, precisely because of this deception. So we have to correct what's wrong with the bill. I tried to amend it to Article 18. Two possible solutions. The first solution is this, which the predecessor spoke of -- to form a special agency to monitor the work of insurance houses. I think it's unacceptable, first of all, for one simple reason: we already have too many agencies in our country. I think we can run an example of some countries like France, Belgium, Russia. At least when it comes to France and Belgium, we have an example that can be compatible with this example of ours and that may be on the trail of our need to bring legislation into line with European Union legislation. They're being supervised by the Treasury Department. I don't know why the finance minister is running away from the insurance supervision of the Ministry of Finance. What's the motive? I have indicated in the amendment, and I believe that you will accept this, that the Department of Security Control of the Ministry of Finance is overseeing the performance of the activities of the insurance company and carrying out other tasks prescribed by this law. So, there is already a ministry, and there are already professional people employed by the ministry, who have so far, the truth of far less importance than they would have had through special administration, controlled. There is also technical support in the ministry itself, and it is not more natural than that of the Ministry, through special administration, overseeing the activity of insurance. If the motive is to perform real, true and professional surveillance, then it is best through the supervisory office, where qualified and professional people would work. If the motive is something else, it seems to be, in a short time, that our insurance house is being exported to the market, sold out, sold out below the value, to fill the budget, because the minister seems to be having trouble filling the budget, then it's not worth discussing. If insurance is the subject of our serious debate and if we want not only to control the real situation but also to strengthen the positions of our domestic insurance houses, then I believe that you will vote for my amendment to Article 18, which provides a European solution, applied in the practice of European countries and which provides professional, adequate, realistic and cheap, because the existing state body is already controlling the insurance, the way domestic insurance companies work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2768	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr. Markovic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2769	Dear colleagues, what Honorable counterpart Mirovic was saying in principle only suggests that when we have a different opinion, and obviously we have a different view of the type of surveillance that should be applied in our country, but it is obvious that both MP groups are practically surprised by the way, that is, the type of supervision chosen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So again, I repeat, regardless of whether you will accept our amendment, if you do not already accept our amendment, you may consider another amendment, but do not insist on a solution which, as the colleague said, is European and is not in any European country. Otherwise, in Russia it is a proposed system of independent supervision and there it has been assessed as a future for them; they cannot apply it now because of other types of administrative obstacles. It is obvious that independent supervision by a practically independent body that the government would form what is sooner or later waiting for our country, and again here we are in a situation where, perhaps from some other initiatives here, we are proposing a solution that is not unique to those states, that is, the currents that we, or the ruling majority here advocate to belong to them. Therefore, one of these two proposals should definitely be accepted. I suggest that you accept the DS proposal, it is certainly a step forward, but what is 100% sure, should not be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is an experiment. So, I repeat, it's definitely an experiment that should be submitted later by citizens, or by the taxpayers of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2770	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, please. To avoid confusion, you were probably referring to the amendment by Mrs Ruzdic, is that right, Mr Markovic, since there is no DS proposal, you were referring to this proposal by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic? Excuse me, just confirm that there would be no confusion among the MPs, yes or no, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2771	I have to explain, because what you said would question my relationship with the material we're talking about. Unfortunately, unfortunately for you, and fortunately for me, I'm fully related to the material we're talking about and we're talking about the surveillance system and we're talking about this particular case of one amendment, and before that were the other amendments. So, you are not talking about the amendment to Leile Ruzdić-Trifunović, you are, unfortunately, wrong, or you have not studied the material that we have today as a point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2772	So I ask you once again, so you mean the previous amendment, right, and that's the amendment to Leile Ruzdic, and now it's on the agenda for Mr Mirovic's amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy. There's no need for me to study what it says. Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Excuse me, please, one moment, excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2773	This is probably a central amendment and is affecting the very essence of the overall change announced in the insurance system in Serbia. Mr Igor Mirovic and Mrs Leila Ruzdic have submitted various amendments to the same article. Mr. Igor Mirovic throws the focus of control, control of the issue, withdrawal of permits and authority to the executive authority because it is the concept of the SRS. Mrs Ruzdic represents the position of an independent body or organisation that would be outside the executive authority. These are two amendments that differ significantly from the bill, because it proposes something that is practically impossible. I would only return a little discussion to the constitutional and legal basis for one of these laws and especially for one such solution to who should be doing these jobs. You see, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 1990. Until a year ago, the entire insurance system was on a federal level, and a full-time surveillance job, licensing, authority, was in the jurisdiction of the federal finance ministry. By adopting this Constitutional Charter, by the logic of things, these transactions go to the Republic Ministry of Finance. Now it's proposed to be completely something third, and it can't exist. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the laws are enforced, that care for law enforcement is executive power, and executive power is the authorities of the state administration, which are primarily the ministries. For three and a half years, we have been working on a kind of revision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by forming without the constitutional basis of various agencies, associations, etc. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows for the possibility of professional and economic affairs being removed from the territory and out of the interest of the Republic from the state authorities and given to republican organisations or special enterprises. But classic administrative jobs nobody else can do except the state authorities. The National Bank of Serbia is a central issue of the institution, responsible for monetary policy and financial discipline. She doesn't have any interference or any place when it comes to all the insurance business. So it remains practical for MPs to accept only the amendment of the SRS, because only it can be in accordance with the Constitution. If the Constitution is changed, so a constitutional framework is created to enforce the law, especially control, supervision, issuing permits from the state structure, I mean the authority of the state administration, then it's a different situation, and then there's room for this amendment to the DS. What we're all absolutely sure of is that what the government suggested is absolutely impossible. Now, why is he insisting on that solution? Of course there are luxuriant jobs, simulated laws and probably interests in the system – where the money, where the financial market, where the concentration of capital is, that and the sparrows on the branch know who can appear and who has the need to put their paws and control everything. Well, you noticed earlier that a reverse process appeared here, the former government watched as much as they could get the finance ministry, so they saw when they fell out of power that it was the wrong concept, they learned a lesson. The second process is now going, but the process is within that party that holds both the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. These stories of expertise, quality, etc. All this falls into the water, all of it can move to a special administration within the Ministry of Finance and finish the job. I'm just paying attention to you, if you continue to define an organ or organisation or even, to be more precise, an association that needs to perform some state functions, you know, we have a law on gambling, and financial resources appear in some areas, so you'll be very disappointed when you hear how to execute a kind of deetatisation past the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2774	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mrs. Ruzdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2775	Thank you. I wasn't there to explain my amendment and I'm very sorry. I thought I wasn't answering my word, but I see there's been some confusion here, so I have a desire to explain it. Both amendments speak of the fact that the NBS cannot be a supervisory authority. However, I must note that Mr Krasic is wrong. The organ we predict, i.e. A surveillance agency is an independent body, but with the government. The supervision should be carried out by an independent body that is responsible for its work to the government, i.e. the competent ministry. Such solutions are also in countries in transition and in Europe. For example, this has Finland, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary. If Mr Krasic had seen all the amendments I submitted, he would know that I have amendments to Article 42 that predict how the agency is formed and what it is doing. It makes it clear that the agency is tied to the government, it is an independent body, but it is elected by the government, its statute is accepted by the government. Besides, when the amendment comes to Article 142, then I'll explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2776	Replica, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2777	Here, just to be clear about some things. I'll use existing examples. You formed the IRS two years ago, and you put it to great trouble, to be under the patronage of the Ministry of Finance. Before that, it was the Republic Administration of Public Revenue, more like an independent body that conducted even administrative proceedings. The Constitutional Court has warned you that this must be returned under the patronage of the Ministry of Finance. Find your own analogy compared to these agencies of yours, not to mention the resolution of the National Bank of Serbia. Another example, you have the Public Procurement Authority, which also performs administrative tasks, implements the law, controls, and not to talk about all other bodies and administrative organisations. And take an example of customs. Now it's the Republic Customs Administration, after the transformation of the SRJ into the state community, and it's in direct contact with the Ministry of Finance. It is a dispute, and I suppose most people share their opinion that the Customs Administration should be closer to the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad, or even to the Ministry of Trade. Yeah, yeah, you could. Secondly, you have a number of administrative organisations that enforce laws and therefore the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the type of organisation that would be called - agency, bureau or something else. For these professional jobs, which are necessary for the state, we have the Republic Statistics Service as a special management organisation. It used to be the Republic Development Institute, it does professional work for the state, certain administrative affairs, but no supervision, control, authorisation, authorisation, approval, etc. Transferring state affairs, dealings in the jurisdiction of state authorities, to such undefined agencies, the association I would say, the Constitution does not know. That's the problem. Change the Constitution. Give the opportunity to form independent bodies and independent organisations that would enforce the laws and then there will be no problem with any of this solution coming from the Democratic Party. But this solution that comes from the government, that the NBS is doing these jobs, is practically impossible. The constitution does not know that, regardless of what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has only one member talking about the NBS. But you should understand that this constitution was brought in because it meant the Constitution of the federal state, when the NBJ was the central show of the institution, and the NBS remained as some constitutional solution to protect Serbia's interest, because of that last member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So the problem is simple. The solution exists in the Constitution and the only legal solution is - permits, approval, control, supervision, in one of the organisational forms within the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2778	Mr. Krasic, time, three minutes is for replication. Thank you. Excuse me, please. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2779	Thank you. Article 24 provides for a ban on the conclusion of an intermediation contract and an insurance representation contract. I asked that this member be completely amended and read as follows: "The insurance company, within the limits of the powers granted, may conclude an insurance intermediation agreement and an insurance representation contract only with a person who has been authorised to carry out those tasks or a legal person who carries out insurance interventions under a special law and under the prior records of the Agency and under the conditions prescribed by this law. "This solution wanted to establish the obligation to register entities that carry out representation and mediation tasks under special laws, but according to previous records of the agency. Of course, Article 145 of the proposed law provides that the report, i.e. the National Bank’s register, and since I asked the National Bank not to be a supervisory authority but to introduce a surveillance agency, was necessary for this member to be changed in this regard and for that record to be kept in the Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2780	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2781	Col. Ruzdic's amendment is another one that, regardless of the system we define ourselves for, should be accepted because it is simply an amendment that corrects the existing text of the law. This solution lays down the obligation to record entities carrying out intervention and representation activities under the existing law, following prior registration by the Agency. I think that this is a far better and more precise solution, which in practice will certainly be achieved in full, because if we keep the solution set out in the previous position, we will have serious problems, sooner or later, when it comes to the conclusion of a mediation contract and insurance representation contracts. However, since I didn't take advantage of the opportunity for the replica last time, I only want to correct one vagueness. So what is not prohibited in democratic societies, explicitly forbidden, is allowed. It's just, it's some axiom, that's what we all know. Secondly, if you take a closer look at our amendments, which follow our idea of forming an agency as an independent and independent body that would supervise, you will see that this agency can be subjected to a provision of the Constitution which, when it lists the powers of the Government, clearly speaks about the education of agencies, other bodies, and says: it does other tasks in accordance with the law. There is no comment on the unconstitutional solution proposed, but it is definitely more than clear to everyone that (because it is unfortunately our Republic government) a solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and from the point of view of the Constitution and internal legislation, and also from the point of view of the need of this state, is entirely unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2782	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on insurance submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is one of the extremely good and quality laws, which absolutely imposes order and regulates the work of insurance companies. Of course, I submitted one amendment, and it's an amendment to the height of the censorship, because I thought the censorship was too high and that the height of the censorship does not determine the quality of the insurance company, nor the integrity of a house. There are small insurance houses in Serbia, which are honorable and fair and where very quickly and efficiently charge damage, and there are also large insurance houses that have too many of their committees in court today. I believe that the honesty and quality of a house determines the program and work of that house, the integrity of the owner of that house and, of course, the way it wants to do and what that house wants to achieve; whether it wants to work long-term or wants to reach certain means in a short period of time. I'd like to highlight a forest house that's not so strong and strong, but it's honorable and fair; it's an insurance house like that, and all its committees know that they're very fast and efficient, and they charge the damage when they need it. For these reasons, I felt that the censorship should be appropriate, that even these smaller houses could pay for that censorship, so that we wouldn't get into a situation that in some way only large, strong and powerful can have insurance houses and insurance companies, and of course, tomorrow they're also monopolies, i.e., monopolies. that only great, strong and strong touch the height of future insurance. So I suggest that one such quality and good law in some way protect these small insurance companies, which work honestly and honestly knowing that the damages are dependent on the way they work; 80% of the insurance is allocated to the damages, and 20% of the funds are allocated to all other costs, including personal incomes. I urge the MPs to consider this amendment. In a way, these 40% won't mean anything to large houses, but these small honorary insurance companies will mean much, because they will remain independent. This way, if we don't cut the price of investment, small houses will be forced to make some deals and join together so they can pay off this amount of censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2784	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Mirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2785	It is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the amount of the share of the capital, that the minimum price for the establishment of insurance houses cannot be as large and at the same amount as the Government, or finance minister, proposes. There's another hoax in the works. So, European laws, reforms, directives, sometimes the European Economic Community, and now the EU that prescribes what we should do through our laws if one day we want to be part of the EU, but the proposing does not work that way. See these directives, in particular Directive 73/239, which speaks, when it comes to life insurance, about 800,000 euros as a minimum for the establishment and operation of insurance companies, and we have this amount of four million euros. See another example: for non-life insurance 1,400 thousand euros, as some kind of a directive or some kind of binding rule or binding instructions for EU countries. With us, it's for non-life insurance 4.5 million euros. A colleague, Vucicevic, is right here. What is the goal of the Ministry of Finance? It seems that the aim is to choke small insurance houses, to keep them working only large in a short period of time, to privatise those large under the provisions of this law even shorter and that we no longer have a domestic insurance house in Serbia. The whole law, when you analyse from the first to the last member, is being traced to this intention by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Therefore, the SRS will support all amendments that are on track to secure the capital of domestic insurance houses before privatisation and to apply this directive of the EU only to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2786	MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2787	In order to ensure the stability of the functioning of any system and to guarantee to users that one organisation is able to be a legal person, which means the holder of the rights and obligations and that it meets its obligations in a orderly manner, in particular the monetary amount of the underlying capital of each company of capital, of each legal person shall be prescribed. If there is a censorship for the developed countries of Western Europe when they are founded, and if there are exactly the amounts Mr. Mirovic had just talked about, then we should probably be censors and lower than that amount. But there's something that the state can't do. One of the rules of anti-monopol legislation is to encourage competition. So someone has concluded that it's not enough for a monopoly to put pressure on certain provisions, but it's much more effective when it stimulates competition and develops the market. Here we have a government that talks about it being defined by the demand economy, that advocates competition, and sets out conditions that can meet two, three companies in this country and creates a space for us to have insurance companies from abroad, which, of course, can always be withdrawn, because that capital in the money that stays here after their withdrawal is a meaningless amount of funds for them. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no right to destroy domestic insurance houses. She's authorized to put them in order. There's such a high limit here that they can't meet, and we know that our insurance companies mostly have in the core capital of the immovableity of the exceptional value, so they're able to always meet the grotesque of their obligations, they don't need to choke and shut down these provisions on the monetary part of the capital. That's how it seems to be a shame. The problem that some insurance companies or most of these small ones are not able to meet all insurance obligations is not in the provisions of the Insurance Act, but in the general economic situation in our country. If this general economic situation were to be improved and the money and goods flows brought into line, it would increase the volume of goods domestic production and the level of services and at all increase the value of work and social product in our country, and our insurance companies would be able to meet all their contractual obligations. The SRS is against this inversion, the replacement. The problem lies in something that is not a problem, to create space for the chosen and to create some new competition. We have no right to support this. Therefore, the SRS will support any proposal and any amendment that reduces the financial amount of the underlying capital for insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2788	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2789	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the quorum be determined. The reason is that a part of the MPs comes here fairly, works, comes out for a pay phone, tries to say something or listen to something, and a part of the MPs from the ruling coalition is mostly at the buffet, in the lobby. I think it's high time to establish the quorum here and take care of the order in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2790	Thank you. I ask all MPs to insert their cards to check the quorum. The electronic system shows 78 MPs are present in the O.R. Since it's not allowed to deceive citizens, please check the service by counting. We have determined by counting that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that everyone present, as Mr Markovic said, is doing a job for the state and for all of us. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment that we've been considering so far? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2791	The Honorable President, and we had a miracle in the Assembly, but like this, to count 90 and 84 cards, it wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2792	It seems that some MPs are taking their business unrelentingly, so they don't put in cards. Don't worry, we can count again if you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2793	It's enough for me to see that something's wrong by the smiles of the MPs. The amendment to Article 32 - is another amendment that we want to amend the insurance law. So, Article 32, as proposed, reads this: "In order to acquire the shares of the insurance company, one person directly or indirectly acquires qualified participation (hereinafter referred to as the qualified owner) in the insurance company needs the consent of the National Bank of Serbia. The person who has received the consent of Article 1 of this article is obliged to obtain the consent of the National Bank of Serbia for any further acquisition of the shares of the insurance company, in the event that the new acquisition exceeds the amount of 20, 33, 50 and 66 per cent of the participation in the capital of another person or participation in the right of another person's voice. When participation of shareholders in the insurance company's capital is reduced by 10%, the company is obliged to inform the National Bank of Serbia. "Our proposal is as follows: "The persons who have received the consent of the first member's position are required to obtain the consent of the agency for any further acquisition of the insurance company's actions. "So, according to our solution, which we think is more precise than previously, the obligation for a qualified owner to obtain the consent of the agency in the event of any further acquisition of the shares of the insurance company independent of the percentage participation in the capital of another person. Of course, it is clear to you that the term of the agency is due to all of our amendments which concern the underlying objections to the proposal of your law, which is that you want to apply a solution that is clearly unknown to the good part of the MPs, which is that the central bank is overseeing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2794	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2795	In order not to remain unarranged, since I did not report for the previous amendment I submitted, and neither did counterpart Gordana Comic, and Mr. Minister showed up in the Assembly, I will tell you what it is. Therefore, the previous debate of Mr. Minister referred to the wish or intention, or proposal of the Democratic Party MPs, as well as MPs of other opposition groups, to give up the solution for the central bank to oversee insurance operations. This very amendment that I'm explaining right now is the result of this idea of ours. There are two approaches in the Assembly. Both approaches are strongly opposed to your proposal and strongly criticise your proposal, which we continue to think that you have not given a valid explanation, or as regards the appeal to the practice of other European countries that allegedly have applied such an approach, and that this has been successful, nor have you given us a valid explanation from the aspect of internal legislation, how compatible your approach is with what is now existing in our legal order. One approach is for the solution to be like in some countries of France or Russia, which, however, are strategic policies such as to move on sooner or later to another solution. The first solution is to oversee the Ministry of Finance through a special administration, where experts, security personnel, would be involved. The second proposal is the proposal offered by the Democratic Party, a solution implemented in Slovenia, Hungary, Croatia, Finland, which is that insurance supervision operations are performed by an independent body formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is within the framework of the affairs established by law on its own and independent basis. So that's something that MPs here have been leading the controversy for the past two hours. I hope I've filed enough exhaustive reports so we can keep working. We submit this amendment to Article 78(3) and propose that the words "National Bank of Serbia" be replaced by "Government". Why do we propose that? Because we don't think that the National Bank of Serbia should be doing these jobs, because we know that the Law on the National Bank of Serbia does not provide for any jobs that are now being placed in its jurisdiction. Because we know that the Law on Ministry Affairs of Control, Oversight and Other Jobs in this area has been placed in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. That is why we propose that in article 78, paragraph 3 "The National Bank of Serbia" is replaced by the word "Government". I must say that this House has increasingly expressed its opinion that this solution, which we believe is experimental in some way, is about the division of power within the ruling coalition, where all the resources of financial power in our country should be within one party. So we're against it in principle, and in concrete law we're against because we think there are less risky and more appropriate solutions to our order and time in which we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2796	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2797	The amendment to Article 78 refers to Article 3 where the words "The National Bank of Serbia" are replaced by the word "Government". Our proposal, as part of the total number of amendments that we have submitted as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party, refers to the idea that surveillance is transferred to an independent body, which is of course with the government of the Republic of Serbia and then, of course, under the control of the Serbian Parliament, and to be an agency. It is a close solution proposed by MP Igor Mirovic in his amendments; different by structure, of course, and different in reason, but the idea is the same. Let's not give the National Bank of Serbia powers for which the National Bank should not have jurisdiction in any country, so neither should we. What's opening up here as a possibility? The National Bank not only runs monetary policy but also leads economic policy, which is inadmissible for the National Bank's institution. Economic policy and fiscal policy are in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The supervision of such organisations or institutions, such as those mentioned in the insurance law, must be within the framework of the executive bodies of the government, and hence under the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All the conditions for issuing an insurance and reinsurance licence should be prescribed by the Government and the Agency should do so. The Agency as a regulatory body faces too much resistance from all those who want us to stick to the Constitution when it suits us and when we interpret it as it suits us. But then management can be a transitional solution, with full awareness that in the next step, so in a year or a year and a half, we'll re-change the insurance law. Why not the National Bank? Because you're basically giving these virtually out of control to the National Bank essentially the financial market in your hands. If you place financial market in someone's hands; therefore insurance as an action, represents a cap, top of what normally happens in the country's economy and financial summit, such as a hat or as children say cherry at the top of a cake, there must be in these dealings conditions for issuing insurance and resecuritisation permits in the jurisdiction of the executive authorities. If we remain persistent in this solution to put this into the National Bank, then the big question for this assembly is what it is that economic policy, which will be dealt with by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If there is an illusion with the finance minister or with the minister of economy and privatisation (in resignations) or with the Minister of Employment and Social Affairs that he will be able to present any demagogy instead of economic policy, then it is better to give up this illusion on your own than to put pressure on the bad consequences of these laws, which make the National Bank a completely uncontrollable institution. If you put the financial market in the hands of the National Bank, if you open the space for, practically, all the leverages for the country's economic policy, then you don't have any institution that you can periodically or in any way exercise control and control over the National Bank. It can be noted that we have the Law on the National Bank and in the work concerning the resolution of the governors of the National Bank or in the part of the report that the National Bank of Serbia should submit to the Serbian Parliament, but that is a fine argument when it comes to dealing with matters that the legislator should give into the hands of the National Bank of Serbia. I repeat, without the vanity of the opposition MP, accept either the amendment of the DS parliamentary groups or the amendments that represent a step lower, but still a step forward in relation to the existing solution in the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2798	Proposer -- Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2799	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let's clarify this false dilemma where the supervisory supervision of the insurance companies should be performed. There are three ways, three institutions, three places where the supervisory of insurance companies in the world are performed. First, it can be an independent insurance control agency, as the previous lady also suggested by the DS parliamentary group. It's a legitimate solution and it exists in the world. The second legitimate solution is a special institution with the Ministry of Finance. That's what the SRS suggested. The third solution, which also exists, is the central bank. So there are three completely equal solutions in the world, with the country itself deciding which of these three solutions to choose from. I guess if the finance ministry were defined as an agency, it would be criticised why the National Bank doesn't do it, we would be criticised why we all allegedly want to concentrate in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. Now that we move something out of the finance ministry and put it in a central bank, which is the only independent state institution in the country, the criticism is why it is not left in the finance ministry. It's something that's really not a real argument. It doesn't matter where the insurance supervisor is doing it's important how it's done, how it's done, whether it's quality. I have to tell you, we haven't thought at any time about the possibility of the Ministry of Finance, the special management of the ministry. It's the worst possible solution. We were thinking and, I admit, we had a dilemma about it being an independent agency or being a central bank. He went beyond pragmatism, as the central bank can move faster and more efficiently into the process of controlling insurance companies, without additional budget costs, without creating an additional administration that the agency would have to create, without creating additional logistics support. It's the only advantage of a central bank over an independent agency. To create an independent agency, it would take far more time to ask for money from the taxpayers of Serbia. Otherwise, in the essential sense, it would be a quality solution. In the end, I have to say that we had a debate that lasted almost a year, both before and now, in the end, and with the World Bank mission. In the end, it overcame the opinion that it was a central bank. So I have to say that the institutional training of the National Bank of Serbia was one reason why she would do the job. I don't argue that it could be done equally well at the agency, but it would require additional costs, additional operational expenditure. That's the only reason we entrusted this to the National Bank of Serbia. In addition, the National Bank of Serbia has shown in the last three years that it is able to take account, as the law requires, of the stability of all financial institutions in the country. There was another reason why we defined ourselves as the National Bank of Serbia. In developed countries, especially in the countries of the European Union, which we also seek, supervision and supervision of banks and insurance companies are carried out within the same institution. It's usually a financial system surveillance agency, where there's a special department to oversee insurance companies and control banks. However, all European Union countries established such agencies after a degree of evolutionary development, not at the very beginning. Our opinion was that it would be too early to now move out of the business of controlling banks from the National Bank of Serbia and moving into the agency. Advantage of the so-called Half the separatical supervision has an integrated supervisory vision. Integrated supervisory means when one institution controls both banks and insurance companies. That's what we're trying to do, but at this point Serbia is in phase two of the transition and we are not yet able to get out of the central bank of bank supervisory affairs. When it is done, and that will be the moment when we enter the European Union, then along with the bank's supervisory tasks, the tasks of the supervisory board of insurance companies will be moved and the agency that the DS MPs are now talking about will be formed. However, I would like to conclude that this is not an essential question. This is a matter of technique, of cost, of efficiency. That's one reason why we've defined ourselves for this solution, respecting that it could be defined as an agency. However, there are little more arguments on the part of the central bank at the moment, in Serbia in 2004. In Serbia 2008 or 2010, I agree, it will be an independent agency. Right now, this is a better solution. As far as reporting is concerned, the National Bank of Serbia is legally required to report to the Serbian Assembly once a year on its overall work, and another annual report on the control of the work of financial organisations, which will include a report on the work of insurance companies. In this way it is possible for MPs of this high house to control both the work and the supervisory work of both banks and insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2800	Replica, then Mr. Krasic by amendment. The replica - on the basis of your misrepresentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2801	Article 97(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - on the wrong interpretation and the direct mention of the previous speaker for the speaker. Deeply I do not want to believe your sentence, I quote: "The Ministry of Finance is not institutionally qualified to issue permits and supervise insurance and resecuritisation jobs." That, if it were true, would mean that you couldn't be a minister, because you have nothing to be a minister, if the Ministry wasn't institutionally qualified to perform essentially clear tasks in issuing an insurance and reinsurance permit. That's one. You said there are three equal systems: a central bank, an agency, a administration or something with the government; then you have to give some argument to this assembly in which it is equal. In numerous representations in countries with a close degree of economic and political development or is it equal to the amount of money that exists on the financial market or is it equal to and close to some political system that exists in that country? I have no intention of delaying the right of the ruling majority to choose, finally, a central bank. It is my obligation, as MPs of the opposition, to warn that it produces bad consequences, not according to the ruling majority, that you yourself have taken care of it, given that the law and the work of this assembly are ongoing, but that it produces bad consequences on the financial market for insurance and resecuritisation. Our assessment of whether Serbia is ready to take over in the finance ministry in 2004, and you say 2008, is different from yours. So, I think the finance ministry is ready to do jobs like this now, and that would be a win for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for the Assembly, because it would not be a risk for the National Bank of Serbia to practically lead the country's economic policy in the future, not just monetary policy. If the National Bank of Serbia had such a logic at a time when you were governor or Mrs. Udovici after you or Mr. Jelasic now, if Serbia were not ready for something, it would not have come true, and here we fully agree, significant results as a central monetary institution. People put themselves in a barrier. If they put it too low, then they can't reach a score. The DS parliamentary group thinks the Ministry of Finance is institutionally qualified and that it is an obstacle to the assembly and that the government of the Republic of Serbia has skipped because it is a gain for the country's financial security market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2802	On the occasion of the same amendment, Mr Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2803	I think we finally need to clear things up. The National Bank of Serbia is the central issue of the monetary system institution responsible for financial discipline, etc. It is organised by state authorities in the same rank as the Supreme Authority of the Executive Authority, the Government. You can't break the National Bank to the level of the ministry by trusting her with the jobs that belong to the ministry. You just did it. Something that according to the Constitution, according to the current legal order with us belongs to the Ministry of Finance, you are moving and giving to the National Bank of Serbia, which is more in the hierarchy than the ministry. It is approximately in rank with the government of the Republic of Serbia. So that's the first thing. Secondly, I appreciate you saying that the worst solution is if the Ministry is doing these jobs, but then you have to explain whether this worst solution is based on some personal reasons, an inheritance, or who knows what other reason, which is why the Ministry is not qualified to do so. If the minister is unable to remove these interferences to move these jobs to the ministry, then it is indeed a problem for the government, the coalition, and even the minister and those who voted for such a minister. Furthermore, the minister pointed to the existence of three different systems that come to an organisation or body responsible for issuing permits, authority, control, supervisory etc., but all three systems are based on some constitutional solution. Constitutional systems in the Western European countries allow for the existence of independent institutions. We cannot, based on some directive, some recommendations and some practices, ignore the fact that there is still the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He can't crack pragmatism to beat the constitution as the highest act in one state. If any overall argument and its constitutional and legal basis for this trip is called control, supervision, supervisory, supervisory by the National Bank of Serbia, when it comes to insurance business, if it is based on practice, on experience, and not on our Constitution, please, then we are not authorized to talk about it. Anyone who votes for any legislative proposal in the first place must consider what is written in the explanation, which is under the I - constitutional basis. The constitutional basis for trusting these matters to the National Bank of Serbia does not exist and there is an end to the story, because in our constitutional and legal order, nothing more significant happened by adopting the Constitutional Charter, except that some jurisdiction was transferred from the federal level to the republican level. If it was the federal finance ministry's jurisdiction, it's probably now in the jurisdiction of the republican finance ministry. This analogy has been applied to many of the matters of jurisdiction of the federal state which have been transferred to a republican level. Further, personnel training, to finish this taboo topic; so, people, please, those people who are going to work on these jobs pay 80 or 100,000 dinars and you're going to get personnel. Whether someone is receiving a salary of 80 or 100,000 dinars at the finance ministry or at the National Bank of Serbia, from the point of view of insurance, it doesn't matter. That's the cost, so it's the cost. Please, higher salaries at the National Bank of Serbia are a guarantee that the law will be better implemented. Do not change your thesis again in the lack of quality arguments for the attitude you represent. That has to be taken care of. The bill must come from our Constitution. These control solutions, licence controls, etc. They're not based on the Constitution. I wouldn't be surprised if in a few months we got a bill that shuts down the Securities Commission, because it's similar jobs, so it can be done by the National Bank of Serbia. How far are we gonna go, I mean that state-owned erosion?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2804	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2805	Mr. Minister, you plead that it is important, through the solutions offered by this law, to provide two things, of course, to monitor the performance of the insurance: firstly, who and secondly, to supervise. You said that the supervision of this activity in some countries of the world is entrusted to national banks, central broadcasting institutions or central banks. I'm telling you it's only in four countries of the world. If you give me more than four countries where the central bank is overseeing, then I'll be ready to withdraw my amendment. You know very well that it's only in four countries, two are in Latin America, and one is Kazakhstan, and I think it's another country that's in transition. That's the first one. Then how do we understand your general commitment to the complementarity of our legislation and the legislation of the European Union, how to understand the errors in the reasoning of the law, is the easiest expression – mistakes, how to understand the appeal of European Union directives in many other segments of the law, and they differ from these solutions that you offer. Second question, who's in charge. You said it was important that professional, trained personnel with experience in insurance, or in the supervision of insurance operations are supervised, however, in Article 151, where you are talking about insurance inspectors, you suggest that, I will now quote: "The insurance inspector may be a person who, in addition to the general conditions prescribed by law, meets the following conditions: he has a high school arrangement of economic or legal direction; he is not unconditionally sentenced to a prison sentence for six months and is not subject to criminal proceedings". More conditions are required for trainees at any business bank. Therefore, you are talking about the issue of expertise of those who will exercise supervision, and you suggest that these individuals have the ultimate minimum of expertise, in fact trainees can be accepted as insurance inspectors to oversee the activity of insurance in insurance houses. So something is extremely contradictory in your views. Therefore, it is possible that one day, when we continue to develop a system of surveillance, we will come into a phase to form an independent body, an independent agency, but today, Mr Krasic spoke well of it, and the SRS is behind it, we have the Ministry of Finance, we have professional people in the Ministry. Because in Article 228, you say that the National Bank of Serbia will take over employees of the Ministry of Finance's ministry who, on the day of the entry into force of this law, carried out tasks in the field of security of property and persons, as well as equipment, archives and other documentation and means of work that were used to carry out insurance operations. So, in the Ministry, we already have everything. We need to form a special administration, that this special administration goes through the further specialisation process, to withdraw personnel from the Federal Ministry, if they have not withdrawn, and that this matter is resolved exactly in the way most MPs are advocated, so that we have supervision that meets the rules of the European Union and that is compatible with their legislation and their directives, and that we have professional people who will exercise that supervision. So, something about your public pawning and advocacy for this pay phone is not the same, it's not in line with the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2806	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? I'm just gonna ask you to put your card in the MP's unit first. Thank you. Here's a word from the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2807	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the beginning of the apology. On my way into the O.R., I found myself in a conversation with the MP of the G17. There was an interesting discussion about the ability of this government in general, and that was why I put my card on late. To the surprise of most of you, representatives of the ruling parliamentary group and the opposition have agreed on the level of competence of the government. People's MPs get a name. When you spend a long time in the congregation, you can say what you want without causing a replica. You'll learn that over time, no problem. People's MPs are still getting it. Can I start with the amendment? The People's Messenger casts a theme. The theme of this session of ours is the insurance law. The amendment I have submitted is in line with the previous amendment, therefore, concerns Article 82(3), where the words "National Bank of Serbia" are replaced by the words "Minister in charge of finance affairs". I hope the minister doesn't have the same explanation, that he doesn't have enough skills for these kinds of jobs, because I deeply believe he does. Therefore, at least that explanation will not be able to pass in the rejection of this amendment. So, according to a solution proposed in the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by Parliament's Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to oversee the performance of the work, according to the DS parliamentary group's proposal, the agency is carrying out, and the content and method of passing insurance intervention exams is prescribed by the minister. Even if you stay, which most obviously will, under the provision - the National Bank of Serbia, it should be arranged regardless of what you will give to the National Bank of Serbia in charge and thus create an opportunity for it to run the country's economic policy completely uncontrollably. It may seem to you that good personal relations with the current governor can produce a positive result. The moment a government policy relies on good personal relations between the governor and the finance minister and the prime minister, the system is at risk of cancer. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about the law in principle. So this kind of solution is dangerous to the system in general. That is why you need to make a solution that, if you remain stubborn under the provision - NBS, everywhere and in every place for the huge financial market of insurance and reassurance, you will arrange a special way of controlling the NBS, which will create additional difficulties, which will bring me back to the beginning of the amendments. So it's much better to set up an obstacle high and get into control with the agency, not the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2808	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? If you could convince me that you're in the O.R., and you are in the O.R., go ahead. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2809	Without this conviction, I will try to convince the MPs that this is a solution set out in Article 82(3) is practically unsustainable. Under some conditions, it is only possible in part of monetary policy that the National Bank of Serbia has so much authority to prescribe everything in the monetary sphere. But when it comes to financial business, financial system, financial discipline, or here in particular, since I see that you force this solution to have the NBS authorized to control, control and issue permits, approval and authority, then I must warn you that it was once a practice to normatively selectively divide with classical state authority. So it happened that in the financial sphere, the federal government prescribed conditions and ways, and thus defined the behaviour of some entities, and it was authorized by the NBS to apply it and to control it. Consequently, since this corresponds to our constitutional system, Article 82(3) should read if this solution is adopted on the NBS - the Government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes a closer content and method of passing the exams referred to in point 3 of Article 2 of this Law. There is no possibility that such great powers can be given to one organ, even if it is the NBS. Because if that were the case, then this law could be reduced to 50 members. It would be enough to tell what founding capital is, who controls everything else to be left to the Ministry, the National Bank and the Government. No constitution allows such a thing. And if anyone thinks you're going to meet some future changes to the Constitution and some new constitutional solutions, they're wrong. This way, only cements a monopoly in the NBS, which, unfortunately, will, with the logistics of the Ministry of Finance, keep all cash flows completely under its control. And when you say "control," then you can say "free" and "possibility" in abuses. A suitable ground for abuse always exists when you give unlimited authority to someone. This view practically gives unlimited authority to the NBS. I know 126 cards solve everything, but be assured, it only solves temporarily. I'm talking more about the consequences that can arise and the problems that the future government will have. You know for yourself, what one does, which is hard for smart people to fix afterwards. We must not break down our state system, and you see, these laws are entering into the content and essence of some bodies, in their affairs, in their jurisdiction, in their powers, and in practice the decommissioning of the state structure. I'm afraid that some future government in a few months can only wait for the ruins, like one of the governors a few years ago, or last year he waited for the ruins at the National Bank of Serbia. And the time of black socks and long weapons has long passed, never again in Serbia will it appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2810	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Goran Paunovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2811	The last time has come that radicals have begun to quote EU directives. There is a small problem: the directives you quote are from 1973 and 1979. Look at the newer 2002 directive. How can we trust you when you refer to the Constitution, when you refer to directives that are over 30 years old? How can I trust the previous speaker not to call on the Turkish constitution of 1839 when he seeks constitutional basis for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2812	Replica, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2813	As a representative of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2814	Mr. Mirovic is authorized for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2815	Not only am I authorized, but I'm with an SRS expert team, with one serious...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2816	Mr. Mirovic, forgive me, I am obliged to inform about what has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Professional teams aren't regulated by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2817	I'm giving you some further explanation in a broader context, so I hope you understand me. So, I've worked with one expert team and a group of experts from the SRS, real experts, and it's about university professors, and not like you, experts from the train station, etc., it doesn't exist, of course. I have entered all the norms of this law and it has surprised you, you have to admit. We have examined the legislation of EU countries, to show you that our expert team is stronger than yours, because your expert team is preparing a law that calls for EU legislation, and the solutions in the law are not compatible with the EU countries' solutions. And to my questions, as you can see, sir, I repeat, Minister Dinkic has no answers. I asked him to give me more than four countries where the National Bank, the central bank, is monitoring, and he can't do that, because there aren't any of those countries; and I asked him many other things. From the insurance law to the future, all of our expert teams will play a game with all of your so-called. Expert teams and these games will always win. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2818	Can I help you, Mr. Krassic, on the same amendment? I would ask the MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure and give their identification cards. It doesn't apply to you, Mr. Krassic, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2819	President, you came when I finished. Let me tell you, I've been reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and I've already discussed the amendment. I refer to article 100 because the president of the G17 Group of MPs plus said one sentence. You have changed places, so you have not heard, so you have not been able to react; it is a great insult to the People's Assembly which He has declared. Replicating the SRS, although no one has even called it, he said, "How can we trust you when you call on the Constitution?" Please, it is a very dangerous statement, because if MPs in the National Assembly deny the existence of the Constitution, then what to expect from an ordinary citizen who is faced with some real life problem, he knows to say - no matter what law, whatever constitution, the MP sees - we do not need the Constitution. If the National Assembly would like to, and is obliged, to preserve dignity, I must inform you that it is the first instance to preserve the constitutionality of a country. Those who sit in this hall who feel that the Constitution is something that does not commit must either change their attitude or not to deal with this business or if they feel so personally that they tell their wives and children at home, but not from this pay phone. We need to be clear, this constitution was a framework for someone to be an MP, that constitution was also a framework for sovereignty, that constitution is a framework for what is being done today, no matter how anyone interprets it, how anyone experiences it, but it can't be said, in the absence of any more normal arguments for his political position -- I don't agree with the position of the SRS, because it's based on the Constitution. It's really devastating, and I'd ask you, when you check in, this pay phone is dangerous, the stenogram is dangerous, all of this is going into history. I am now, though, and it is no wonder why you have the view that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2820	I thank you, Mr. Krasic, but I just didn't realize, I'm sorry, since I wasn't there when it happened, you're asking to make a statement to the Parliament? No, I don't. Anyone else want a word? Proposer's representative, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2821	Just to satisfy the curiosity of one MP: 39 countries in the world have integrated the supervisory of banks and insurance companies. When this law is passed we will be the 40th country. As for your count, I won't comment, 39 countries in the world have integrated supervisory and banking and insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2822	Replica, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2823	So, Mr. Dinkic, you keep talking about agencies that conduct integrated supervision of banks and insurance houses. You're talking about 39 countries where, I believe, that's the case, but this isn't about it. You obviously, as someone said, missed the subject. We're talking surveillance here, exclusively surveillance of the activities of the insurance companies. We're still far from that integrated system. We will only have it when we follow the experiences of those countries that were once at the beginning in the system of development of insurance houses and supervision of them and when those steps they went to were us, not by including a People's Bank that really (speaking professionally, and I am expert in saying that because I graduated from the Faculty of Economics and worked at the Ministry of Finance) has nothing to do with insurance as some kind of special economic area or some sector of economy, so to speak conditionally. So, one is integrated supervision of a special agency that controls at the same time (I believe, in a large number of countries) banks and insurance companies, and another is the question of whether in the world the National Bank controls insurance companies. I'm telling you it only seems in four countries. That's for sure. I don't want to bet with you, because you're the finance minister, and you shouldn't be saying that, about betting. Besides, when it's on the agenda of the gambling bill, then maybe we'll bet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2824	Thank you. The word is Mr. Baralic, so Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2825	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed journalists, supervision of companies and insurance companies, over insurance as such, obviously has driven a great deal of interest from fellow Members of Parliament, and we could guess why. It is possible that someone has an honest intention to clarify or improve the way this seems. Some of my colleagues were the great speaker of some insurance companies, and it's not illegal, although it's not the best thing to do here. I would say that there are two reasons why it is important to accurately prescribe how this area is being monitored, first of all because a huge number of citizens and a huge number of economic operators are interested in carrying out this surveillance. And in both categories, there's one part where they can't influence, where they can't willingly commit. So they're legally required to secure vehicles or something. Then it's important that the state accurately prescribes the way this surveillance is conducted. There were claims that when the government forms an organ that does so, it is an independent body, and when the National Bank does so, it is not. I want to say that whatever government it is and whoever it is, whenever it forms such a body, it's just as independent as the independent media that is financed by local self-government, cities, republics and autonomous provinces or their mecens and patrons. There is no degree of independence when something is prescribed by the government, because the government has precise interests that are not always in line with the general interest of all citizens. Sometimes they are linked to the narrow political interests of those who make up the government. There were calls to the constitution, with one or more connotations. So that we don't leave here without mentioning three important things and in some sense pliming with colleagues who talked about it, talking about a constitution in a country where there was no constitutional court, in which the Law on Privatization was passed against the provisions of that constitution and in which the Law on the election of the President of the Republic was brought against the provisions of the Constitution, could be interpreted in one way or another; who wants to do so without respecting the constitution must have the power, political will and consent to change the constitution, so that it can pass laws that are then derived from the desired constitution, and while there is one that exists, it should be respected. Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2826	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2827	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by Mrs. Gordana Komic remains consistent with what we represented in the principle debate, which is that the system of supervision, namely the type of supervision in the proposed law, is not good. However, a very interesting controversy has been opened on this amendment. First we heard something that certainly wouldn't be right if it were true, which is that the Government of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, is unable to form an agency. If that is true, it is an extremely high degree of incompetence, as the agency should only deal with the affairs that the Ministry of Finance Act is designed to do anyway. All this means is that the Ministry of Finance is unable to deal with these affairs. It is the first quite serious problem, which I expect is, in fact, the result of the atmosphere and that it is said in the heat of the discussion. Something else has been particularly intrigued, I must confess and offended. We've been talking here for days about surveillance and saying there are three. In fact, a total of four is mentioned. One is the Ministry of Finance, we've already talked about it, the other is an agency that would be independent and independent in dealings entrusted to it by law, and the third is integrated (we defined it as third) supervision. But the finance minister said -- no, it's not integrated surveillance, it's the third central bank. Then we made it clear that on the one hand we had integrated surveillance, on the other hand the central bank, and let's not confuse those concepts. Then the MPs here, more of us, which in the principle search, what are they asking today -- well, where is the kind of system that is proposed to us and what results did it give? In addition to the theoretical arguments, each of us, in representing his system, gave arguments in practice, or called for parallel practice. We say that what we propose exists in some countries in transition, so we said Slovenia, Hungary, so we said that it exists in some European countries such as Finland, etc. Some other colleagues representing another system say it exists in France, Russia, etc. But we asked each other a question -- the government is proposing something new, where is there what the government is proposing? We get the answer that integrated surveillance exists in 39 countries. We know that there is integrated surveillance in many countries, that's a higher degree, a degree from this previous level. That's not at all controversial. The question remains in which countries are controlled by the central bank and the question remains whether it was a lapus. I consider this an insult, because for days we've been dealing with this law and then someone comes out and thinks we don't understand so much, and in answer to one question, that we have answered something we haven't even asked. I don't think that's correct. That upsets me a lot. This discussion in parliament really doesn't lead to anything good. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, Ms. Comic, all of us, even if you stay with this system that you are proposing - which we ask you to reveal to us, colleague Mirovic has discovered several countries, but we would like to hear what is in our environment – we would like you to adopt the amendment, Mrs. Comic. Because there is no need to exempt the possibility of regulations from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, if the Ministry of Finance already admits that it is not able to do what the Constitution of the Ministry of Justice has done, and it has been able, with previous ministers, we have had governments before, no minister has said that they can't do it. (President: Time. No one can convince me that the Ministry of Finance is unable to prescribe these conditions that we are talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2828	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2829	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs escorted me to a pay phone with a comment - why do you explain when they won't accept? This shows that there is a lack of meaning for what congregations serve, and MPs earn that they know it from the previous term. Successful people differ from those who fail by learning from their own and others’ mistakes, and failures learn nothing from their own or from others. So, the amendment refers to Article 93rd position 3 -- the words "The National Bank of Serbia" are replaced by the word "Government". According to the amendment proposed in the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, the supervision of the performance of the insurance activities is carried out by the agencies, and we believe that closer conditions for issuing a permit to carry out insurance and reinsurance operations are prescribed by the government. The quality of this proposed solution, if it were not to be boastful but willing to read what is proposed, is that you can stubbornly remain in your position but as Government, as Ministry of Finance, you can leave yourself the right to conditions and closer conditions for issuing an insurance and reinsurance permit is prescribed by the Government. Through one drastic example, I can tell you what the consequences will be if you do not accept such an amendment. If we stay as a Assembly in order to separate insurance and reinsurance, life and non-life, which is easier to do in the field, but insurance and reinsurance are practically difficult, the National Bank will be in a position to prescribe conditions for issuing insurance and reinsurance permits. These conditions will have no one to meet, there will be no one to control why they are not being met and you will have one chaos on the financial market instead of a good idea, which I have no doubt at all, which was the legislator when he proposed this law, to introduce order, supervision, that the increase in censorship knows who is involved in insurance and that all this goes to the benefit of the overall financial market in Serbia. Consequently, it is a message about the country's political stability, because in a country where you have a quality insurance system, verifiable outside, you also have foreign investments, you have increased confidence in that country as a system that needs to accept foreign investment. If you remain in the position of the National Bank, you will have a situation that unfortunately one good intention has not led to any results.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2830	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Mr. Djidic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2831	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment I have submitted to Article 107 of Article 5, is in direct connection with the already submitted amendment to article 18, which was tabled by Member Leila Ruzdic, as well as with other members to whom the amendments were submitted by MPs from the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic. I remind you that the essence of the amendment to article 18 is that the supervision of the performance of the work is carried out by an independent agency, not by the National Bank, as it stands in the bill. With this in mind, I propose that Article 107 of Article 5, in order to be in line with the tabled amendment, instead of "The National Bank of Serbia" stands for "The Government of the Republic of Serbia", and the position would read - the government of the Republic of Serbia prescribes closer to the criteria and method of calculating technical reserves. All amendments submitted by MPs from the Democratic Party list - Boris Tadic aim to improve the text of the law, bring the provisions of the law closer to European standards. Today, we have heard from MPs of the ruling coalition advocating European Serbia, for Serbia in Europe, so if it is real and not just declared, I expect that they will support these amendments, vote in the day to vote for them and thus bring Serbia closer to Europe. If they do so, MPs from the Democratic Party list -- Boris Tadic -- will vote in favour of the bill in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2832	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (President: Excuse me, just a moment. Mr. Stamenkovic, it's enough that you're not in the O.R., you don't have to throw yet. Be kind). Since today we have had a subject of who is present and who is not present in the hall and indeed the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has warned that there is a lot of irresponsibility about the presence of parliamentarians, I am also asking, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to establish a quorum for the conduct of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2834	I ask all MPs to insert their MP cards to determine the quorum. Mr. Markovic asked you to insert his card after he sought the quorum. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have tabled to Article 113 of Article 6 is in direct connection with the amendment to Article 18, which is obviously a key amendment to the insurance bill. There was a lot of argument as to why the proposed amendment to article 18 was a fundamental improvement of this law and the Democratic Party parliamentary group actually used an argument to support the submission of such an amendment. The amendment, which I have submitted, reads that in Article 113, in the position of the 6th word "The National Bank of Serbia", is replaced by the word "Minister", which refers to the close authority of the minister to adopt regulations establishing the free funds of technical reserves in companies operating with insurance and monitoring and determining the liquidity of these companies. This is all in order to increase insurance security and it is good that other places in the bill take care of it. Mr. Minister said that raising a capital censorship is also in that direction, but, on the other hand, what has been said several times, and it is not too much to stress, it is not good that the National Bank of Serbia, as a central bank that has legal powers, takes over the activities of the insurance industry. We are therefore forced to amend the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Thus, it was not expected that the National Bank of Serbia, as the central bank, would be in charge of what should be dealt with, conduct and control tasks of insurance companies too. It was not quite a convincing argument that the legislator of Mr Dinkic's law suggested that this was the best solution. It's simply an argument used that we're not staffed or that it would cost us extra if an independent agency were to oversee the insurance business. On the other hand, it has been estimated that in five to ten years we will be trained to be in one integrated variant (if I understand the minister well when he explained the law on the first day) the tasks of the supervision of banks and society dealing with the work of insurance, let me say, unify in one agency. As a result, our forecasts on the approximation of European laws and the entry into the European Union at the moment are pessimistic, which is not good for this government, which has not given a very encouraging argument that we will go to Europe for accelerated reforms. Also, what has been said several times, that trusting the National Bank and running economic policy is not good. It's beyond what needs to be the central bank of a state. I don't see any reason why at this point we couldn't go to meet what European standards are -- the formation of an independent agency that could, in any case, also accept the tasks of supervisory over the business of banks and the introduction of order, even stronger order, into the financial market in our country. I think this time, if we don't accept the amendments that are filed in that direction that the supervision and surveillance of the insurance business is done in the agency, we're missing the opportunity to make one shift in the formation of a stable financial market and thus show that we can do something that's a more courageous step than when we say we trust everything in the central bank. I don't want to think that the finance ministry and Minister Dinkic had the motive to further define the financial lobby and all financial flows in Serbia currently controlled by one party. I just think it's a bad assessment, a lack of courage for an independent agency to be entrusted with such important business at the moment and to bring order to the financial market. Of course insurance business is very important in that sphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2836	Anyone else want a word? Proposer representative - Finance Minister Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2837	I must tell the MP who last discussed not to come forward here on behalf of the party, I come forward on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to express my great satisfaction that there are really no serious objections to this law, because almost an hour and a half are being discussed whether the National Bank of Serbia or the Agency should exercise supervision, and this is about the very same thing, where the National Bank of Serbia has a mild advantage, which is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the National Bank of Serbia be supervisory. What today was the remarks of some MPs, which could have been led by a more serious discussion, but apparently there was no will, is why we separated life insurance and nonlife insurance. It has been correctly noted that the European Union Directives provide for the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance and that the same legal person cannot carry out jobs both, i.e. such an option, but provided that there is a single administration. Since our Company Act does not allow for two separate administrations to exist in one legal person, life insurance and non-life insurance business must also be separated. I must say that in Serbia right now, unfortunately, because insurance business, which is due to poor previous law, is very underdeveloped. All 1% of the total activity of the current insurance companies is life insurance. So, rarely does life insurance. Almost negligible is the number of those who have provided life for insurance companies. With this law, we want to give the base and the possibility that our insurance companies can start dealing with life insurance. However, for those companies already carrying out both life insurance and non-life insurance, a transitional deadline is given until 31 December 2005 to separate these jobs. We think that this deadline of a year and a half is appropriate and that all serious insurance companies will be able to adapt to that deadline and then meet this condition of the law. There were also some MPs concerned that raising a capital censorship for the work of insurance companies could lead to the elimination of some smaller companies. I must say that all insurance companies, whether they're big or small, who adjust their business according to the law, have nothing to fear. This transitional adjustment period will last for a year and a half. In those years and a half, by 31 December 2005, all serious insurance companies can adapt to the conditions laid down in the law. I must say that the newly established census, with this rise, will be lower than in developed European countries. So, it's not too harsh to raise a census. Also, I'm going to list two insurance houses that are currently filling that censorship. In a very simple way, by turning the reserves into capital and only with one show of action, eight more insurance companies can fill this censorship. So a year and a half is how long enough for them to do it. Then, after converting the reserves into capital and with two shares, nine other insurance companies will meet this condition, and the remaining 16 insurance companies, far from this censorship, can give up certain types of insurance and qualify for only one type of insurance or can integrate with some other insurance companies. So, in the next year and a half, there will certainly be profiling insurance companies on our market, but this will allow citizens who are insured by insurance companies to have the security to compensate for the damage that eventually occurs if an unforeseen circumstance occurs. The problem with the current insurance companies was that they only formally guaranteed insurance. In reality, they had no money to pay off the damage, precisely because of the low capital censorship. That is why this new law is one big step towards seriousising the entire insurance market, and this is especially because the central bank - the National Bank. Serbia is supervising insurance companies. Just remember what happened in October 2000. Ambassador Mirovic or MP Krasic, I cannot remember, said how much money was found; reportedly, they are afraid they will not find chaos after this government. Let's just remind ourselves how much money was in the National Bank of Serbia's cash after the SRS ended its rule: only $360m, and now it has 3.5 billion. So, gentlemen, radicals, you're not afraid of chaos. You've made chaos, and this government, which doesn't make up just G17 plus, which is made up of both DSS and SPO and NS, which is unique, will allow far more serious and insurance sectors, as it did with banks. Just to remind you, in your day, no one was saving in the banks, on the contrary, about 9 billion German marks of the savings roles of the citizens were frozen. In December, the National Bank of Serbia set out to pay the stakes. Today there are about 1.3 billion euros in our banks. So, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, this law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia will certainly introduce order in the field of insurance, as order has been introduced in the field of banking. Those whose order is not in the interest, who are now not in the hall, of course are against this law, but to all those citizens who want order, prosperity and better standards, the law will bring about a better one. I am convinced that most MPs of this assembly will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-10-0.u2838	There are no more speakers under this amendment. You have accepted Mr Dragan Marsican's resignation as Minister of Business in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are scheduled for the National Assembly to determine without a search that a member of the government has resigned and is not to decide. According to Article 202(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia find that Dragan Marscanin resigned as Minister of Business in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We interrupt the work of the Assembly, time is up. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 156 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanisa Stevanović, Vladimir Jovanovic and Goran Ilic. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Blagica Kostic, elected from the Serbian Renewal Movement – Nova Serbia – Vuk Draskovic – Velimir Ilic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Blagica Kostic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask her to take part in the work of the National Assembly. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE OSIGURANJ (exist in particular) The amendment was submitted by the MP Slobodan Vučković to Article 114. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Mr. Mirovic has the word.
