ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs Goran Rakovic, Zoran Micovic, Boris Tadic, Milos Jevtic, Bosko Ristic, Dragor Hiber, Sava Urosevic, Goran Jakšić, Gašo Knezevic, Vojkan Tomic, Miroslav Jankovic, Goran Paunović and Radoslav Jovic. In the morning, the delay was announced by Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in the conduct of Public FUNCTIONs (continuation) The word is made by the Minister of Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Lončar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you today at the very beginning of the session of the government's position. In fact, at the meeting of the Committee of Justice and the State Administration, on behalf of the legislator, I took advantage of the opportunity to declare the amendments that have been tabled these days on the proposal for this law. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the government has accepted a total of 18 amendments. So, in the opening part of the debate on the draft conflict of interest law, I said that this should be ours and your bill and that on behalf of the promoter, I would accept all those amendments, regardless of which parliamentary groups they came from, which, by their quality, will contribute to improving the text of the bill itself. That's exactly what I did. I would inform you that there have been accepted amendments from all parliamentary groups; regardless of the fact that I have not taken account of which parliamentary groups a concrete amendment is coming from, that I only know that of the total number accepted from the SRS three amendments, from the Democratic Party three amendments, the SPS two amendments, the G17 plus one amendment, the DSS nine amendments, and that is 18 amendments. If you want to, and to get to know you, 21 percent of the total number has been accepted. I think this fact also speaks for enough that this should be a common text of the government as a promoter and you MPs, since corruption, related to conflict of interest, is a common evil. I want to introduce you to the essential things that have been accepted. The concept of the supervisory authority of the implementation of this law has been accepted, which is that there is one committee and that of the Republic Committee. Many of the arguments that we have had to hear in the discussion held these days have been appreciated, for the sake of efficiency in implementing this law on the one hand, and on the other hand, the remarks relating to money are necessary for the implementation of this law. So, instead of the number of people we should be paying out of the budget, which would work in the province and local committees, there are now only nine people who will be paid to implement this law. As for the objection of a conceptual nature, that this law should be extended to those officials who are headed by public institutions, this was unacceptable to us, not because officials at the head of many public institutions in Serbia should not fall under the law of conflict of interest, but not under this law, but another law that will regulate the issue of conflict of interest of officials in public institutions. When, in a very short time, we propose this law, we will make sure that this Republic's committee can also take care of the conflict of interest in this number of groups of state officials. And if that's not possible in practice, then in this law we're going to propose a little bit of different bodies to worry about conflict of interest in this numerous group of officials. As for the judges and the objection that the members of this Republic's committee should also be brought in by the judges, the government has taken into account, above all, the recommendation of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, which tells us to abstain from the additional involvement of judges, even in the event that their participation in the work of individual bodies contributes to their independence. So that is the only and only reason why judges are not members of the Republic Committee that care about the implementation of this law. So much, and I'd be happy to answer some more questions if necessary. I hope that you will respect the government's positive gesture and that through today's debate you will allow Serbia to get its conflict of interest law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1778	The title above article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Momir Markovic. (Employee Vladan Vukicevic: No discussion on the amendment to Article 8 has been concluded) People's MP, I apologize, so let's finish discussing the previous amendment. Here you go. Excuse me, the service has informed me that the debate on this amendment has been concluded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8. The proposal for a conflict of interest law refers to the transfer of management rights. In fact, I believe that this law sort of determines the quality and selects the functionors. Knowing that Serbia is in transition and that most of its economy will be a private economy tomorrow, I think this Article 8 is conducting a selection of officials and that in some ways it determines one negative selection of future officials. Why and for what reasons? I am sure and we all know that in Serbia today there are enormously poor and enormously wealthy people. Those who have large companies will certainly not want to be officials tomorrow, but they will certainly determine politics in Serbia in one indirect way. However, no successful director of a private company will want to tomorrow and will not agree to be a functioner, and that it must transfer its management right to a person and make that person a connected face tomorrow; it will not pass on for any more reason, because, of course, each company has its own business secret and has some characteristics, which is once again a business secret, or has some technology in the process of production. Knowing what the salaries of officials in Serbia are, I am absolutely sure that no quality director, who has a quality firm, will want to deal with politics and to transfer his rights to a connected person and risk his company being in some way damaged or extinguished. For these reasons, I am sure that this Article 8 will make a negative selection of officials in the future, which is not good for both Serbia and all future governments. That is why I believe that this Article 8 of the conflict of interest law is excessive, and of course this member will in some way be associated with Article 12. I personally believe that this Article 8 should be deleted for those reasons by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1780	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regardless of the adoption of a number of amendments, we of the SRS consider this bill to be still an amorphous, inapplicable and still need to be corrected by amendments. I have submitted an amendment, in the name of the SRS, to replace the title above Article 9 with the words "public official"; after Article 1, to add a new position 2, which reads: "To perform the duties set out in Article 1 of this Article, a public official shall not have the right to pay, compensation, reward or receive a gift, except for the right to compensation for travel expenses and other expenses outside the place where he performs his public office". If this amendment is adopted, you will avoid what the previous DOS government had, that public officials appear on several boards of directors at the posts of the president or members of the boards of directors, because they will certainly not be grabbed unless they are paid. We had a situation where the President of the Management Board of Telekom received four parliamentary salaries in Telekom as chairman of the Management Board. This time, if this amendment adopts this threat disappears, it is deleted. Furthermore, in order to become new sections 3 and 4, and after the new heading 4, to add item 5, which reads: "If a official has been elected, appointed or appointed to perform another public function, he shall be obliged to notify the committee within five days." It is normal for the board to be informed if one of the public officials is elected to another function. I think this amendment should be adopted, because the situation will clear up completely, so we won't have any pressure on the boards of directors, on board members, because then there's no compensation that actually draws them. There will be people on boards who will actually do the job, and they are already getting paid at the public office.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1782	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Novakovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1783	The Honorable Presidency, my ladies Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 9, as legally possible, because I believe that conflict of interest does not always result in itself and does not always produce any material consequences. It seems to me that we've dropped what's called influence here, and that's the part that's very difficult to regulate legally and can certainly contribute to conflict of interest. That is why I have submitted an amendment prohibiting the public official from being the director, deputy or assistant director, member of the board of directors or supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions, undertakings or any other legal person with the participation of State capital except where the law or other special regulation is prescribed. The law proposed today is essentially paliative, because it represents only one segment of the entire body of anti-corruption laws that we have not yet passed. I believe that at this moment, in our reality, it is necessary to prevent the very impression of a potential conflict of interest. So that is the only way we can start working to restore trust in the impartiality of the government and by adopting this amendment, we would certainly contribute to the expansion of democratic political culture. Various systems are known to prevent conflicts of interest. Let me remind you of one, which is very indicative, abandoned in the middle of the 19th century, which is the Spoils system. It's a system after every election to replace public officials with its supporters. It certainly reminds me of something. Two systems have been accepted in the world today, so-called. Merit system, it is a system of accepting public functions and determining public officials according to abilities. It usually refers to lower public officials, lower positions. The Trast system, the system of trust issues, which refers to the highest public officials, is essentially the basis for the amendment's proposal, as legally possible, and my proposal and appeal to vote and to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1784	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ksenija Milivojevic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1785	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, just one note on this amendment. An interesting thing has happened, and that is that the Legislative Committee has declared this amendment legally impossible, which is very interesting, given that it is the same as in the previous amendment, so the amendment submitted by my colleague Nikola Novakovic. So it's just a different formulation and I'll read the simple notes for it. So, the amendment that I submitted reads: Article 9(1) deletes the words "more than one", and after saying "with the participation of state capital" is added "except in cases where it is prescribed by law or by other regulation". When we do this, we actually get the following text: "The functioner must not be the director, deputy or assistant director, member of the board of directors or supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions, undertakings or any other legal person with the participation of state capital, except when prescribed by law or other special regulation", which is contained in the previous amendment. In order to avoid confusion, I will withdraw my amendment, although I must point out, it is still unclear how it can be legally impossible. So I'm withdrawing the amendment because it's actually the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1786	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1787	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the draft law provides that it is possible for the official to be a member of only one administrative or supervisory board of public undertakings and so on. We think it's absolutely off. A functioner should not be a member of any public board; for what is actually achieved by such a bill? That means I am the Minister of Energy and I can be the chairman of the board of directors of NIS or EPS, and why I should be a member of other boards of directors; I am in fact culminating functions in one of the most dangerous places in society, and this is allowed here and it is absolutely unacceptable. In this respect, the amendment states that the official cannot be a member or chair of the board of directors of a public undertaking or a public institution and so on. So there's just the basis for every corruption and potential for abuse. We disfellowshipped the Messengers of the people, for the messengers of the people were directly chosen. They enjoy the direct trust of the people. And, public enterprises belong to everyone, not just the government, they belong to the state, and the state and government to the people, and it's not the same, and so to the people, I agree. Therefore, the National Assembly is an organ that enjoys general national trust, enjoys sovereignty and I think that MPs, as such, do not fall under this law at all, and this because, by law, counterpart Krasic from this pay phone pointed out that there is no constitutional basis in many issues related to this law, especially with regard to the MPs. I will now quote to you Article 73(10) of the Constitution of Serbia, which says that the National Assembly is choosing and resolving officials, therefore, officials, and they belong to another category of MPs, but point 11) says that "The National Assembly is controlling the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law." This bill introduces direct control over the National Assembly by a person who has absolutely nothing to do with authority and with the will of the citizens. We'll talk about it more about some other amendments, and so far so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1788	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1789	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions and suggested that in the first position after the word "other legal person with" add the word "majority" and the rest of the text remains unchanged. I understand the proposal's motive to include this law as many officials as possible, but if this suggestion is not accepted, a large number of officials who are otherwise directors, assistants and deputies in companies where the majority share capital is, I say, will come into a moral dilemma whether to continue to perform that function or to deal with some other function. I think the other members of the law have quite well regulated how to control the conflict of interest and that this proposal of mine could only fix things. I hope there's gonna be a little more thinking about it, and we wouldn't be making things worse anyway, and that's exactly the kind of situation that's in big companies where they're mostly officials. It does not matter whether they are of local, federal, or republican importance and will thus enable them to deal with both jobs. In order not to go out again, I mean, in Article 10 of this law, I just did a text repair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1790	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1791	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to point out in a few sentences that the issue of this provision is that the official must not be a member of the board of directors or supervisory board of public undertakings, institutions and businesses or other legal persons with the involvement of the state capital. That means any involvement in government capital. This participation of government capital in a company can be one percent, it can be 5%, 40%, and it can be over 51%. I think there is a need to make a difference here between the companies in which the majority of state capital is, and therefore there is a logic to prohibit a functioner from being a member of the board of directors, director or board member in such undertakings, but companies where minority state capital is essentially private. They're basically private, and this so-called. State capital in such enterprises represents someone, I mean a person who is elected under a special procedure by someone who owns that partial or minority state capital. I'm here to point to a problem that arises in the privatisation process. You have this situation: 70% of the capital in the privatisation process is sold, and 30% of the capital belongs to employees as a rule. When it happens, and it is not a rare case, that these 30% cannot be allocated to employees in these companies, nor to former employees, and the remaining 5% of that capital, that capital is transferred to the Action Fund and thus the state becomes co-owner in that economic operator with 5%. Now you come up with an absurd situation that you forbid a functioner from the company to have its own actions, because the state now has the 5% in all of this, and the fate of those 5% is such that, in the follow-up of the Action Fund, these actions will be sold and become private. So I'm suggesting that there's too wide a circle of people who can't be something, and who's too broadly gripping a weak grip, say my Lozniks. It is simply impossible to control all of this and it is impossible to bring into the same level of enterprises where the majority of state capital and state capital companies are represented only symbolically. So here we suggested that instead of saying "with the participation of state capital", it stands "with the majority state capital" and thus this de facto problem is essentially and formally solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1792	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic suggested adding a new Article 9a after article 9. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1793	Dear colleagues and colleagues, by amendment to Article 9, I suggested introducing a new member of the 9a. which reads: "The functioner shall not represent natural or legal persons in front of an institution in which he has performed his public office for a period of one year at the end of public office". I think that this solution, i.e. an explanation for such a solution, is clear to all of us and that most of our life and professional practices recognize it, and are recognised by other countries in their legislation. I think it's very important that a certain time after a function can't be done a job that is related to a previous function. That this is so important as I suppose we are told by Canadian legislation, English and many others, and we have such a solution in our Law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1794	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above the article 10th and Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. In short, I think the title above this article should be deleted. In fact, from both a lexic and a legal-theory point of view, this title complicates the entire legal text. It seems to me that this title is more for student textbooks than for one legal text. For these reasons, I advocate that the title above article 10 be deleted. On the other hand, I advocate that in Article 10, the word "execution" is replaced by the word "reporting", also for the reasons that I have said forward, because in principle the duty is done, and the function is performed. For these reasons, I believe that the correction and change of these things would be precious. I'm putting up with this amendment from a broader point of view. I don't agree with one general concept of access to this bill. I can't agree with the fact that the bill says it's better to have him than not to have him. We are Parliament here, we are legislators and legislators. I believe, for these reasons, that precision and waist should dominate. From all of this, it is clear that the legal concepts here are very questionable. I cannot accept it for another reason, because it is necessary to prepare in advance a text that is adequate and appropriate. I agree with the amendment being corrected, and from that point of view, I suggest that this amendment be adopted as well. If we look at the whole legal arrangement, I can say that this legal text is a legal conglomerate of ethics, codes of conduct, procedural legal, material legal and sanctioned legal arrangements. Now that we have that in mind, I don't think the procedural law is adequate. Here's what looks at these inadequacies. I agree with persons who are actively legitimate, but I ask the question of what is the matter with public consultation and what about anonymous applications. Public conversation is an institute that has come to life in criminal and legal theory. The question is, what if public opinion, journalists, media and everyone else finds it appropriate to write about irregularities in public functions? Who, in that case, is going to start the procedure if an active legitimate person from article 24 is silent? There's no point in the law about that. Also, I'd like to point out one more thing, which is the public or the secrecy of the procedure. All procedures in our legislation are, as a rule, public and secret only when it is excluded by law or by special decision. In this case, if we analyse the measures that can be said, we can conclude that the procedure is secret, but on the other hand, in Article 24(4) of this proposal, it states that the General Administrative Procedure Act is applicable, and that the General Administrative Procedure Act says some more things, that the procedure is public and can only be classified if it is excluded. Furthermore, a principle question arises about the defender, who has the right to defend himself. The General Administrative Procedure Act only speaks of a power of attorney, and that the power of attorney may be any person who is able to do business, and nowhere does he matter about lawyers as defenders. I also want to point out the fact that in this whole system of laws there is no adequate way to clarify the right to legal remedy, which is the constitutional right of every citizen. Does a committee official have the right to a legal remedy? The General Administrative Procedure Act has established the right to legal remedy, but this is not the case. This is a two-stage principle, with the possibility of having a administrative dispute under the Law on Administrative Disputes. Under the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Supreme Court of Serbia decides. So that right is also disabled. I propose that all amendments proposed by the SRS be adopted, as well as amendments to other policy options that are appropriate. The SRS is trying to correct what can be corrected. That's why I came out and answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1796	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The government has accepted this amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1797	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the continuation of the story of article 9, with the fact that I now point out here that the MPs of article 1 of Article 10 are equalizing themselves with the officials of Article 9. I would remind you that over the past 10 years, a large number of enterprises have been privatised under then applicable law. At that time, workers had the right to acquire shares in these companies up to 60%. The rest up to 100%, so up to the full value of capital, is normally transferred to the pension fund, to the labour market fund, to some other funds, such as health care, etc. The state itself has become the owner of a part of the capital in these companies. And as long as the state and those funds that are the owners of actions, and therefore the works of management rights in these companies, do not decide to sell those actions, these companies will be with the participation of state capital, and the MPs working in these companies will be limited and even with the officials to whom these restrictions are essentially related. So here, too, we suggested not to stand -- with the participation of state capital, but -- with the participation of the majority state capital. That's the point. If the state has majority capital, then it is basically a state-owned company with private equity participation. If there is a minority package of shares, then it is essentially a private company with a participation in state capital, in which it is managed in a manner determined by the company's acts, with the participation of whoever represents state capital. An MP is not a functionary couple of excellencies. He's not a functioner. We are here, after all, the people's representatives, who have been elected in the general elections. So we were chosen by the people, and the officials were elected either by the Assembly, or by the Government, or by the authorities. I don't think it's so good, it's not practical to even the MPs with the officials in this section relating to Article 10(1). I think it makes sense to insert these words -- with the majority share of government capital, and then that problem just solves itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1798	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1799	I was just talking about the MPs. The law itself in several places notes that the official and the MP are not the same and then makes some exceptions; and here he has done so, made it possible for MPs to perform certain management functions, i.e. to exercise their management rights, as members of the board of directors, etc. Only one small mistake was made here - no mention of independent actions, independent businessmen, i.e. entrepreneurs, lawyers, public notebooks, witches, translators, etc. They do not exercise any governing rights in their business, so it should first simply indicate that MPs and committees can continue their entrepreneurial and independent activities. I feel so much like this member needs to be completed, or I think he's just fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1800	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment to Article 11, and I have suggested that the word "functioner" be replaced by the words "public official", that the word "execution" be replaced by the word "instruction", "instituted or named" be replaced by the words "chosen, appointed or appointed" and the word "author" deleted. The second sentence in paragraph 1 is also proposed to be deleted, and the second word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official", and the word "competent" is deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to proposing and passing laws, must come from the fact that good laws must be proposed. Who's preparing these laws? We don't know who prepared it, who participated in the team or the task force that developed the version of this bill. In the case of good laws, there is no place to propose a law that looks more like a hunting society rule or a voluntary fire company; unlike the proposal of this law, there are sanctions in norms and voluntary fire departments and hunting society and in the wine and rakija law. But in the bill of this law, there is no sanctions. The question is whether it's a good law and what it's worth. Will this law be possible in practice? The promoter had to come from the first fact - whether this law could be applied or not, and what results it would produce in the process of implementation. The bad news will be the results. The SRS has proposed a number of amendments to which the text of this law can be significantly improved. That's what you'd say, let's make up a grandmother. The question also arises why this law does not cover the judiciary. The judiciary had to be covered by this law. Whether it's a conflict of interest for the president to be president, to be his daughter-in-law, and to be his son-in-law. Well, it's business. It's not something that could be tolerated and dragged or bypassed. It is mentioned here that it will be regulated by a special law. In no case should the judiciary be allowed not to be entered into and provided for by this law, for countless reasons. The nepotism of the judiciary has reached that extent... You, gentlemen of the government, analyze and see how many husbands you have - judge, wife - lawyers, daughters or sons - interns, or deputy public prosecutors, etc. So I can tell you that the judiciary here had to be built in. You see, the rule of justice does not touch, and the rule of law is held to justice and justice and is kept under its control. This was not by any chance during the previous period -- why were the deputy public prosecutors, acting as public prosecutor, appointed and elected by the government? The full legal jurisdiction proceedings shall take part in the representation of the indictments before the competent courts. Ladies and gentlemen, this law will not be applied. Gentlemen of the majority and coalition, you can bring it in, but you will soon analyze his results. (President: Time. ) The MPs of the SRS have proposed certain amendments, in order to improve this law. I would mention the amendments she submitted, in front of the SRS, MP Natasa Jovanovic, then, the amendment submitted by Koprivica Bozidar, Krasic Zoran, etc. I suggest you pay attention to these amendments proposed by the SRS, because the text of this law by the MPs of the SRS is well studied and we have seen great shortcomings, and what of this law could possibly be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1802	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1803	Ladies and gentlemen, in a set of dozens of anti-corruption laws passed by the Assembly in the previous assembly, there is also an imminent follow-up to this law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. However, I fear that this is how the proposal will not respond to its function and that we will come into a situation, as will the Law on the selection of MPs and the vote of the diaspora, that it will be practically inapplicable. That is also what more than a hundred amendments proposed to 37 members of this law are about. My amendment is to Article 11; I suggest that item 1 be deleted. The decision in the bill is illogical, since the bill does not provide for a way to determine the existence of pressure or inappropriate influence, nor sanction such behaviour. What is considered to be a pressure or an inappropriate influence and how is it manifested, which is the person, body or body responsible for determining the degree of inadequacy? The impact is, in any case, influence and every influence tends to achieve a particular interest. How do you distinguish an inappropriate influence from a statement of opinion or a difference of opinion? How can the Justice Minister's request be interpreted, which asked members of the administrative court to withdraw from office? Is that pressure or inappropriate influence? In order not to lead the officials into an unenviable position, I suggest that Article 1 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1804	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Becic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is one in a series of amendments to the SRS that we want to improve the bill and create conditions to prevent conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. It is already clear to all that the bill is due to the pre-election promises of one of the ruling coalition members. They quickly prepared him, as well as the diaspora voting law, and then, in consultations with coalition partners, they realized and realized that in this bill, the danger of them coming first under the influence of this law, certain provisions of this law, especially criminal provisions, so the government found a compromise solution and predicted that in the worst case, it would be a public application asking the officials to resign. We have a non-public warning here, and all of this is published in the Official Messenger, which 80-90% of Serbian citizens do not have a chance to read. We see that the consequences resulting from this law would be that huge funds would be thrown out solely for moral sanctions to be imposed on a public official who comes under the influence of this law. We have also heard from the minister of justice, who says that certain amendments have been accepted (and we see that only three amendments of the SRS have been accepted from 40 to 50), that only one committee has been accepted there. That would make a little bit of a difference with the money, but that's not really enough. My proposal for an amendment is that after Article 11, a new Article 11a is added, which reads: "A public official receives a salary while performing a public function and cannot receive any other salary or compensation unless explicitly prescribed by law". This amendment prevents the accumulation of salaries, earnings and compensation of public officials and thus affects the performance of public functions. It also eliminates the possibility that individual officials - ministers from the government, and a good example is a duchy official who is a member of eight boards of directors and who in most of these boards receives a salary of several average salaries in Serbia, such as boards of directors. NIS, DDOR, Development Fund, Vojvodina, etc. To all of this, as a cake cream, we have a statement by Minister Zoran Loncar, and I will quote it: "Punities are not legal, but moral". Then I wonder what the purpose of this law is? I would like to propose to the President of the Assembly and to perform the duties of the President of the Republic not to rush the signing of this law, to wait on June 13th, when the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic will return this law to the Assembly for a re-determination.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1806	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that regulates Article 12 of the proposed law, to delete Title III - Application of property, as well as subtitle - To submit a report on property, and to replace the word "functioner" with the words "public official". Otherwise, I am a member of the regulation of matter that will be quite difficult to implement in practice. Namely, the official is required to obtain an estate ticket from his nearer and still relatives. I think this is too harshly written, that it's required by the officials to submit a report on the assets and incomes of their relatives. The question is, what if they refuse to deliver such a statement? What is the penalty unless the official manages to obtain all the necessary information about his family's assets? Then, and if there is the actual will and desire of the functionor to submit a report, if this family is large or if it is torn apart, so many live abroad, how will all this necessary property data succeed in obtaining and delivering to the competent authorities? Finally, this member of the law violates human rights, i.e. Right to privacy, right to freedom of work, right to private property. It even declares here that incomes, cash, debt and claims must also be reported if you are related to one of those performing a public function. That's what the amendments are about, and I suggest that the Assembly accept this amendment. Although the law does not treat the judiciary, I want to make an example out of the judiciary, where human rights are clearly violated, especially human rights in Kosovo and Metohija. The Pristina District Court, number 238/2004, since 24 March 2004. International Investigative Judge Kristin Leaderman in a criminal case against Stojan Arsic accused of committing attempted murder in accordance with Article 30(1). Kosovo's criminal law (undermining the Criminal Law of Kosovo) -- a solution to investigate Stojan Arsic, a Kosovo Serb, born on 12 May in Konjusevec, married, two children, previously unconvicted, higher school prepared, with residence in Cerska No. 8 in Obilić, and currently in custody since 18 March. Reason: On 20 March 2004, investigative judge Predrik Krasniqi decided to appoint a 30-day detention indictee, according to Article 193(4). The criminal law of Kosovo. On March 18th, the suspect was shot at about 12.30 hours on Agrar Raba Street in Obilić by a firearm of TT 57 caliber 7.62mm in the direction of the protestants, as it says here, in front of his house. He owned that weapon and two 16-gun warehouses for years. The suspect confessed to shooting the gun twice and owning guns and ammunition. However, he said the Protestants, as he stands here, burned down houses in the neighborhood and started throwing stones at his house. He just wanted to scare them by shooting them in the air, to keep them away from his house. And, at the end of the arrest resolution, the solution of the investigative judge Predrick Krasniqi's one month detention, the explanation is -- his house in Obilić was burned in events last week, there is no alternative accommodation and given the always existing tension, it is very likely and understandable that he could leave Kosovo. Look, they organised the house of a Serb, not one Serb, but Serbia's Stojan Arsic from Obilic, and then that's why he's been in custody for a month, because he's supposed to have nowhere to live, so let's go to jail! On the other hand, there is often talk of the judiciary in Kosovo doing nothing. This is proof that it works. It only works when it comes to the Serb and Serb sides. However, whether there are these criminal charges against thousands and thousands, tens and hundreds of thousands of Shiparas who have managed to make this kind of beastly work in Kosovo... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In the last five years. I just wanted to show this as an illustration of what the judiciary and UNMIK administration in Kosovo and Metohija are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1808	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1809	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and in the previous assembly of parliament, many laws have been passed that in practice could not live. One of those laws is the one about banning alcohol from minors and banning the purchase of cigarettes to minors, only because the law is not sufficiently precise and defined. Also, I believe that a member of the 12th Law on conflict of interest is a member who will in practice be inconclusive or almost impossible to implement. Of course, it reads like this - the official is obliged to submit within 15 days of the election, appointment or appointment to the committee responsible a report on his property and incomes and on the property of a spouse or an out-of-marriage friend... To tell you the truth, I don't consider a serious official living in an out-of-marriage community. Then, blood relatives in the right and lateral lines end up with another degree of kinship. In a way, in order to correct this Article 12, I have submitted an amendment which reads: Article 12 paragraph 1 changes and reads: "The functioner is required to submit to the competent committee, within the next 15 days of the election, the appointments or appointments, a report on his property and incomes and on the property of the spouse and blood relatives in the real line (hereinafter referred to as the report), according to the state on the day of the election, the appointments and appointments". Why? We are aware that in the past 14 years, since the introduction of parliamentaryism in Serbia, there have been major divisions both in society and in the family, so that in one family we have that one member belongs to one party and another member belongs to another party. The question arises, when this law applies to officials, does not apply to citizens of Serbia, whether a citizen under this law is obliged to lay down his right and to say what he owns from his property. He is not obliged, as a citizen is obliged to submit a report on his property annually to the Public Revenue Administration. We know that there are too many court disputes in Serbia over the past 60 years where the closest family is divided and tried for property. In some ways, I believe that we are bringing officials into a very unpredictable position that they simply have no credibility and authority in front of their family and relatives. I think this will be degarding and devaluing for the official, if the functioner doesn't get what this law requires within 15 days. Secondly, there's too wide a circle of family that the functioner should tour and of all of them to collect property data. I don't think this is going to be enforceable in practice and that somehow the functioner will be demoted and devalued. Then, of course, there's no telling what's going on with a clerk who can't secure everything that's provided for by this law. Will it be placed in office or will it not perform the function for which it is proposed? For these reasons, in order for the official not to have to ask that even on the sideline of the family to give him what he owns from the property, I believe that this amendment that I have given should be accepted, in order to protect the dignity of the officials who are to perform a certain function, and in particular that there is no legal regulation to determine the properties of the extramarital mate, it is determined in court. Therefore, we should think carefully. I see this amendment has not been accepted, but I think it will be a major brake and interference for future officials. In order to avoid humiliation, which they can experience, I believe that this amendment, in the interest of these future officials, should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1810	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Zoran Lonchar, from the place: No debate, the amendment accepted. ) National MP Jovan Todorovic, the amendment has been accepted. You want the word though.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1811	I thank Mr. Minister for accepting this amendment; it seems to me that it is essential and that this law would be very difficult to apply if it was not accepted. We essentially suggested that under the notion of connected persons only members of the household of officials should be considered. As set out in Article 4, connected faces are both grandparents, both father and mother, and brothers and sisters, and sons and daughters, and grandchildren, and father-in-law and mother-in-law, etc. It would simply be impossible, i.e. in order for the official to respect the obligation to submit the report, to form a list committee that would go from house to house, face to face, and to list all that is prescribed in Article 13 of this Law. In particular, I suggest that it will be difficult, even if the amendments are accepted, to implement Article 13 in the part relating to the money. Who will convince his brother who lives in Nis, and the official lives in Belgrade, to report to him how much money he has; or his grandmother to report to him the ducats she received at the wedding; or some other values mentioned here, which are abroad. About other things, the state actually owns data. Whoever has the stock is registered in the stock register. Whoever has the stakes are registered in trade courts, who owns real estates, registered in the real estate cataster. But let's leave it to the officials' conscience to honor all of this, otherwise it would be impossible without accepting the amendment within 15 days -- and that they want to write and report, but to keep it honest. So once again, I would like to thank the promoter for accepting this amendment, so that the law can really be implemented in practice and implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1812	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, which requires that the title above Article 13 be deleted, and in Article 13 the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official" in the corresponding decline, and the word "competent" is deleted. In point 8, point 1, the word "execution" is replaced by the word "mining." In point 3, the word "republic" is deleted. It is undeniable that the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in performing public functions is inadmissible in practice and an obvious example of the marketing law, which seems to have been launched by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its pre-election campaign. The draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest contains a series of gaps, and we will see whether we, the MPs of the SRS, succeed in submitting amendments in order to possibly correct the bill. The SRS concept would represent one committee, not the dispersion of the committee as it is proposed, which would have the responsibility to control all forms of government at all levels, republican, local, and control the work of public officials of autonomous provinces. The motivation of submitting this amendment is that the termological alignment of the law with the SRS's views. This part of the amendment that changes the word "functioner" in the word "public official" to which people, i.e. functions, refer to this law. The exercise of duty is meant as a temporary solution, and the change in the word "realing" refers to permanent solutions. The way you formed the government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, is quite indicative, talks a lot about you, and that government has all the predisposition to be one of the most corrupt governments. That's where everyone has their share of the cake, without the right to interfere in someone else's ban, with someone else's ministry. It may have taken a little more discretion, as far as possible, to exclude the best man's connections from all of this, which are also very, very indicative. Inexorably, there is a dilemma about whether the state authorities are working, and if they do, how effective. The government of Vojislav Kostunica needs to answer whether courts should do their job, if they work with how effective, how the prosecution works, how the police operate. If all of this were to work, it would be debatable whether Serbia needs such a law or not. The question arises as to what tax authorities will do and whether they are able to determine what anyone owns from public officials. The MPs of the SRS have never had, they don't have now, and neither will they in the future, nor will they have any problems with the law. Serbian citizens recognize that. Something else leads us, unlike you, makes us love Serbia and it offers us a path where there is no compromise and there are not many points of contact with which you are headed. Serbian radicals have no price, no one can buy them, and this government doesn't seem convincing to me. It kind of looks like a wormy apple, which doesn't need a storm and which the first breeze will bring down, and that first breeze starts as early as June 13th, with the first results from the polling stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1814	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1815	Article 13 of the Law speaks of the information a functionor should report. My amendment to Article 13(1), in fact, is to add point 9a). This amendment reads, so if you add it to that -- the report contains data on: "travels and gifts whose value exceeds 20,000 dinars; catering services, tickets and accommodation services whose value individually exceeds 6,000 dinars, during the previous year, paid for the functioner and connected person by other persons". I propose an amendment like this because I think it's impossible for the list and for the data to be reported not to include such donations. I would support yesterday's skill, published in our newspaper, that the German Bundesbank has suspended the director, or the president of the central bank because he and his family have been paid a hotel bill. Mr. Director's name is Ernst Velke. He was ordered to take a vacation until it was determined whether he had committed abuse of his official position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1816	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1817	The amendment shall specify some of the views in the existing Article 14. Proposal for a law relating to the register of property. What we're asking for to change with the amendment concerns public disclosure of data. In order to be able to understand this amendment, I will read what is in point 2: "The property data reported by the official can only be used in a procedure in which it is decided whether there is an infringement of this law". The following stance: "Paid and other incomes received from the budget are public," and that is quite normal. However, these data that are present in the conduct of the procedure need some protection so that it does not happen before the procedure begins before this committee through the means of public information we hear some information, we learn something that should only be known to the authority that runs the register. We consider it necessary to protect against abuse, because, you will agree, it is only enough to publish some data unauthorized, and these data have not caused any measure, nor any consequences for the public official, and in particular, there may not even have been a conflict of interest, and this law is exactly what it wants to remove, it is its main objective. For this reason, we also propose a special level of responsibility for all those who use that data, which means that a new position 3 should be added after Article 2, which should read: "The public publication of the data referred to in Article 2 of this Article is prohibited and punishable, and if the data is published in means of public notification and does not determine who is responsible, the president and all members of the board shall be relieved of their duties and the new members of the board shall be elected." This attitude is needed for one simple reason, that this committee does not turn into something that exists on paper and can be a cover for data abuse. So this amendment does not protect data that indicate that there is a conflict of interest, but prevents the misuse of data that, when it appears in public, can cause some adverse consequences for that individual. In addition, we are bound by a federal regulation, which is now a republican regulation, which is the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. This amendment is in accordance with the provisions of this law. Of course, the promoter probably doesn't like this sanction that is provided; if everyone pretends that they don't know how the data from the register is published and that some Pera scribe there is responsible for the publication of the data, we propose this sanction, because this committee should also take responsibility not only for what it does but also for the information contained in that authority's jurisdiction. If such a provision and norm are not installed, be sure that we are free of this law, because there will be so much abuse, public publication of everything and everything, and then we do not need a committee. Because I can use some examples, I can tell you how far that can go -- well, they find a man and a brother, even though he's an only child, so they find him a property he doesn't have, so they find him the property he may have inherited, and as long as he argues through Korac's Law of Public Information, he gets sick of the man and the thought of suing someone and looking for justice in front of our court. If we want to protect this public official, who certainly bears responsibility for what he's doing, and if we want to potentiate his responsibility if he has acted in a situation where there is an obvious conflict of interest, then we need to protect that public official from abuse. Whoever says they can do this under some other law, public information, or this criminal law of ours, is wrong. With us slanders, insults and these actions under the Public Information Act are not so urgent, but after 16 years they can't finish. What kind of protection is that? You see for yourself, if some information is mispublished, some criminals may get the impression that someone is extremely rich and that they are subject to their interest, so that a man is neither guilty nor obliged to come into the spotlight of interest, and he is not guilty of anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1818	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 14th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1819	I've tried so hard, the minister might accept a few. Article 14 refers to a register of assets. I suggested that the records in the register represent an official secret. I think those data where the conflict of interest is recognised will already go public anyway, but these other data would have to be provided for as an official secret. The position of this member implies such a thing, but I think it is much simpler for that member to be arranged in the way I suggested in the amendment and that the position should be: "All the data in the report shall be recorded in the register of property managed by the competent commission and represented by the official secret." For this reason, I have suggested that paragraph 2 be deleted, which reads: "The property data reported by the official can only be used in a procedure in which it is decided whether there is an infringement of this law". I simply think that the law, or member, would be more orderly this way. I also suggested that, in addition to the salary and income that the official receives from the budget be the public and the income he receives on the basis of membership on the board of directors, of course, provided that no amendment was accepted which one of us asked that the functioner could not be on any board of directors. In point 4, I suggested that, in addition to being obliged by the official to report a change of data in the register, if his assets are increased beyond 20 average salaries, the competent authority shall also inform the other new circumstances which may be relevant to the potential conflict of interest. Statistics are given on an annual basis and it doesn't have to have all the data, so I suggest that this solution enters as an addition to Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1820	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. With this amendment, I ask you to delete the title above the member and, if you notice, the largest number of amendments to the SRS requires deleting the title. First, it is unclear why each member should have a title, and secondly, in this case, the title is not adequate. Namely, the title is the concept of a gift, and only in the first sentence of this article determines what is the term of a gift. The other part of the article refers to the value of the gift, so at the very least the title could be – the concept and the value of the gift. Secondly, the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official". More logically, since it is a public function, the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official". And in the end, the words "doing" are replaced by the words "implementation." You have heard the arguments of the MPs of the SRS, which are mostly appropriate - that duty is done and that functions are performed. The interpretation of the amendment is that it follows the previous amendments and indeed all the amendments of the SRS have one particular flow and meaning, and the purpose is primarily to improve the text of the law linguistically, meaningfully, and ethically, and to ensure its applicability. By saying that the government has accepted only three amendments to the SRS, the government has practically said in a indirect way that it does not want to apply the law in practice. Indeed, because there was a different will, almost a month and a half after the government was formed, it was half the usual time of 100 days given to the government, the police and prosecutors at the local site full of evidence of abuses of official positions in the performance of public functions, the government could in a month and a half show how energetic it is in the account of this. But it seems that the citizens only recognized the continuity with the former government, as after a month of silence, the SRS municipal committees again were mostly buried by various evidence, which is original, with photocopied documents, which speak of abuses of official position. This means that the judiciary, the police and the other institutions of the system still do not function; and if they were to function, which was enough for a month and a half, we would have already made the adoption of this law, at least at this point, completely unnecessary. There's every chance that the purpose of this law, which is being discussed at this time, is another. I've had so much to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1822	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Goran Dunjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1823	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 16, a principal official must not receive any gift in connection with the exercise of public office. Of course, the exception is protocolable and convenient gifts whose value does not exceed 3,000 dinars, and then the gift cannot be accepted in money or securities of value. I believe that after Article 1, a new position 2 should be added, which reads: "Protocoloral or appropriate gifts, the public official is required to submit within three days of the date of receipt with confirmation to the authority designated by the Committee". Of course, the amendment also refers to erasing the title above Article 16 and in Article 16 the word "functioner" is replaced by the words "public official" in the corresponding decline, and the words "doing" are replaced by the words "implementation". Of course, the amendment follows the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1824	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Miroslav Jankovic, Vojkan Tomic and Boris Karaičić submitted. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. The government has accepted the amendment. The title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment stipulates that the title above article 17 is deleted, and the explanation is exactly the same as the other MPs from the SRS parliamentary group, therefore related to all titles that are almost above each member. The word "functioner" is further predicted to be replaced by the words "public official" in an appropriate decline, and the word "competent" should be deleted. So, this amendment follows all amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. The legal - editorial nature is and provides the intended legal text. I would like to say one more thing about the amendment itself, referring to the opening statement of Minister Loncar. You said you accepted a large number of amendments. This in a certain way shows that you admit in an indirect way that the envisaged legal text that the government has offered is not good as soon as you accept the number of amendments that change it in a certain direction. In order for you to really edit this legal text and bring it into line with the law, I think you should accept the other amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, and I call on you as a promoter, as well as the other MPs to accept the amendments that we have proposed, in order to really get one valid law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1826	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1827	Ladies and gentlemen, although this law is. The bill of law to a good extent of utopia, the SRS MPs tried to amend this proposed text of the document. I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 which provides for the erasure of the title "Republic Committee" and the subheading "Republic Committee Jurisdiction" above Article 18 and the words "republic" in the first position of Article 18. I will try to work for the Serbian public, not for the congregation's majority, to explain the essence of my amendment and the law that has been offered here. Namely, this law stipulates that the implementation of this law is carried out by committees: the Republic Committee - for the officials of the Republic of Serbia, then the provincial board - for the province officials, and by municipalities - for the officials of local self-government. The Republic Committee has nine members, according to this law, the province seven, and the municipal committees by five members. When all this is well summed up, it's somewhere over 800-900 people engaged through these committees to enforce this law. The law also stipulates that all these committees have adequate follow-up services, which means that each committee will determine a number of people who will help him do this job. If we assume that this service will be in the same number, or about the same number as the board, it means that we will have about 2,000 people in Serbia who will rely on budgets, republican, province and municipal budgets. There will be direct consumption and no income from them. The only thing that is "good" of this law is that 2,000 people will be employed in Serbia. However, you must bear in mind that municipal budgets are empty, that municipalities do not have the money to service the basic needs they have under the law, that they cannot transfer money to schools to cover basic material costs and other users of the municipal budget, and the situation is similar with both the rural and the republican budget. So, my amendment, as well as the previous amendments to the SRS, provides for only one committee at the level of the Republic, which will do the full work. Why would we hire so many people? Why should we place them on the burden of budgets, if a single committee can do so with one service; so if it should be a little wider, bigger, bigger, bigger, but to do a full job for the whole Republic, because it is a job that is periodical. So, at the beginning of the function the functioner will report his property and then this committee, in fact, has no big job while the term of office, until the next election and so on. I ask you to think about this, that these amendments will be accepted, that in the beginning we will do something favourable, and also useful for the state, so that after a few months we will not make changes to the law and end what we can now do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1828	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? There's a minister in the government, Dr. Zoran Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1829	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this presentation of a fellow MP who spoke before me, I must apologize to those who listened to me here today in my first address today and to the public. I have made it clear and loud that the government has accepted some of these by meeting quality amendments submitted by MPs from all MPs. One of those accepted is a conceptal nature and concerns the number of committees. On the basis of the amendments accepted, an integral part of the text of the Bill on Conflict of Interest is the fact that there is only one committee, and this is the Republic Committee. So there are no 2,000 members who enforce this law. There are nine. There is only one republican committee and there are accompanying services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1830	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. On what grounds? Is it a replica? He misread you? Here you are, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1831	I apologize, but I was not present, if the minister accepted this amendment, when he said so, however, whether he was accepted or not, he remains a controversial intention. Your intention was bad at first, in the draft bill. There was the intention to exist in the Republic, both the province and the councils in the municipalities, and that's what's controversial. If you accept, it means you understand what's good and what's our good intention, but your intention at the beginning was bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1832	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1833	I will point only to the fact that you, distinguished colleagues from the SRS, have been your own time and have had the opportunity to propose such a law with good intentions, so you have not. It's extremely untasteful that you're talking about someone's bad intentions right now. Why didn't you suggest it when you were in power, and limit yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1834	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1835	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, things aren't as funny as Mr. Ristivojevic might have thought. It's a serious matter, which the minister doesn't have an answer for. Mr. Minister, I asked you, here's to inform the general public and the other MPs, not wanting to go out for a pay phone, but now I'm using my parliamentary right to explain to me (an hour and a half ago it was) which amendment was accepted, which parliamentary groups, to establish only one republican committee. You know very well that the law is imprecise, that it has been wrongly done and that the SRS parliamentary group has very professionally and competently submitted over 40 amendments to improve the bill's proposal. Since I had an amendment to Article 3 that regulates the existence of the board, starting with local, regional and republican, you did not know to tell me which amendment was accepted, so you referred me to Zoran Krasic. This is my distinguished colleague, who very professionally and competently explains both amendments and legal projects, especially when it comes to arguments that neither the previous Government nor this one is making the laws right now. I know Mr. Krasic is competent and professional. He's not at the moment, but he will be, Minister, be sure of that, and he shouldn't have given me an answer to that question but you. At the same time, you didn't know how to tell your colleague Zlatan Jovanovic. He specifically asked you - which amendment was accepted. The fact that you came out this morning with the claim that 21% of the amendments, you calculated the percentage, accepted, meant nothing to us. It may mean a total addition to presidential candidates, but all of you together, I don't know how much, you can't raise 21%. But it is your duty, Mr. Minister, to tell us which amendment has been accepted, which parliamentary groups, to establish only one, the Republic Committee, as requested by the SRS, and you are the only one who owes it. If you don't know, ask the lady next to you, ask someone from the DSS, if they know, and tell us nicely that we know what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1836	As president of the parliamentary group, please, MP Branislav Ristivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1837	Gentlemen of the SRS, you didn't answer my question - why didn't you propose such a law when you were in power. That's the question I didn't get an answer for here. A law like this only binds the hands of one authority. The DSS has made a pre-election promise, and now we're keeping it with our coalition partners. And, to you, while you were in power, it didn't occur to you to suggest something like this, but you now call this intent an evil intention. It's a common demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1838	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if, by any chance, the voter's will had been respected and the SRS was the one that made the Serbian government, believe me, we wouldn't have thought to support a law like this or propose it, because we don't need it. We have our internal control, and if someone is not a moral person, a person who doesn't deserve to be in such a high state function as these are, simply, that one cannot be proposed by the SRS. We are trying to get rid of such people in party infrastructure, and getting to a high state function is simply out of the question. That is why Tomislav Nikolic and in this campaign promises voters that he will stand firm to control the government of Serbia and every minister in the Serbian government, and also argues that after the very quick parliamentary elections, when this government, whose mandate is limited, because it is unnatural, when Serbian radicals are in that government, will control them even more strictly. This is one internal control that tells you about the nature of a political party that wants to play the most important role in the country. Then we don't need laws like this, which are inconclusive and which will still remain a dead letter on paper. But since we're not in power yet, we're trying to fix this legal text for you. I would like to appeal to both the government of Serbia and you, Mr. Minister, are still a professor, to spare us the future of these titles above the members of the law, because they can often be confusing and not refer to the right content of the member. I have submitted an amendment to article 19 above which is the title - The composition of the Republic Committee, and it can also stand - the way the board members choose, because it also refers to it. It's a little imbecilic to me. Heads are those who refer to what is being processed in certain members of this law. I don't know whose practice you adopted. It wasn't common for us until this previous DOS government. I am a member of 19th, I think, subject to an amendment that will have to be submitted by the Legislative Committee to accept some other amendments. Please allow the MPs to explain their amendments in future, because they do not need to know in advance, if they are not informed in writing, which you have adopted, and even then, because they want both the public and the other MPs to draw attention to the change that has taken place, the amendment, the work of their observations and their work. So, the proposer here suggests that the Republic Committee has nine members and says three members are elected by the Supreme Court judges, one member is elected by the Bar Association and five members of the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. You, as proposings, have defined yourself as competent here to determine the Supreme Court, the Bar and SANU. We don't know what made you think that. With the amendment, we are trying to introduce this into another column, or we are proposing that five members of this committee, one who will exist after these amendments, chooses the Administrative Committee, from different political parties within the National Assembly, that is, from the order of Members of Parliament and four members, also on the proposal of the Administrative Committee, from a circle of prominent public figures which, of course, will adorn all those qualities that should lead to them being objective. Also, in article 19 you state that they are competent judges and lawyers, and MPs are not, and that is because they are representatives of political parties. I guess it should be clear to everyone that today neither in Serbia nor anywhere there is a man who does not have his own political commitment. Whether he is a member of a political party or not, it is completely irrelevant in this area. It is impossible to establish membership in a political party unless a man himself says he is a member of a particular political party, which we are asking for by amendment and we think is fine. So this member should be completely audited and read, because of the public, I will read how: "The Committee consists of nine members who elect the president among themselves. The members of the Committee shall be elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board. When proposing candidates for elections, their work and reputation shall be taken into account. Five members of the committee are elected from the ranks of National Assembly MPs, and the other members should be prominent public figures, professionally defined to apply regulations. The board members must be from different political parties, so that no political party can have two members on the committee. Candidates for members of the board of senior public figures must declare their political status when accepting the candidacy. The chairman of the committee cannot be a member of a political party whose members or members are elected president, vice-president or member of the Government of Serbia," as it is assumed that the most likely target of conflict of interest will be members of the government, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. So, only a challenger's vanity can define you not to accept such an amendment. We think it's much more precise and it's consistent with what law should be reached. We think that outside this House, outside of these MPs, 250 who have received voter confidence, we should not be looking for any other authority that will decide who will be a member of this committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1840	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1841	In Article 19. The bill is given a way, perhaps even better to use the word form, the formation of the republican committee, which is approximately similar to our broadcasting committee, only the Serbian Orthodox Church is still missing; there are also NGOs in the broadcasting sector, there are associations of journalists, in the end and the Assembly. The results of this committee's work - zero. They're just spending money, and there's no effect. There were problems, two or three times we voted here on those members and again, after that election dance, who's legitimate, who's not legitimate, we practically have something that doesn't work, or we don't have it. We from the SRS are particularly bothered that the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts is proposing ten candidates. We really don't understand why the Serbian Academy is getting involved in this business. Preventing conflicts of interest among public officials, there are probably the most touching points with dry policy, little with law, perhaps a little more with the media and the media image of us. We believe that if it is to be protected, and it must be protected, the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, it must not even be proposed to appear in the election of this committee. I hear there is a need to include the Serbian Orthodox Church. Don't do that, aman, people, let's save something, not to throw them into something that's a couple of excellencies political issues and get confused that way. You see for yourself, all the actors who got caught up in politics were embarrassed, by the writers, etc. They became recognizable by their political definition and simply lose on the importance they had as professionals in some area. Of course, we respect your will for this committee to have nine members, and we propose that they be elected by the Republic Assembly and that five members be of the order of the Members of Parliament, and four (and, of course, one and the other proposes the Administrative Committee) prominent figures that have been checked as experts in the application of the regulations. Of course, by their work and reputation they deserve to be in such a place and decide whether there is a conflict of interest in a public official. We went, first of all, from the assumption of how to define the constitutional and legal position of that republican committee, where to put it, whether it is closer to the executive bodies, legislative or judicial. If you use that classic division, it's hard to place it somewhere. Every time that dilemma is found, such a committee should be closer to the National Assembly. In other countries, the situation is similar. And, above all, members of that committee are proposed from this circle to decide whether there is a conflict of interest or whether the provisions of this law have been violated, so someone has misused his private interest while performing his public office. That's why it encourages a proposal like this. Of course, the chairman of the board should be the one who is not a member of the political party that is in power; we took the republican level when it is said that it is not in power for the simple reason that it is not good for an independent body to be the representative of the party that exercises power. When all these amendments were submitted, we made sure that this law regulated the conflict of interest. For this reason, some of our solutions we have proposed to the amendments may not have been easily understood by some MPs, and when it comes to property and data protection and other issues treated by this law. Something in itself can be dangerous and deserves special attention, but the purpose of this law is to prevent conflict of interest. It is likely to be the conflict of interest most often when it comes to public officials and their narrow families, those who live with him in the household, grandmothers, and possibly grandfathers will not come under attack and these controls. As a result, it may also be necessary to look at those provisions on property and on the increase of property. (President: Time.) I'm a little out of time. In the next article, we'll have the salaries of those people who work. They, according to your proposal, are seven averages, and if the official for 20 average salaries has increased his property is subject to registration. This one can finish in three months. It doesn't make sense. Although you haven't done a clear line until the end whether this is just a conflict of interest law or also a property card law for public officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1842	Mr. Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1843	Ladies and gentlemen, while there was a debate in principle, I answered the word primarily because of members of 19th and two other members. However, the minister was not present in the O.R. and then I gave up, because I wanted to give him one, two suggestions so he could fix this with the government's amendment, and that's not unusual. When the minister returned, the debate was in principle over, and I no longer had the opportunity to take my word for it. So this article of 19 is quite clumsyly written, because we also have stylish disadvantages. It is said that three members are elected judges of the Supreme Court; and which judges, one, two, or the entire Supreme Court? It says here that the election is done by the Bar Association, therefore, by the institution, and does not stand to elect the Supreme Court as an institution. Next, she's involved here completely unnecessarily with SANU, and I'd say why she's not, say, a university, a university teacher's association, why she's not a medical academy, why she's not a technical academy, etc. I think it's almost untasteful for us to impose on SANA one of these obligations. There may be an answer tomorrow, gentlemen of the Parliament, but we don't want to do that. I think there was an exit here that the government had submitted its amendment, and the exit was in two ways. If we treat board members as civil servants, to be appointed by the Government or elected by the Assembly, as agreed, and there were some suggestions that the Assembly should choose them on a proposal from the Administrative Board. Someone will say – well, the Academy of Science is the institution of the highest authority. I agree, but why would we impose such an obligation on them, because it doesn't belong at all to the work of SANU. The exit was in these two ways, government or assembly. I agree, however, that these people should be outside political parties, not because there are no honest people in the parties far from that, but that they can sometimes come into a more delicate situation and that they cannot be objective enough if they are found to be from some political party. I accept that they are not members of political parties, but unfortunately, it is now too late, I don't know, perhaps not yet that the Government has resolved this question by its amendment of Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1844	Thank you. Mr. Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1845	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I draw some, perhaps unfortunate, circumstances, I am the only member of the SANU who is a member of the Parliament, and this house of canads with some MPs here is not still in a good voice, I feel a kind of moral obligation to report to that for a reason. The previous government, to remind you, took SANU off the list of budgetary institutions and Serbia was the only state, not in Europe, but in the world, that has removed its cultural and scientific institution from the budget. I don't remember that in the previous meeting of the National Assembly of Serbia someone raised his voice against this truly outrageous phenomenon, let's not use any other word. It is a great surprise that now that the new government is working to correct this great and invaluable injustice, there are voices here that are meant to exclude SANU from public decision on some key issues that we are all together, hopefully, interested in. I don't see why SANU would be denied the right or possibility, however you want, to affect social life in this country. I don't see why SANU would make it less responsible than any party, even if that party had some internal control. Therefore, it could be reasonably assumed that even without some internal control of SANU, it can responsibly and positively affect our public life. Therefore, here I advocate not to defend the dignity of SANU, not to defend it, but to remind you that once the injustice has already been righted, and when SANU is respected in the way that we should respect it in every normal democratic state, there is now no reason to hear the voices that would be against it. If the Serbian Academy of Science should be there and should not be because it is not the Serbian Orthodox Church, then my answer is why not also the Serbian Orthodox Church. I just want to remind you that this law on conflict of interest has not really been proposed by any previous government, and let's face it, the law on conflict of interest that binds the hands of that authority that it proposes, and I don't see why we would now make it impossible for a series of the most significant amendments to pass that law. You know, not doubting the good intentions of those who make such amendments, there can be an impression in public, if we speak to the public, not only to those who sit here, that such amendments were meant to obstruct such a law. Indeed, personally, I must admit, it doesn't seem convincing or justified that someone who hasn't bothered to propose such a law is now trying to disrupt this law, regardless of its best intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the competence of the authority to propose board members, no one has said that perhaps the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts is not competent, but we think this Parliament is more competent, and that is why? For responsibility. We are the ones elected by the citizens of Serbia, we are the ones who chose the government, most of this parliament has chosen the government. It's the government who appoints many officials. So, the responsibility is ours, and we would have to be interested not to have a conflict of interest and that officials perform their public function for the benefit of the state and the people, so not for our own benefit or for our own benefit, but above all in the interests of the people and the state, which, of course, can be his personal interest, which is the most normal and to be. Therefore, because of taking responsibility, we believe that the Administrative Committee of this Parliament, composed of representatives of all the political parties that exist here in parliament, is only competent to determine these members of the board. I don't think we really need to be the ones to make a commitment to the Supreme Court, the Bar Association and the SANU that they take on the responsibility that's actually ours. It's taking off responsibility. For that reason alone, we felt that this should be transferred to the Administrative Committee, not left to these bodies that were proposed. Truth be told, Your Honor, Mr Milosevic, the SRS did not vote for that caucus budget. She felt it was not good that the government did not finance the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and those on whose list you were elected as a MP voted for the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1847	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Replica, MP Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1848	I rarely show up for this pay phone, so I'd like you to listen to what I have to say. If it is the budget from which the Serbian Academy of Sciences was removed, it is the previous government, with the agreement of the previous assembly, did. Please don't make any misunderstandings: I'm sorry, if it was with the DSS, it was with the SRS. I think this dialogue that's led from the bench to the bench can be conducted in the hallway. Here in the Assembly of Dialogues, they're coming from this place where I'm trying to get a word in. It looks like it's not going to work. So, if you follow me, to be quite precise, to stick to the facts -- this current government has returned, and this government, and that means the DSS, the Serbian Academy of Science, to the list of budgetary institutions, what the previous government has not done. Once again, Serbia was the only country in the world to take down its highest cultural and scientific institution from the budget list. That injustice has now been corrected and I see really no good reason for the Serbian Academy of Sciences to be declared out again in a certain way. If we're gonna get her back into the budget, then we need to get her back into public and social life. I don't see why we'd have more confidence in the Administrative Committee than in SANU when it comes to conflict of interest. I don't see why SANU would be more interested in breaking a conflict of interest law than someone who belongs to a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1849	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1850	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, distinguished Professor Milosevic, I have an understanding for the argument you offered, and I would like to accept what you said, but I would like to say for the public that, when considering the 2001 budget, Master Radojko Petrovic and I have submitted an amendment to bring SANU back to budget financing and that unfortunately, only the SPS voted for this amendment. So, simply because of the public, you might have missed it. I believe this Parliament has the power to value SANA as it is deserved by the people who sit there and the experience that has been sublimed in all of you and the Academy together, and that is why I support what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1851	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1852	The bill proposed, as you know, and here it is quoted that three members of this Republic's committee propose the Supreme Court, one Bar Association, 10 SANU candidates. There's already been a question here about whether or not it belongs to SANU. There is one big difference between the Assembly, which we advocate to elect members, and SANU -- SANU chooses itself, and the Assembly is elected by citizens of Serbia, and that is a big difference, and that is why it is essential. The other thing that's going on, it's that this is a little offensive, especially for SANA. You see that the Supreme Court directly selects three members, that the Bar Association directly chooses, and SANU only proposes, and that is not clear, why this discrimination, because we do not see the basis or why the Bar (although I am a lawyer, we have discussed it) would have the privilege to control the officials and MPs of the National Assembly. We don't see any reason. In particular, we do not see that such a serious institution, which has nothing to do with corruption, political life, and should not have, may have, with social, but with political life, with such issues concerning relations between material interests, dealing with science, fundamental sciences, medicine, and especially those dealing with (a large number of SANU members are artists) by painting, singing, playing, should now be proposed by people who will control the National Assembly and functionators of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't understand it, and we think it's an exception, because there's no such solution in the world. We've been looking for a comparative right to see if any of the Academy of Science has this kind of authority and we haven't found it. So, we propose in the amendment that the Committee has seven members, that one proposes the President of the Republic, two members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, two members of the High Council of Justice and two members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all of them individually (this is a very important question whether they will be elected as a team or individually), the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia elects them. What's important is, I'm going to take this opportunity because I have a few more minutes, I want to say - the absence of two-stageness with this republican committee is not constitutional, it is contrary to Article 26. The Constitution. This committee has no control authority above it and has no authority to which one who is subject to its court would complain. Article 26. The Constitution says that every person is guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision that is resolved on his right or on a law based on interest. I think that one serious editorial by the government and the withdrawal of this law at this point, the grooming based on all this has been said in this assembly, would require one serious approach to this issue that is very important, but which has experienced a difficult assessment in this assembly and does not seem to bring us, despite the amendments adopted, a favourable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1853	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1854	If Mr. Vukkovic is still in the O.R., let him know that there is no one in SANU who sings and plays. Mr. Vukkovic, they're so-called. Reproductive art. So, no vocal singer, no violin player is a member of the SANU, and if Mr. Vukkovic hears me, and he won't hear me, as far as I can see from here... So, Mr. Vukkovic, if you're already talking about SANU, learn at least that much. There are no reproductive artists in that house. There are composers, but they don't sing, they don't play, as far as I know, unless they sing and play after this intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1855	Replica, MP Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1856	I absolutely know that only creators are chosen at the Academy, not reproductive artists. I just wanted to give you one look at what these people do. They end up composing something to sing and to play something, for example. I also mentioned painters. Thus, it is not so incompatible as to suggest that the Academy of Science participates in the control of the National Assembly and that is an important issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1857	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government has adopted the amendment. Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1858	To avoid unnecessary replicas, the amendments to the SRS are not intended to delay the debate or to obstruct the adoption of this law. All our amendments make up one continent, and that's what the government's representatives noticed. Some amendments have been accepted, some are not due to a conceptual disagreement with their proposal, but no amendment has been submitted to obstruct and I would ask MPs when they come out for this payphone to pay attention, if they have not read the amendments, it would be correct not to at least give some flat-rate estimates. Of course, by this amendment, we follow that change we propose in Article 19 and in relation to the proposed text of Article 20, we differ in terms of Article 3 so much as we believe that seven average salaries should not be compensation and profits belonging to members of this committee, but we believe that, in addition to some of our regular salaries, a member of that committee can only be entitled to a fee of one parliamentary salary. We believe that this fee is sufficient, given the additional work done by the elected member on this committee. We think seven average salaries is a big deal. We also agree with the proposal that these candidates are elected for five years and that they cannot be re-elected. As for this position 2, that there cannot be members of political parties, we disagree with that, and therefore we asked the amendment to put in place a new position - that the same obligations and prohibitions are applied to the committee member, which are prescribed by this law for public officials, because the choice and membership of this committee does not mean that they are amnesty by the obligations of other public officials. So, this amendment follows this previous amendment, and I have to point out again, however it turns out, on whatever side to observe, conditionally speaking, the business and jurisdiction of this committee, the way this committee works, the form of a decision to make, the importance of the decisions they make, the legal fact, if there are any legal facts of these decisions, the procedure in which they come to the truth and all other issues relevant to the work of this committee infallibly suggest that there is no place, not even as a proposing, for some institutions, which are certainly important to one nation and one state, but in the jurisdiction of this committee there will be, above all, something called a political question. That question cannot be avoided, so whether it is an unpublished publication, public publication, knowledge, registration, registration and so on, because the people concerned first of all are from the political sphere. As much as we talk about the director of a public enterprise or the director of the Republic Directorate as a non-party person, an expert, until a few months ago we had experts from the corner, it's always a political issue. If it weren't for a political issue, no one would take hold of himself to be in power. A party that wants to be in power, which wins power, wants to place its people in those places, because it is responsible for the functioning of these institutions. All that is done in this committee is, first of all, the political issue and the measures that are to be expressed will be the political and legal consequences of a situation, not classical sanctions, or measures, if the objective of this law and initial definition were forgotten, and I am simply embarrassed that you have not adopted the amendment to Article 1 of this Law, because if you had adopted that amendment many questions would have been clear by the logic of things and would have regulated itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1859	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Prorokovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Dusan Prorokovic withdraws the amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1860	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the essence of the amendments submitted by the SPS is that a member of the board for his work on the board may have the highest salary in the national MP's permanent work in the National Assembly, instead of the proposed seven average earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia in the month that precedes the payment. Whenever there's money, there's definitely trouble. Seven average earnings in the Republic of Serbia for the work of one member of the board are, at the very least, 90,000 dinars. National MPs who are constantly working in the Assembly work for two average earnings. You really wonder where logic is. The National Assembly elects most of the members of that committee, or we MPs. In my Password, for example, it pays off in the economy of barely 7,000 dinars. Is it natural that someone is working on a board to monitor the work of a clerk, who will keep some records, has 90,000 dinars? In doing so, if you look at a member relating to the Secretary of the Committee's earnings, the amendment, as I understand it, was accepted, but if it were not for the secretary of that committee, would have the right to earn three times as much as has the Secretary of the Assembly, and that would have been around 120,000 dinars. In which this member of the board will be more engaged, more responsible than one national representative in this assembly who, as you can see, is being ambushed every week, we have the work of congregation committees and we are likely to work 150 and more working days this year. I am sure that the board members will not work so much and why they would have almost four times the salary of MPs. I think it's top demagogy that we're talking about the salaries of the ministers of 25,000 or 30,000 dinars, about the salaries of MPs about that amount, and we expect them not to be corrupt. That's why I think there's been a mix-up here and that this amendment is actually fundamentally acceptable. I understand that my esteemed colleague, Prophetic, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, submitted the same amendment, then withdrew it. We from the Socialist Party of Serbia have submitted it because we think there is nothing more logical than that of a member of the board, whom I respect, of course, respect as much as the MP. If you take all the other restrictions that will arise, even if they are moral, then we really need to think about who these people, the members of that committee, how many scientists they have, how many professors of the university have, how many other people in the economy, what they have in the economy, and what's actually going to be such a job to be rewarded. If the answer is they won't be corrupt, then I'm telling you that the salary of 90,000 corruption is on its own. I propose to the assembly majority to accept this amendment, because I am fully aware that no government, nor this one, will increase parliamentary salaries to be at the level of seven average earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia to level it. If we really want everything done by others and in the world, then let's look at the situation in neighbouring Croatia, and you'll see that the MPs there have 2,000 euros, even more, and we'll be working here for some money that we can simply earn in other places without being officials, even if we respect these legal provisions that we don't have management rights in our businesses, etc. Let us begin to appreciate ourselves so that others may appreciate us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1861	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1862	I have submitted the same amendment to this member of the bill, as Mr. Jovan Todorovic has submitted. That's why I withdrew my amendment proposal, because it doesn't make sense that there are two identical amendments, if the Assembly's technical service has already made a slip, so it didn't bring them together into one. We have an incredible situation. The MPs in the National Assembly elect MPs in the Federal Assembly who have twice the salary of MPs in the republican home. MPs in the National Assembly elect a governor of the National Bank who has 10 times the salary of an MP in the National Assembly. Named persons, directors of public enterprises, members of boards of directors, etc. They have three to four times the salary of MPs, and that's a rule that's been going on since 1990, maybe even from earlier times. I don't want to talk about the need to raise parliamentary salaries. We can talk about that. Social and economic opportunities in society are difficult, MPs must share the fate of their people, but if the parliamentary salaries are as high as they are, then, for God's sake, so many salaries will be members of the Republic's committee, federal MPs, director of public enterprises and governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1863	The service of the National Assembly has just informed me that there is a difference between the amendments of MP Dusan Prophetovic and MP Jovan Todorovic. "The member of the Republic's Committee has the right to a monthly fee," says the amendment by Dusan Prophetovic, and the amendment by Jovan Todorovic: "The member of the Republic's Committee has the right to monthly compensation". Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, if the proposed amendment of the SRS is accepted, especially if the amendment is accepted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Mr Zoran Krasic, then this amendment, which I propose, should be accepted, as well as in relation to the committee's discharge procedure. First, I propose that the title be deleted above article 21, because as members of the parliamentary group we generally put it as an objection and suggested, we think you'll accept it. What is indisputable in this article, and I suggest that it remain, is that the duties of a member of the committee should be suspended by the time he is elected, by the resignation or discharge of his duties as a member. A member of the Board shall be dismissed if he performs his duties unwittingly and impartially. I think that this provision will be a little problematic and difficult to determine; I don't know how the legislator of this law imagined that he was assessing the unconsciousness and bias of a member of the board, because no member of this law was intended to adopt an act that would be closer to regulating the work of the board, so as to specify what was safe and what was unsatisfactory work, what was responsible or what was the irresponsible work of a member of the board. Any member of the committee should be dismissed if he is sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment or a criminal offence which makes him an unworthy member of the board, or if it is established that a member of the committee has violated the provisions of this law. However, neither I nor my party colleagues agree that a member of the committee can be a member of the political party or that it is a political party's reason for discharging the duties of a member of the committee. I remind you that in this bill, perhaps two or two and a half years ago, the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, members of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, who are absolutely known to belong to some parties, has been elected. Furthermore, I ask you whether the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, a member or president, i.e. a republican public prosecutor, who has now resigned, belong to or belonged to some parties or parties? You, Minister, have said in explaining this law that you do not accept the membership of a member of this committee. You don't define it by party membership, because to curb the day-to-day political influence, but whether, when these elections were made, it's precisely that day-to-day policy influence that we have that fact. We were just having a discussion about the Academy of Sciences and its members, who should be members of the board. I believe that the Academy of Science, as supreme, is primarily scientific, but also a cultural institution, has people of reputation, but there are also a good number of members of the Academy of Sciences who have party membership. Will the election or selection of these 10 members be taken into account and will those belonging to a party be qualified as less moral, will they be able to be members of this committee? All these are arguments that need to be seriously considered, whether this proposal should be insisted that board members cannot and should not be members of political parties. I think you're wrong and that this law and everything that it needs to be chosen and regulated would certainly be more valid and valuable, more acceptable if we don't strictly adhere to those specifics. Finally, in this amendment, I would also suggest that the new position 5, which should be added, be added: "The Committee is in charge of a procedure that determines whether the reasons for the resolution have taken place and proposes a resolution of the members of the committee. The resolution decision is made by the National Assembly." Thank you for your understanding, and I apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1865	Is there anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1866	I'm very happy to finally be able to hear a commendable word at the address of SANU. But when that house is mentioned again, let me say something in favor of the idea that her voice is heard in public when it comes to some key political and social issues. First of all, maybe only one per cent of SAN members belong to a political party. But that's not what's crucial to what I'd like to show you. Ladies and gentlemen, being a member of the SANU does not entail any material or political privileges. Here's one piece of information, a member of SANU, who spent so many years doing some scientific, artistic work and I guess something in it, of all possible material privileges has only an addition that is 11,000 dinars for regular members. I'm asking you -- why would someone who only has this humble material fee be in any way interested in corrupting himself or in misusing his influence in public. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever was going to be here in this society and this society certainly didn't choose a member's career. So why would a poor academic be someone who should now be eliminated because of the possibility of affecting the course of this public and social life and why should we start from being interested in belonging to a political party and why would he defend some particular political interests? That's the question I think the answer means.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1867	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1868	When it comes to this matter -- who solves members of the Republic Committee, the law stipulates that the board solves its own members. That's unacceptable. If most members are to choose the National Assembly, then the National Assembly must resolve them. That's not acceptable. Never in legal practice does it exist that a member solves only the body or committee, but it is resolved by being resolved by the one who chose him. It's the only logic. Why would they solve themselves and have some combination of themselves, which can also be political, to remove some members from most of the vote and absolutely dominate that body, which, as we all have found, is very important. But aside from that. It's possible that we don't have that board, because there was talk here about how the Academy of Science is our important institution, how it's absolutely worthy of being at the center of social life. Well, nobody slows it down. It's only a question of whether she wants to do it. Despite what we've heard from an academic here today that would be desirable, we can't safely claim that this is what SANU really wants in general. The situation may arise: as proposed in the law, it proposes ten candidates for members of the board and can come to the conclusion that the Serbian Academy of Science does not want to propose any member. It can happen that she proposes ten, and if we don't choose here, the Academy gets angry and says, "I'm not going to propose anymore." In that case, we don't have a republican committee at all. I'm talking about the solutions in the law, not about the dignity of this body or that organ or the bodies it chooses. Or, say, the bar. The bar can come to the conclusion that he doesn't want to choose that organ. Then we stay on three members who elect the Supreme Court. The question is, will he choose? We assume, since he's a state authority, he'll follow what the law says. Other social institutions are not required, both the Chamber and the Academy of Sciences, to do so. Therefore, we can very easily lose that committee, in the elections, and also come at a risk of getting rid of it, if it solves itself. These are solutions that are absolutely impossible and unacceptable. I could give you some harder qualifications, but I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1869	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1870	Since Mr. Vukkovic's argument with singing and playing failed, he decided to resort to a slightly different argument. First of all, let me remind you that Mr. Vukkovic was someone who belonged to the previous government, the previous government that took off the Serbian Academy of Science's budget list. I'm very surprised, perhaps I could say even astounded, that now I hear a word of praise from Mr. Vukkovic about that same house. So, I would like to have been able to hear it from the assembly pay phone or from a public appearance of Mr. Vukkovic from the previous period. As far as his argument goes, she's on her weak feet. I believe that Mr. Vukkovic would not have won any of his disputes as a lawyer if such an argument were used. Let me give you my arguments. To prove that the Serbian Academy of Place is not in such a committee because it could happen that it refuses to propose its ten representatives, that sounds, I must honestly and honestly say, quite comically. What reason do we have to assume that the Serbian Academy of Sciences would have such an honor that it was given her refused? So, since there is no good reason to suspect such a thing, then really, Mr. Vukkovic, I don't envy those clients you defend in courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1871	Replica, MP Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1872	This is about a legal opportunity that was never denied by my proponent either. Therefore, it is the concern and responsibility of this congregation to really get such a committee, if it has been discussed this much, that is how much it speaks and discusses. That's quite possible, because I know that all academics are in no way complex, especially in political matters. As for singing or playing, I'm going to get a little bit straightened out, so I'm going to say, they're in music, if that pleases Mr. Academyman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1873	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1874	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder who's afraid of the Serbian Academy of Science? I think the government of the Republic of Serbia had the best intentions. It is the most frequent part of this society, which fought in science, for modest incomes, and the choice of them on board will certainly give a more real committee than the Administrative Committee of the Assembly selecting one of the MPs, who may have reached several apartments and several business spaces in the past government's meeting, and will also protect the conflict of interest in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1875	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Paja Momchilov. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing a number of amendments tabled. We have seen that a good part of these amendments has been adopted. We witnessed a very interesting principled debate. All this unequivocally proves that today we are discussing one missing law. So it can't be said for sure that there's someone's evil will for obstruction, when there's a debate like this. I was trying to wonder why we have this situation that we have so many amendments, invested both by the opposition, the SRS, and certainly by the position. What we see as a result, the largest number, as we've heard from Mr. Minister, of the changes adopted, came from the amendments that the position has given. So the position gave the best assessment of this proposal: it's one missing bill. I'm sure there's a reason for that. It's probably a rush. Another reason could be to stop. I'm afraid there may be some incompetence. Mr. Minister, I don't think it's allowed in the first term to have a definition that's a false definition. Look at the second attitude, it's inadmissible for the law. I wonder how you can get past that and not adopt that proposal. But here I went to talk about a 22nd member of this bill. There are two kinds of grudges I could give you. The first ones are of a formal nature. These are minor remarks. You see, we're all repeating, from the amendment to the amendment, to remove those headlines. It's unusual for you to give headlines to every member. At least I've never seen such laws before. When I got a little interested and looked at the legislation that regulates this issue in the surrounding countries, I saw the Croatian law and I immediately understood where you took it from. But once you've already taken it and copied it from the Croatian law, it would be better if you've introduced other solutions, which are far better, from that law into this bill. The second formal objection is that instead of "functioner" it should stand: "public official", because that only defines more precisely what needs to be determined. Now we have at least three fundamental regrets in this article. First of all, we replace the adjective "republic" and throw it out because we think there should be only one committee. You told us, although I don't know whose amendment you adopted, that you adopted it. We don't know what amendment, and we'd like to really hear it. The second fundamental observation is, in our opinion, that the appointment and resolution of the secretary is carried out by the committee. No, this must be done by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee. It is clear that it only affirms the principle that the National Assembly of Serbia is the bearer of the highest national sovereignty and that in the division of, in the system of government, what division exists with us, there is no need to scrutinise the jurisdiction of this highest forum. So we absolutely think he should be chosen by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Administrative Committee. The third thing, the Secretary of the Board's salary cannot be higher than the Secretary of Parliament's salary, according to us, and not as - as it stands in your proposal - could not be higher than the triple amount of the Secretary of Parliament's salary. What you're introducing, we're wondering, is there a new kind of praetorian guard that needs to protect a strange new order? Instead of these laws that you're allowing us to discuss them quickly, and you're giving them to us messy and formal, and I'm afraid essentially, it's better to discuss here laws that will trigger the economy, increase the social product and provide all citizens with a better standard, not one elite of "just." Please, I'll end with this, it's nice, Mr. Minister, when you're correcting the pleonasms that we do in our speech and some sentences that don't suit you, but I think you should first make one good law, well-organized legal and not prescribe some solutions from other laws so falsely and only then do you have the right to deal with all these others. I'm warning you again, please read the second position of the first member where you... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... give one catastrophic definition that means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1877	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The promoter has accepted the amendment. The title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1878	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS, unlike the promoters, has a completely different concept of this law, and above all it is about how members of the board are elected and decided by the committee itself. The promoter put in his proposal that one member of the board be elected from the ranks of lawyers, and three members are elected by the Supreme Court of Serbia from the ranks of lawyers, which are experts, so to speak, from criminal, civil, commercial and administrative law, and five members of the board are elected by the National Assembly on the SANU proposal. As for the proposal, three members elected by the Supreme Court of Serbia are required to be experts in the area of criminal, administrative, economic and civil law; the problem is only because it is difficult to find a lawyer who is an expert in criminal and civil law without being a judge, prosecutor or lawyer. Lawyers who do not work justice and work in businesses can be experts in economic law, can be, if they work in state authorities, and experts in administrative law, but it is difficult to find a graduate lawyer who is an expert in criminal and civil law without working in justice or in law enforcement. How and on the basis of which criteria will the Supreme Court do so, it is not evident from this law. The bar will be elected by one member of the board, we assume by expertise, although there is no exact criterion. Five members will be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the SANU of ten proposals. However, there is no precise criteria for proposing, whether it is academic expertise or their moral quality. The SRS had a very different and much simpler concept of the composition of the committee: the Management Board would propose board members, and the National Assembly would adopt, five would be members of MPs, and four would be impartial, meaning public figures. This is a much simpler procedure, and it would therefore know that this body, or committee, is it a committee that is related to legislative, executive or judicial authority. This is how we have a surrogate where we do not know exactly which branch of government this committee belongs to, and among other things, those in Article 23 predict that if a member of the board violates the provisions of this law, the committee will take the procedure for its resolution. So, the board itself has been dischargeing that member, even though he didn't choose him. Among other things, paragraph 2 states that the decision will exclude that member of the committee to whom the infringement of the law applies and, for the first time, I see and hear of such a thing, that another member will be excluded from the decision-making and voting process, and by lot. I don't know how it's going to work and why it would be done, why someone would be excluded from making a decision by draw. It's not gambling, so pulling out balls, lottery, it's a republican committee that decides on certain injuries, whether they exist or not. All members of the board are completely equal and I don't know why anyone would take a draw. There's another illogicality there, and that's, it says -- when a trial is being conducted on whether a member of the board has violated this law, that member, and another one that the others determine by lot... Well, I can't do the rest if the rest of them do, so there's no draw or draw, and if there's a draw, the rest of them can't decide. So, the formulation should be completely thrown out, so to eliminate that someone is eliminated through the bushes... (President: Time. ) I suppose, and here I am finishing, that the legislator of this law was the problem of an even number of members who would decide if a member was excluded from whose resolution is being dealt with. However, it absolutely has nothing to do with why an even number of board members would be a problem when deciding. Finally, with the Assembly elected by the SRS concept, the 4th Article 23 position is completely too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1879	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments to the bill on preventing conflicts of interest in public functions, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment to Article 24 of the proposed law applies first and foremost to the following. The title above Article 24 – The procedure for determining the existence of an infringement of this law should be deleted. Paragraph 1 should be amended and read as follows: "The procedure in which it is decided whether there is an infringement of this law shall be initiated by the committee under official duty or at the request of a public official or his direct elder". The proposal of the SRS is that there is only one committee (which is what our MPs said about their amendments mainly) and that the Republic Committee does not foresee the regional, urban and municipal committees. We find them unnecessary and superfluous. We believe that the formation of a board at all levels is a massive and expensive process, if the proposing is taken into account, the government of the Republic of Serbia has lost sight of the fact that only for net payments, if all committees are formed at all levels, about a billion and 300 million dinars should be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In front of the words "functioners" should add the word "public", because these are persons elected or appointed by legislative, judicial or executive authorities, or state authorities, and officials can also be elected or appointed persons in legal persons and associations of citizens who have no direct connection with the authorities. Also, Article 2 should be amended and read as follows: "The Committee may initiate the procedure on the basis of the application of a legal or natural person and an anonymous application". The amendment proposes the possibility to initiate the procedure on the basis of an anonymous application and defines what is meant by the public work and publication of the decision of the Committee. Item 3 should be changed and the word "committee" should be deleted "republically", so Article 3 should read: "The Committee shall inform the officials of the initiation of the procedure and shall enable it to make known to the claims and facts that burden it". As for attitude 4, he needs to change and delete the word "republic" in front of the word "committee." Article 4 should read as follows: "The Committee shall determine the facts and decide on its own, in a procedure in which the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure are applied accordingly." After Article 4, a new position 5 should be added, which should read: "The public is excluded in the committee's proceedings. The Committee is obliged to publicly publish its final decision on the procedure." Namely, this is in line with the "audiatur et alter paras" rule, which means enabling both sides, both the board and the public official against whom the proceedings are being conducted. This process that is being initiated is a specific procedure, which will be met by our legislation if this law is passed. It can be said that it is a sui generis and will first appear in our legislation. By submitting amendments to Article 24, as well as any amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, we tried to make the law clear and accurate. We believe the proposal for a legal solution by the government of the Republic of Serbia has been made quite confusing, with vague formulations. We have no doubt that the government had good intentions, but we believe that the proposal was made in haste and that the public in Serbia should not expect a miracle from the proposed law. The law will not have the importance the public in Serbia expects. A law which does not primarily have a criminal provision, which provides for a warning measure or a recommendation to a public official to resign in the event of a conflict of interest, will in practice change nothing and will not bring anything new.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1881	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions. The prime minister's opening statement shows that he is personally satisfied with this bill. It may also be logical, but the wider Serbian public, like us MPs, did not have the opportunity to decidently analyse and give their court on this bill. The time of arrival of the proposal was hasty. The current government has highlighted the proposal in hopes of one of the election promises being fulfilled. This law is a law of good intentions and we as a Serbian Radical Party know that this law, unless it suffers changes with our amendments, will not be enforceable. We believe that by accepting our amendments, he will suffer the root changes. This law predicted that the morale of a functioner should be at some other level rather than at the level of godfathers and Bursar institutions. That's even by this law, and it goes around. The law belongs to a group of anti-corruption laws, although it itself cannot do legal fact unless other standards in this area are applied. The law wants to prevent a conflict between public and private interest. This is an interest that this law resolves through its committees. The committees are formed at the republic, province, local and urban level. The committees are preventing conflicts of interest among public officials, and these committees will experience a kind of comment: how to form them, what profiles they can be, and where we can draw on small and poorly developed local self-governments, when we know who remains in that space, one or not even one lawyer. It was also said that the education of these committees was needed; and a quality comment could be made on this, who are these pilot educators when we know who is behind these imported projects. This amendment of ours should improve Article 25, and these are the measures borne by the violation of this law. We propose that the title above Article 25 be deleted and Article 25 is amended and read as follows: "The public official is obliged to sign, when he is elected or appointed, a statement that he accepts that under the conditions laid down in this law, he may be brought before the committee. The public official is obliged to sign and declare that, at the invitation of the Committee on Severe Forms of Infringements of this law, he will resign to the authority who chose him, appointed or appointed him to perform his public office. For infringements of this law, the Committee may impose the following measures: suspending the payment of a part of the monthly salary, notice and public publication of a decision by a committee recommending the resignation or initiation of the discharge procedure of the public functionor. 'Cause the warning measures don't achieve the goal, at least for now. Maybe at some other time, yeah. The law is an expensive experiment that won't experience enforceability. It will not be necessary when Tomislav Nikolic is elected president of Serbia on June 13th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1883	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1884	With this amendment, we tried to fix Article 25. It's a bill of law. The text offered by the Government regulates measures that can be imposed on public officials if they harm their behaviour or their condition to violate the provisions of this law. Article 25. We formulate differently and we want to make a process buckle, why would some official come into a situation that about his personal rights that are guaranteed by the Constitution... means why he is in a position to account before some authorities when it is neither the court nor the authority of the administration, nor any other competent state body authorised to review its situation and its behaviour. Since this law is really on the edge of the Constitution, we found the formula, so the public official gives two statements before the election. The first statement is the one which accepts that it participates in the proceedings before this committee, and the second statement is, depending on whether the elected, appointed or appointed official is, a statement which obliges that, in the event of serious infringement of the provisions of this law, if the Committee finds that he has done so, he will resign, or be brought against him, a discharge procedure before the authority that appointed or appointed him. These statements are fully in line with what makes this law passed. So they're following the objective of this law. The aim is to prevent conflict of interest, so that the official does not subdue the interests of the company, the authorities, the state, and let us also say to the people, to his personal interests that are reflected in the benefit of himself, his family member, or to cause direct damage to a third party who addresses him as a public official in a procedure. Announcing, informing the public that each official makes these two statements is also a major pressure on the official that he will perform his public office while on the job. In this way, it is possible for the committee to work and that no one who comes under the blow of the board should question the authority of that committee for this part of the job, to say allegedly, so I did not accept it, but either because of this injury does not follow the resignation, does not follow the launch of the discharge procedure, but at the beginning of the public official takes on certain obligations, in addition to those of his duties under some law or other regulation. We believe that no official should avoid giving these statements, because by giving these statements, accepting public functions, he takes over a whole system of behavior where he has to fit in. These statements do not prejudice the independence of this functionor, but make assumptions about the quality of the work of this committee, that there is no dispute after the public after the results of the work of that committee and, at the same time, influences the official that, even before the procedure is launched, he may resign seeking to resolve him from a proper public function, aware that if he goes before the board, he may be even more unfavourable, at least as far as the public is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1885	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the laws of the previous government had one common noun, one common feature, and these were reform laws. The laws that this government and the congregation majority propose, or the congregation majority adopt, are the laws of good intentions and pre-election promises. That wouldn't be controversial, I mean those good intentions, and we're not parties to them, and we'd be in favor if this law were a little more quality. You have seen that SRS MPs have submitted a large number of amendments, and we have used these days to consult with Serbian citizens and to see what they think of this law. First of all, I consulted with my fellow citizens in Ljubovija about this law, and you should know that I have spoken with people of different qualifications structures, then with people belonging to different political parties, as well as with those of citizens who do not belong to any political party. You know, gentlemen, what did they say about this law? God forbid this law is passed and not applied like this. First of all, they have great objections to the composition of the board that will decide on a conflict of interest, then they have objections also in the way that the board is elected, as well as the amount of compensation that these committees will receive, and therefore it would be much better, in their opinion, not to adopt such a law and not to accept it. But for us Serbian radicals, this law is not at all controversial and we will certainly not come under his attack. I liked Section 2 in Article 5 of this bill, where it says - the official must not do the job of consulting legal and physical persons. The exception is the MPs... I mean, first of all, to the MPs, you saw that my predecessor was great at talking about this, he's a great knower of this issue, so in the future, when you want to pass a law you can freely consult with him; I think as a patriot, a patriot and above all an expert man in this area, he'll help you do a quality bill and give it to the Assembly for adoption. 'The minister said in his opening statement this morning that a large number of amendments were accepted, which is a confirmation that this bill was not so high-quality; and then he wanted to show it further by the structure of the proposings, as many of which amendments were accepted by political parties, and I don't think that this alone meant much, because we Serbian radicals said that we would support it except for our amendments and amendments from other political parties that would contribute to improving the text of this law. Let me tell you that my amendment applies to Article 26. First of all, we think that the measure of unpublic warning represents mild, flimsy, and no measure whatsoever, and that essentially does not mean anything. We have seen that much more serious measures, including criminal measures and sanctions, cannot at times give a certain result, and unpublic measures, especially, of these unpublic measures, have nothing to expect. Since full Article 26 of this amendment is amended, I will read: "A public official is required to suspend the payment of a part of the monthly salary for all violations of this law which the public official has committed by failing to comply with the obligation to register or by missing the deadlines prescribed by this law, on which basis it can be concluded that he was covering up the data or that the reporting of untrue data could result in an unauthorized benefit or could cause damage unacceptable to perform a public function, and did not significantly affect the performance of the public function". The position of the first member shall be defined in which case the fine of a public official shall be defined. Article 2 "The suspension of the monthly salary rate consists of the suspension of one third of the public official's salary for a maximum period of three months consecutively, starting from the next month to the month when a decision was made to make this measure. "The position of the 2nd member defines the amount of fine for a person who violates the provisions of this law. Finally, paragraph 3 of this article reads: "The decision to suspend the monthly salary shall be carried out by the authority paying the salary to the public official, suspending part of the salary and transferring the funds to the Committee's special account". Position 3, therefore, defines who suspends the public official. Since this law has not yet been adopted and has not yet been adopted, I can only say, and it will probably not be retroactively applied to me, that we are looking forward to this common candidate who will be beaten to his feet by June 13th, and then this law will probably make much less sense, there will be much more control in Serbia's political and life at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1887	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mita Avramov. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see from all of this so far, and I think that this law, which doesn't have many members, has been submitted to all of us for sure about 100 amendments, means in itself it's saying that the law isn't done as it should be done, that, in our Serbian radicals, it's done hastily, that it wasn't done in the spirit of the law, it's supposed to really look. For that law to be much better, it took at least six months for something really good to happen. As for Article 27, the SRS has submitted an amendment to delete the full member because there are a lot of ambiguities. These are all members who speak of the reminders or the replacement of members, and Article 27 says, "If the official to whom the measure of non-public warning is given does not comply with this law until the expiry of the time limit laid down in his decision, he is told the measure of public publication of the recommendation for resolution." Who shall utter these unpublished measures, to whom shall they be put, how shall they speak, who shall determine whether these measures are punishable or not, and how punishable they are? Furthermore, the same text of the law states: "The measure of public publication of the resolution recommendation shall also be pronounced if, contrary to this law, a function contrary to the legal or factual exercise of management rights in a commercial entity or under this law, a function in public undertakings, institutions, undertakings or other legal entities with the participation of a state capital or other economic operators is re-injured by this law or if, after having been issued, it affects the exercise of public office by any other breach of this law". My amendment said in an explanation that this article 27 would be in the sense of a warning. The title above article 27 is deleted, and Article 27 is amended and reads: "For all violations of this law based on the reason of the untimely and sloppy fulfilment of the public official's obligations unless adverse consequences have occurred and have not affected the exercise of public office, the committee has made a warning measure. The warning measure can only be given once to a public official, and in the event of a repeat violation of the law that would make the warning measure known, the public official is given the measure of suspending the payment of a part of the monthly salary. The warning measure is carried out by delivering a decision to the public official and to the body who chose him, appointed or appointed him to perform that public function." Therefore, according to all the amendments so far and in the future to Article 37, I would suggest that the minister withdraw this law, because there are many amendments, can be done on all points and come before this assembly with one right, valid law that we will surely all support, if certain measures are adopted that we have submitted, because we are not only working for the SRS but for the interests of Serbia and the whole of this assembly. So we're looking for an excuse for the entire National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1889	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1890	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon. Please first insert your identification cards into the MPs' units to see if we have a quorum. Since we have a quorum we continue to work. The title above Article 28th and Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1891	Article 28 provides for measures to be expressed only to officials elected to public office. The amendment defines what this measure looks like, but I think it is best to read: "The measure of public publication of the decision of the committee, which recommends that the resignation or initiation of the procedure for the discharge of public officials be given to a public official who has easily crossed over the existence of conflicts of interest and made it possible for himself and other persons to benefit or harm other persons, or in breach of the provisions of this ban law and thereby significantly undermined the dignity of public office. The public publication of a decision recommending the resignation may be made to all public officials and the measure to initiate the discharge procedure only according to the appointed and appointed public officials. The measure referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out by publication of the sentence and a brief explanation of the decision of the Committee in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia and of at least two daily lists within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision to the public official, if the public official does not resign within that period. "This is a measure that differs significantly from the proposed government public publication measure. The public is fully represented. It shall also be notified via the Official Messenger, as an official list of the Republic where all official government documents are published, and over two daily lists of those cases where the public official has severely violated the provisions. rules of conduct prescribed by this law. This way, there's some purpose to the existence of this law. And just to remind the MPs who will vote on these amendments that the SRS is proposing three measures. The first measure is - suspending a part of the salary to the functionary, for three months for certain injuries; the measure of the warning; and the third measure - public publication of this decision, which is recommended, i.e. calls on the public official to resign, if the elected official, i.e. the procedure is initiated before the competent authorities to resolve the functioner. In this way, there is some seriousness of the whole process being conducted before the Republic's authorities. If this seriousness is left behind, then really this law becomes a law for recording property of public officials, which is not bad at all, not bad at all, but with many provisions and a little responsibility that goes through this law should be taken seriously and maintained in some way. I propose to the Members of Parliament that, when voted on these amendments, they bear in mind that this and the previous three amendments form one whole. I draw attention to that, because one of my predecessors said, at this rate - the suspension of part of the pay, that it was a fine. This isn't about fines. As is not the matter of fines when the MP is denied 3,000 dinars of wages due to a measure of caution. It was in the Constitutional Court, just to remind you. The Constitutional Court has not established that these provisions of our Rules of Procedure do not comply with the Constitution. So they exist. The question is whether it is still in place to be in our Rules of Procedure. I see no reason why other public officials, particularly appointed and appointed persons, would be in some way amnesty compared to the MPs. It is not such a situation now, but in the previous assembly, the MP received a fine of 3,000 dinars in five minutes and one second, after he had exceeded only one second. For the word "unsullied" 3,000 dinars. For a few more such words, which have some meaning and are not offensive, these are the MPs brought out of the National Assembly Hall and no one has broken up much in the protection of the MPs. I don't see why these measures we suggested couldn't apply to other public officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1892	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. Necessa Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1893	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 29, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is not among the amendments accepted by the Government, although, by its content, it could certainly be accepted because, in accordance with the amendments adopted and its acceptance, it would not violate the concept of the law itself. The proposed amendment sets out the procedure for the discharge of the members or secretaries of the committee and it reads - the title above Article 29 is deleted, and Article 29 paragraph 1 reads: "For the violation of the provisions of this law against the members of the board and the secretary of the service, the discharge procedure shall be initiated before the National Assembly". In the third word, "the Republic Committee is obliged" is replaced by the words "the board is required". The purpose of this amendment is to allow the National Assembly to assess, in the event of a breach of the provisions of this law, the members or secretaries of the Committee in any particular case whether the infringement is necessary to withdraw and resolve the members of the Committee. The bill before us provides for automation and resolution of board members, in the case of each, or least of the injuries, regardless of the type and severity of the injury. This solution is not good for a few reasons. Several different sanctions, depending on the severity of the injury, are foreseen to violate the provisions of the law by the officials. First, there is a measure of non-public warning for the easiest infringements, so that in practice there may be a situation where a member of a committee who is late in carrying out an obligation, for example, to report his assets and assets of the connected persons, is resolved for the offence, while a member of the same law prescribes that, in the event of the same injury, the official will suffer a penalty of non-public warning. It is obvious that there is a huge disproportion between the penalties envisaged for the same violation of the provisions of the law. This in practice can lead to great abuses. Second, it is illogical that the National Assembly, which elects five of the nine members of this committee, cannot in any way influence their resolution. It would be logical for the National Assembly, as a body choosing those members, to have the opportunity to resolve them. It is a much better solution provided for by the SRS, that the National Assembly itself, of course, in front of the public, determines whether or not a member of the board has committed a certain violation of the law, what nature and injury it is, as well as whether, in view of the nature and severity of the injury, it is possible and meaningful that a member or secretary of the board is doing his duty in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1894	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1895	Ladies and gentlemen, with its 40 amendments to the text submitted to us by the Serbian government for consideration and adoption, the SRS parliamentary group intended to make this government's proposal and essential and legal-technical arrangements for this law to be acceptable and applicable. So I ask my colleagues who have given a flat rate here that the SRS parliamentary group is obstructing the work of this parliament by investing in this number of amendments, that they no longer do so, because we are only doing the work that Serbian citizens have sent us to this parliament. Of course, you don't have to accept our amendments, but it would be nice to respect parliamentary democracy. We also well-intentioned those before you and also intervened with the amendments to the legislative proposals. And then they said that we were obstructing the work, and today it is certainly clear to everyone that we were absolutely right all along, and it will be very soon for everyone to know that we are right and when we are trying to introduce these government proposals into some legal frameworks of our legal system. When it comes to Article 30, I have proposed, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that the title above this article be deleted and that Article 30 be changed, because what is provided for in Article 30 simply means nothing. The Republic Committee, the Government says, is obliged to give public insight into the data and documents on any pressure or inappropriate influence to which the official is exposed in the performance of public functions, etc. We thought that instead of this text should stand exactly what we suggested by the amendment, and that means that through this amendment the work of this committee is serious. It is not just enough that the board is formed and that this committee publicly or unpublically reproves someone because of a potential conflict of interest, but we believe that this committee should work on certain principles. He should bring in specific instructions, warrants, recommendations, he should prescribe forms, run the register. It is simply the essence of this amendment that the committee, which will be formed under this law, will be legally complete, that it has guidelines for work, that it brings guidelines for work and all of this, as I said, instructions, orders, etc. We believe that this amendment in no way touches the essence of your proposal, but we want to help this committee know what to do, in what way to refer it to it through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1896	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, MP Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1897	If it's anyone else, I'd ask Mrs. Radetta to listen to me, because what I have to say is her exposure. If I was mistaken, forgive me. I was under the impression you weren't listening to me. Since I used the word "obstruction," let me interpret what I meant. First of all, may I be allowed to remind you of the meaning of the word amendment. The amendment is a proposal to fix some law, not to vote against it on that basis. Here's a very simple comparison. If you're suggesting that the house be fixed, you're not asking for the house to collapse. If someone refuses to fix the house, it doesn't mean you'll be for her destruction. So, the amendment, by nature of things, can only be a proposal to improve the law, not to obstruct. It is easily possible that SRS MPs are voting for this law. In that case, all of these would be really amendments. But if the MPs of the SRS, because their amendments are not generally adopted, they are against this law, then it's not about amendments, it's about trying to question the law as a whole. So either we're having an argument with the amendment to improve the law or bring it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1898	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe, as well as the parliamentary group of the SRS in general, it is necessary to accept the amendment which has submitted to the Bill's proposal a distinguished colleague, Ms Verica Radeta, who, apart from knowing this issue and entering into the essence of the text of the law itself, which has shown in principle and numerous amendments, wanted all MPs, regardless of what professional qualifications they were, whether academics or not, to whom the parliamentary group belonged, to make it known that the SRS had primarily professional and competent intentions. Not only politically focused on the promoter, the government, which we are disputed for both the questionable majority and its previous behaviour, although it has been a while. As the amendment really wanted to show that it is possible to regulate this area through strict respect and through clear recommendations, which this amendment speaks of, what the Committee should do, with our fundamental remark that the committee must be only republican, that the structure of the committee should be defined in the way that Mrs Pop-Lazic put it today. Given that Mrs Radeta listened carefully to Professor Milosevic when he tried to educate her herself, and probably also to his MPs whose list he had chosen on what was an amendment and when and at what opportunity MPs should behave in such a way, regardless of his calling and what opinion the professional public shares on what he is doing and MPs from his parliamentary group - Professor Milosevic, we are all about the work of the Assembly, this highest legislative body, and the overall political system not only in our society, but also in general, and from all democratic principles learned from a man who is truly a democracy, a human rights fighter, who today is being challenged by the respected professor of the Law Faculty, a Hague prisoner, but in any case the winner and deficient hero of Professor Vojislav Sese.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1900	Replica, MP Nikola Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1901	I'm sure Mrs. Radeta can defend herself, it wasn't necessary for Mrs. Jovanovic to take her protection. She's not so poor and unprotected. Otherwise, as for the evaluation of someone's professional, let's put it this way, similarities, there was a professor of university, an academic or none of it, here's the argument. The arguments don't have any professional identification, they're what they are, they're either good or bad. It wasn't my intention to educate anyone, least of all Mrs. Radet. I know she knows very well what I just reminded her of, but the problem is that she knows very well what the nature of things is the amendment and what the law is. If she got it out of her mind, so I have to remind her, the reasons are other species. The thing is, the amendments here serve to challenge the law, not to fix it. So once again, allow, the amendment serves to fix the law, or improve it, rather than question it. I'm just waiting for the day when there's a vote, so if your party's MPs are voting against this bill, then the amendments have served them not to fix the law but to dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1902	Anybody else answer for a word? The title above article 31 and article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1903	Dear colleagues, since we have directed this little debate in the philosophical direction and have tried logically to interpret what the amendment is and what it serves, all that the distinguished professor said on one side is true. There's that other face of logical thinking, because if we compare the law to one house, and the amendment to the one who wants to fix the house, the question is what happens to the house if the investor refuses to fix the house. Then she has to collapse on her own. We don't want it to collapse, we want it to be completely fixed. That is why, if you have followed our amendments well, we have actually made a proposal for a new law, as we think (what we have the right) that this law should look and what it should be. Of course, it fits somewhat into the concept of the promoter, i.e. the government, and it does not fit, and the government has decided to accept one part of the amendment. She therefore assumed responsibility for the application of this law tomorrow in practice. Therefore, we have nothing to do with this, the overall responsibility is on the proposer, and we have made as much contribution as we could in this debate that this law tomorrow is in practice and worth it. As for the amendment to Article 31, which says that the Republic Committee submits to the National Assembly by 1 March of the current year a report on its work for the previous year, we have intervened in this first position purely for the reasons of the lexical rules, because the principle of time must still be at the end of the sentence, not in the middle of the sentence. Therefore, the view should read, according to us, "The Committee shall report to the National Assembly on its work for the previous year no later than 1 March of the current year". Also, following our amendments that there should be only one committee, without those committees in autonomous provinces and local self-governments, we added item 2: "The Committee particularly reports to the AP Assembly and the local self-government assembly on its work, informs and recommends that the conflict of interest of public officials performing public office in their territory." What did we want with that? We wanted one of the measures envisaged, the measure of public publication of the resolution recommendation, to be practically available to the province's assembly and local self-government parliaments, so that this would be additional pressure on public officials to actually get rid of the resolution, so that the body that appointed it to resolve such a functionator. In this case, the committee, as you have provided for in Article 31, would have the obligation to submit its report to this assembly, and this could go away and so that those local self-government congregations that are interested in some of the officials are not informed of what they should do. We think this extra head doesn't hurt, it doesn't hurt, and it makes a significant contribution to the accuracy of the member himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1904	People's MP, you want a replica? Did you mention that? She misread you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1905	I'm misread. So, I don't want the replica, but I have the right to use it, of course. First I got a little logic education here, so since logic is my narrow waist, let me present something as a logicist. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, someone can't be on one side right, or it can't be exactly what he claims. When you say something is true, it has to be true and it has to be no different. That's what logic lessons are all about. Now allow something about the way my comparison with the house was interpreted. Please, to be clear, if the amendment is a request or a proposal to fix the house, that means - whoever suggests that the house is basically good, it just needs a little repair, and of course, it can't require its collapse unless that repair is accepted. Let's get this straight. Protest, get in the word, I don't mind, just let me finish. So this would now, for example, be my logic education. I don't mind. I think it's your legitimate right to say - the house is no good from the ground, let's tear it down. Please, of course, it's all right. If you're asking for the house to be fixed, it's understood that it's basically good, you can't tear it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1906	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1907	The congregation needs to practice rhetoric, but above all, we need to pass laws. It is the most important function of the National Assembly. The issue of amendments has been resolved by our Rules of Procedure, so it says there – a proposal to amend or to supplement something. What is the motivation of the amendment's promoter, it's his little secret, in the end, that questions its taste. In any case, the amendment also specifies, since by amendment to Article 31, we specify the obligation of the Republic Committee to submit reports. Not only do we report to the National Assembly once a year, but we create an obligation by attitude 2 to submit these recommendations and notifications to the local self - government units and the Autonomous District Assembly. Why? Thanks to our precision at the beginning of the debate on this law, the Proposer has accepted our amendments and instead of three kinds of committees we have practically now one single body - a republican committee. So it was good that we submitted these amendments, pointed to some failures that could happen in practice, and the promoter accepted three or four of our amendments. Not just three or four, but maybe a little more, but it doesn't matter. It is important that we have come to one text that becomes after the vote of the norm, and when it becomes a norm, it commits, it becomes a rule of conduct. We came because the congregation had spoken, proposed, submitted amendments, and, in general, participated in the work of the National Assembly. When the National Assembly is very effective, it usually makes bad laws. We have experience from the previous conference. As far as obstruction is concerned, I just have to tell the MPs who are first in the National Assembly, so they probably don't have experience with the way and style of work in the National Assembly -- after the Constitutional Court's decision, which revised some of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, you see, few people using the right, and all MPs have the right to do so, for each amendment, each individual comes out and talks. If you could tell, there was still some measure. We found it ourselves here. It's not right to spoil that mood. Let's make that standard. You've seen it yourself, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, there's an amendment, maybe another one, and we're moving on. If anyone provokes obstruction... I'll just remind you of the parliamentary practice in this assembly. Take the ordinary law of five members, let 100 MPs appear per member and each of them submit one amendment each, you will see that in two months, the law of five members will not pass. That situation with this law isn't. Let's preserve this good parliamentary practice that we're starting to build. Don't let us interpret what anyone wanted with the amendment to accomplish. We told you at first - we have tried to convince you with amendments that this idea that you represent can be more precise and better arranged with 35-36 members. So the SRS doesn't break this law, the SRS just pleads to adopt our amendments because of some quality they certainly have. After all, the promoters also said that it might be a slightly different concept of the same problem to prevent conflict of interest. As you can see, by amendment to Article 31, we practically oblige the Republic Committee to inform the other congregations about its work, about observations, because probably 99% of the acts, the general acts that will apply this Republic's committee, he himself should bring. Probably all public officials and public officials should be familiar with these acts too, so that they do not come before the elections to the public function they are doing, so I am simply surprised that the promoter did not accept this amendment, as it is expanding. I don't think it's a good idea for some sublegal act to regulate the obligation to inform the other congregations. Not good, team, before you accepted the amendment that there was only a republican committee. You probably missed that. This amendment could be adopted, since it is completely compatible with the concept of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1908	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The promoter has adopted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Krstin. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1909	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have learned today from the afternoon part of our work on committees that the law has been modified by the acceptance of the amendments of colleagues from the SRS, so these amendments we have proposed for the earlier text, Article. 32, 33 and 34, really needless to discuss this moment. I'm withdrawing the amendment I gave to Article 32. However, I would suggest, for the sake of better parliamentary practice and debates in the future, that we stick to the Rules of Procedure, or to Article 143, which, in this case, the Government, would, at the moment when amendments have already been established, especially when the concept text of the law is amended, give us the amendment before the debate, as in Article 143. The Rules of Procedure, so they wouldn't discuss the provisions of laws that are practically no longer, literally, in play.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1910	Since the amendment has been withdrawn, let's go to the next one. The title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The promoter has adopted the amendment. The title above article 34 and article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The promoter has accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please, MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1911	I think I've come up with an amendment that the minister wouldn't have to accept. My amendment concerns article 2 of Article 34 and proposes that the following provision be deleted: "If the Republic Committee assesses that the province or local committees are acting contrary to the law, regulations and opinions of the Republic Committee, it may publish a public recommendation to the assembly of an autonomous province, i.e. the municipality, the city or the city of Belgrade, to resolve the members of the circuit, or local committee." I have submitted this amendment because it is contrary to Article 3(4), which reads: "The committees are independent and independent bodies... "and so on. We put this committee here to control them in some way and evaluate them. However, I have heard, but I still don't know if it's true, since we haven't heard from Mr. Ministers who have been adopted, so that we now know the number of amendments and members that apply and which is exactly the amendment, but if it's true that everything is reduced to one committee, this amendment must be adopted, to make the law look decent. There are many mistakes in the law that have not been corrected by amendments, and I have heard that it will be a technical editorial, but we probably all know that this is not how the technical editorial is done, but that the proposed law is changed by amendments. That's why I think in the end the minister will have to adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1912	Is there anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1913	Mrs. Trifunovic, I was just about to promise you that we will accept this amendment of yours and we will vote for it, but since the minister has accepted Mr. Momir Markovic's previous amendment, the whole article of the 34th is deleted, so we will not be able to accept it. We apologize for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1914	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I submitted to article 35 in front of the SRS parliamentary group provides for the title to be deleted above article 35, and Article 1 to be amended and read as follows: "Members and chairman of the board will be elected within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law." This is one of the amendments that follows these accepted amendments essentially and conceptally, so I do not understand why it is not accepted, especially which in this case would be unnecessary to regulate these members, because, among other things, my amendment in the position of the 2nd word "republic" and "republic" are deleted, and in paragraph 3, which provides that rural and local committees will be set up within 60 days, and which are accepted by the amendment, was submitted by counterpart Markovic, deleted, so I really do not understand why this is not accepted. I have to say a few more words about the amendments submitted by the SRS, first of all to Mr Milosevic, because if the house was right, believe me, we would not, as many as 37 members as this law has, file more than 40 amendments. We built this house, Mr. Milosevic, from the ground up. So we weren't changing the ticks, we were changing it from the ground up. Secondly, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic did not go out to defend Verica, because the Verica Radeta, thank God, is neither poor nor unprotected, as you say, nor has she seen your exposure as an attack on herself. Believe me, we've come to the conclusion in communication that you're really one of the most likable blankets and we've even been worried that someone else might go out to this pay phone on you and on your health to influence you, but we had to... (President: Please keep an eye on the terms you use, otherwise you will really get a warning. ) Look, really, I wouldn't say anything to Mr. Milosevic, I really respect older people, I even realized that I liked him. But to better understand the essence of parliamentaryism, how the SRS MPs will ultimately vote on this law depends on which amendments we will be accepted and what this legal text will eventually look like. So, in the previous period and in the previous meeting of this assembly, we have listened to many who have said that amendments to the SRS are obstructions and that they are destructive, but, Mr Milosevic, like our amendments, will judge the people in the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1916	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Milosevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1917	If I'm one of the most likable blankets, a young gentleman could be, say, extremely likable to my grandson. But, dear young sir, neither am I here as a grandfather, nor are you as a grandson, I am here as a MP, regardless of my age. As for my age, you can respect them or not, it's a matter of your domestic education. Rest assured, if you were my grandson, you would have learned that lesson from your home education already, but if I can't teach you, the ladies of your party will certainly teach you that, if there is any point to it. [[Applause]] As for Mrs. Radete, I didn't think at all that she was poor and unprotected, on the contrary, I said that she can defend herself; I respect her very much, she's a eloquent woman and it was completely unnecessary for you and Mrs. Radet to get in my way. You're a pretty naughty grandson, you're very naughty, you're serious. Okay, if I'm a grandpa, I can give you some lessons from this pay phone, and it's yours whether it's gonna teach you or not. As for those famous houses, you can suggest 37 repairs, it still means that the house is basically good and that it doesn't have to collapse, because it would otherwise be repaired. The house that needs to be torn down doesn't fix, it collapses immediately. So, please, these 37 repairs can only be with the goal of bringing the house down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1918	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The title above article 36 and article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1919	Ladies and gentlemen, not now entering these problems of buildings, which have been being debated here for hours, I would like to say that we are not contesting the proposal's intention to fix in a particular area what today in Serbia is called a serious moral crisis, corruption and crime that rules this country. It is not disputed that the crisis had to and corruption was a way of acting, unfortunately in Serbia, from the very top of the government to the ordinary human needs of life. So we just want to point out that for the last three years in Serbia, there has been a terrible awakening of the crisis of morality, corruption and crime, and that this is the consequence, above all, of the post-revolutionary period on the one hand, and on the other hand, of the total politicisation of all life functions and of all that is happening in this country. What we now want to do with this law is very little or nothing, and in practice practically inconclusive, without results, one demagogue law that needs to show that this government wants to do something about it, but essentially nothing contributes. It was to begin to prove its desire to depolitise things, to fight possible corruption, by introducing other parties into the ministries. By deciding that the ministries are strictly political, in the sense that only one party is in charge of some ministry, the government shows that it has no desire to fight corruption and to correct some, in the past, accumulated problems. Therefore, the depolitisation of society should start from the beginning, in fact the first step should be to fight what is called a great social evil. I can't figure out why the Proposer didn't accept my amendment to Article 36, which in Section 2 suggests what we've already said and what's the basic goal, to fix something in this, that there's only one committee in the Republic that deals with conflict of interest. So, it's already accepted, and the motioner doesn't accept it again and the amendment remains rejected. I don't know if it's an oversight or if it hasn't been read.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1920	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The promoter has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 37th. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1921	Madam Chairman, there is some kind of disturbance atmosphere in the ranks of your parliamentary groups, but I don't mind giving you the final word regarding this law and Article 37, although we understand what is going on and how it works, that is, your coalition doesn't function and what your further intentions for the course of the session are. We'll talk about this later when you make some of the moves you've agreed on. As for Article 37, I must tell Mr. Minister and the MPs that the overall claim of the SRS that our law was absolutely precise, competent and professional through the amendments was made, that is, our intention was to fix it and this is seen in the non-admission of the amendment to Article 37, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Mr Minister, that you have accepted the amendment to Article 3 which I have also submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which one of the position parties has declared will accept, that it is very high-quality and good, which clearly defines who the public officials are, taxingly listed, and in attitude 2, it is said that there should be only one, the Republic Committee, then you would have to follow the entire course of the law, or the amendment of Serbian radicals to follow from Articles 3 to 37. This is how you may think, perfidously, that you have thus jumped the MPs of the SRS, but you have done nothing good for the law; you have set out from the amendment of fellow Members of Momir Markovic to Article 34, instead of starting from Article 3 where it is clearly said who are public officials. And again, let me tell you -- it was very important that you replace the word "execution" and put the word "public" in front of the word "functioner," because it's in spirit with our legal terminology. No, you didn't want it, but after general criticism of the SRS MPs and realizing that it was a great cost for the state, that our suspicions were justified that these committees would work in quality, that they would spend a billion and 500 million, some of the budgets, from the municipal, regional and republican budgets, brought it down to one of the republican committees, and that you came from the MP Momir Markovic, or from Article 34. This is the whole point, and instead of accepting the SRS amendment to Article 3 you subsequently accepted the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration on 13 April. Therefore, our claim that the amendments wanted to fix this legislative proposal is correct and does not mean anything that you accepted three or four amendments to the SRS, which is only 5% of the 21 you calculated. And when it comes to accuracy and logical reasoning, since we are at the end of the debate on the law in particular, it is only one thing, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, that even though you did not want to listen to what we have told you and did not accept all our amendments, our people will know logically, properly and on their conscience that they will decide and know that June 13th should go out in large numbers at the polls and choose Tomislav Nikolic as president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1922	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1923	You know how, the meaning of the amendment, which reads that the title above the member is deleted, and the meaning of all the amendments that contain such a thesis that the text of the law needs to be fixed in style, hide each other's dangers. So we're discussing this amendment, and at the same time we're talking about something that's broader than that. Imagine that you have one wording of an amendment that makes for a coherent continent, which contains in itself erasing the title as a style move, and below that contains one meaningful text that could in principle be acceptable. Because the amendment makes the whole, for that reason the style lesson that someone here wants someone to, they can't be accepted in technical terms. Keep that in mind. If we talk about some amendments to the SRS being accepted, they are accepted because someone who is the legislator of this law thinks that they are basically good, that they offer an improvement in this text. Don't be malice about it, I'm asking you most nicely. This means that these amendments offer some benefit, some convenience in relation to this text, but that does not necessarily mean, nor will they ever mean in this home, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that all amendments of one parliamentary group must be accepted in an ultimate manner. Where's that? Then that's not fixing the text. Then we should switch roles and then the SRS should propose its own bill, and then we should vote on it, so we can make amendments. Even if we had made amendments to such a bill, we probably wouldn't have insisted that we all be accepted. There's something that was acceptable to the promoter, something not. What was acceptable and what the promoter thought was of great importance to be accepted conditioned certain changes further in the text, which will later be said, and that is quite normal, so let's not stick to this kind of demagogy. Let's talk about the law in a normal way. We're submitting amendments. I'm not going to share them personally on the non-supervised, malicious or well-intentioned. They are who they are, but don't give them any other meaning than what they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1924	Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1925	I'd just like to ask you, when you're talking about demagogy and hypocrisy, don't look at yourself in the mirror. You're here to say that some amendments were accepted and some were not accepted. Well, we don't have the opinion of the promoter. You're talking about yourself as someone who's accepted the amendments. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have her report, what's accepted and what's not. We have reports from the board, what the committees have accepted. We have not heard from the Proposer at all about this bill That's another thing. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Now... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Next, don't think at all that we have a desire for you to accept our amendments. We're writing amendments to show what the SRS wants. That's the purpose of our amendments. And, it's not the purpose of our amendments for you to fix the law with our amendments, because then we could say, take it or leave it, or accept all our amendments or don't do any, spoil our concept. Just as you claim that some of your amendments are corrupting your concept, so you're spoiling our concept by accepting some of the amendments and not accepting some. All our amendments have connections, everyone has meaning, the whole law is being watched. It even happens that when we write the amendment, we go back to some member, so we say, this one will be pointless, so somebody says, what do we care, they won't accept this, we go all the way to clean up the law. If you had accepted all the amendments, it would have been a law with which the SRS parliamentary group is in agreement. Since you did not accept (or will not vote), then you now have before you a bill that is yours, your program, your idea, what you would like, provide the majority and vote. But don't make the mistakes that the authorities have made before you, to criticize those who write the amendments. I hear there was someone else today who dared to criticize that kind of thing. And, right now, as soon as someone writes the amendments, you say obstruction, and you deliver the law to us two days before the session so there won't be obstructions. And what's better? What's better is that you send us the law in time, even if we write the amendments, or you don't deliver the law in time, so we don't write the amendments, and then we show that it's actually a very bad law. Whatever government comes here she accuses the SRS of stopping the reforms. And I remind you, and those who criticised the radicals this morning to stop their discussions on reforms did not tell the government of Zoran Djindjic -- we will not touch you, you are conducting reforms, but were criticising and stopping the government's reforms. Our goal is to stop the reforms you're conducting. In our opinion, they're not good. Let us exercise our right to do so at a pay phone. It's much better than burning bulldozers and those machines available to each opposition since October 5th and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1926	Mr. Nikolic, you called in the amendment discussion and you used a pay phone or I don't know what you were using it for. Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic. No, you didn't say you were responding to the replica (received to Ambassador Nikolic). (Never, from the place: no one asked me.) I asked you, who else appears on the basis of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1927	When you talk about hypocrisy and mirror, you probably didn't think of me at that time, because when I spoke a little bit, I was talking about the bill promoter and you know very well, if you're following the course of the debate, and you can hardly, when you're not here all day, that this bill has not been submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, nor have I signed it. The bill was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when I spoke about accepting or not accepting amendments, only commenting on what was happening during the debate. On the other hand, if you were to attend the session, as many MPs of your SRS attend, you could see what is going on during the debate on details, so you would see that on a specific issue the Prime Minister accepts or does not accept a particular amendment. You could also be informed about what was going on on the Justice and Administration Committee and what was going on on the Legislative Committee. So that's the real truth in this thing. Let go of this other story.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1928	The injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been made by the MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1929	Insolently injured is Article 100(1), the dignity of the National Assembly is not respected. I said the proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but if I have to sit in the hall all the time, there's no one to beat you in the presidential election, that's the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1930	In the discussion of the amendment, MP Branislav Ristivojevic, please. (Serb Radical Party emissaries applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1931	Thank you very much for this applause, I didn't realize that just my appearance at the pay phone was causing such an eruption of pleasure. I will try to calm the ball down a little bit about this debate and say on the subject of this amendment -- ever since the assembly majority was formed in this room and when around who will form the government, who will be in opposition, we heard from the ranks of the position and opposition very interesting settings about what should be and what the role of the opposition should be in this parliament. We agreed more or less that the real role and right place of the opposition was to be that critical reviewer of the government's work. Let's just say, all the amendments that the SRS has made in both this and the previous laws, I'm actually experiencing it that way. It is indeed a kind of real critical, consistent, completely rounded and comprehensive review of the government's work. I really don't see him as any distraction, as a certain kind of demagogue approach to this problem, etc. I really don't see why the problem is that out of all of your, critically reassessed amendments, we can't take out five or ten good ones, because they're not all good. Really, don't mind me, but since the 40 amendments you've filed on this bill, one part simply isn't good. What do we do to him, it's what it is. But there's what's good, what's good, what's good. Why don't we accept what's quality? Look, everything that comes from the opposition doesn't have to be bad. It's about time that this way of thinking in this congregation stopped once and for all. These barriers that exist are just random, between position and opposition. If something of quality comes, regardless of which MP, regardless of which party, such a thing should be adopted. It seems to me that the government is here by such an approach and has shown that there is no such clear difference here, there are no Berlin walls, dug trenches between the position and the opposition. What comes as quality doesn't matter where it comes from or where it comes from; it has no sign of a party, it has only a quality omen or no quality omen. As for Mr Nikolic's claim to a respected colleague that the proposal has not been made clear on these amendments - it is, probably just because you didn't know. He was a representative of the Proposer on the Committee on Justice and declared himself on the amendments submitted, and accepted 21 amendments out of the total. These amendments have become an integral part of the bill. Among them are some six or seven amendments submitted by distinguished colleagues, representatives of the SRS; I am convinced that these are quality amendments and that they will improve, improve and that the final result will be practically more circular and comprehensive, a better proposal of this law, which has otherwise come to us quality and quite good in this assembly. I don't see any reason why this kind of work doesn't happen again in the future and don't go on. This, believe me, is really a good example of how it should work here in the future. Why wouldn't the SRS continue to contribute to the quality of this Parliament's work with its quality proposals? Don't put yourself in a position to lock yourself up in some opposition ghetto, not to want to communicate with the position, to criticise the government's work. That's quite the point. That's when this House gets its full purpose. Only then will we be able to move forward as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1932	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask my colleagues from the SRS to applaud whenever someone from the Democratic Party of Serbia comes out for this pay phone, let people feed their vanity a little bit, because I don't believe that they can gather more than 250 people in this room today. So let them practice a little bit. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is indeed, I must say, and perhaps the term is not appropriate, Imbecilically, to stand above one member - the final provision. Please, Mr. Aligrudic, don't consider yourself the smartest. It is not at all legal practice that such a thing exists in the law. You've made numerous failures, purely legal-technical. Well, you speak on behalf of the promoter, and the minister is here and I believe he would agree as professor of law school. If he's a functioner, he has to be a public official. So it has to be an accepted amendment. If it's a duty, it can't be done, it's done. The performer performs, and the function is performed. You simply don't want to take care of basic legal and technical matters. There may not be time for the promoter to do so, but there is a Legislative Secretariat that would have to take care of that. It doesn't seem to work, and therefore our laws don't look what they're supposed to look like. It is important for the translator to translate some of the provisions of the comparative right of a law from our closer or further environment, but some lawyer has to look at it and make it our legal practice. Do not dispute the right to submit amendments to any parliamentary group. Don't appeal to us and reach some consensus with the SRS on issues like this, because you can't do that. You don't need SRS votes to pass a bill. It is your right to propose and adopt what you want, and it is our right to criticise it; in fact, it is our only goal and thus to point out to the public what we stand for. When you put on the agenda the bill submitted by the SRS, and there are... Mr. Krassic, how much? Four, five, six, I don't know exactly... (President: I just remind you that you have reached out for the amendment, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. () As did previous colleagues. Then you'll be able to submit amendments to the SRS bill and then we'll have in mind what you want. Therefore, we are all legitimately acting here according to what our voters expect of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1934	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic, direct mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1935	I don't know how many times I have to mention I'm not a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this assembly. When I speak, I speak for myself, as a messenger of the people. This law has been read by all MPs. You read it, I read it, and we had a chance to react to the amendments. I have submitted five amendments to this bill myself. They were accepted by the proponents, as well as some of the amendments by the SRS MPs. So that's the whole truth. Don't replace the thesis and invent some things that don't stand. So, it's just that I'm not anybody's lawyer. Here I speak for myself, as a People's MP, and I am talking about the bill that you all have ahead of you, which you have read and I hope you have certain objections to it that I have had. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1936	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1937	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on conflict of interest is clearly one of the necessary laws. The very number of amendments that have been submitted to this law says that there is great interest in this law. Of course, the discussion in the end did little to spoil the impression that certain amendments to certain MPs were well - intentioned. Although the law has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, New Serbia has tabled certain amendments, believing that this law should be done in such a way as to be a really adequate law and wanting this law to be corrected. Of course, as an MP, I realized that all the amendments had just been submitted for these reasons to be well-intentioned on this law, but at the end of the debate on this agenda point in some way, that the impression had been corrupted, so it turned out that a good number of MPs had submitted their amendment just to kind of promote themselves or their party. I think it is not good and that this assembly should be different from the previous assembly, that this government should differ from the previous government, because the government is ready to accept amendments from any parliamentary groups to improve the law. Of course, the congregation has a different view than the previous congregation, which in some ways ignored everything that came from opposition parties. For these reasons, I believe that this number of amendments has shown great interest. Of course, I hope that the committees have also accepted that the MPs of some amendment will accept, in order for this law to be a good and comprehensive law, which would, at the very least, regulate the work of officials during their term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1938	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1939	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is not unconventional to propose such an amendment, and I think that we are wasting our time in interpreting what constitutional provisions are and what is parliamentary law in this assembly. The parliamentary right is to submit an amendment, to amend or supplement a certain provision of the law. The legitimacy for this was given by citizens in the direct elections, as the legitimacy will give citizens to our presidential candidate Boris Tadic in the June 13th presidential elections. Anyway, I'm obliged to respond to a colleague who spoke before me. So it is completely incorrect that there was no will and mood to adopt amendments in the previous assembly. On the contrary, any law adopted amendments to the opposition, depending on whether they were in accordance with the concept of the law or not. We have even heard of a pay phone here, or it could have been concluded from some exhibitions, that in the previous term the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts was not funded. I asked the Ministry of Finance and it is my obligation to state that the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts was an indirect budget user based on IFAC 16 international standards and Article 8. The budget system law, which established criteria, divided into direct and indirect budgetary users. So, as the department of the Ministry of Science and Technology financed the Serbian Academy of Science, regular costs and projects were paid, as well as other scientific institutions. So there was this funding, and it wasn't just funding that went beyond the world standards, on the contrary, just on the basis of world standards, that kind of funding was introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1940	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1941	I must admit that I am enriched by the knowledge that there is a way to be indirect on some budget. You know, you're either on the budget directly or you're not. This indirectly means, Mr. Pajtic, that's what you were going to say, if that's what you wanted, that's what you should have said, and that's what you didn't say, and you were obliged to say, that the Academy was removed from the Serbian government's budget and that it was funded through the Ministry of Science. Mr. Pitch, you know what that means? When you get out of the budget money, then you in the Academy yourself judge what you will fund and how much money you will spare for it. That's direct. It's indirect when you go to your science minister's feet, so he decides if you're going to get any money for a project at all, if you're going to get it, how many of them you're going to get. So that means indirectly, that means actually taking the SANU directly off the state budget. Mr. Pajtic, for your knowledge and alignment, indeed Serbia was, fortunately no longer, the only state in which the highest cultural institution was not on the budget of the same state. It wasn't just SANU, so it was with Matica Sr., Mr. Pajtic, and think about what's common between SANU and Matica in Serbian, that Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1942	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1943	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. A Rules of Procedure, which protects the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Milosevic, you said in your previous presentation that no one here is a student, nor a teacher, nor a grandfather, nor a grandson, we are the MPs here. So there's no need for you to teach me, it's enough to read the Budgetary System Act, where exactly there's a definition of direct and indirect users. So it is enough to read, and it is not enough to play teacher for the congregation speaker. There are indirect users. The funds are approved on the basis of projects. These funds are approved not only for those NGOs and institutions whose founder is not a state, but for some other institutions defined by that law. It's based on international standards. So it's completely incorrect, on the contrary, just by respecting international standards, this way of funding has been introduced through projects and ongoing maintenance has been introduced, i.e. the costs necessary for the operation of SANU. It is an international standard. About what's Serbian, please, we can compare family history, so let's see if you're not competent to warn me about that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1944	No more, the replica was provoked. Here you go, Xenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1945	So, I'm going to try to get back to the amendment debate, because somehow I think we're off the subject, which is nothing unusual for this assembly. I would like to say that, on the one hand, it is, of course, absolutely the undisputed right of every MP's group to submit a thousand amendments, if that's what they want. It's everyone's right, whether it's legal-technical or essential amendments. In this regard, I would only mention that the G17 Plus parliamentary group has submitted several amendments to this law and not all have been accepted. Therefore, there is absolutely no discrimination or selection in accepting certain amendments. In addition, we believe, and we remain in that position, that this law is necessary to pass, that this is a law that we need years ago and that it is indeed high time for such a law to be passed. And, of course, in addition to not being accepted, I expect that they will be supported by MPs in parliament, and that does not change their significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1946	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Board of Justice and Administration, as referred to in Article 144 and as regards Article 140, paragraphs 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted the following amendments, precisely because of the acceptance of amendments to the Members of the People's Parliaments: an amendment to the heading above Article 3 and Article 3 of the "Competitive Committee" replaces the words "Republic Committee" in an appropriate decline; an amendment to Article 12(4); an amendment to Article 18(1); an amendment to the title of Chapter VI; an amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32; an amendment to the title above Articles 33 and 33; an amendment to Article 35(3) and the amendment to Article 36(2). Since the amendments were adopted by the proposing representative, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, I find that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last time I'm going to address you, and I can't help but start the way I first spoke to you. After this exhausting debate, listening to a full three-day discussion in principle and amendments, believe me, I cannot help but express a certain amount of satisfaction, as it seems to me that for the first time in our political life there is complete understanding for certain quality attitudes coming from the authorities and by the opposition. I promised you in the opening part that many amendments that by their quality nature and their concept deserve to be respected and respected, regardless of which parties they came from. Tonight, at the end of the debate, we had plenty of opportunities to hear about the nature of amendments submitted and one, and the other and third political parties represented in the Serbian Parliament. For me, as a representative of the legislator of this law, it was not important from which parliamentary groups of amendments came, which is best said by the fact that I told you today, how percentageally respected whose amendments are. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs may have been surprised, in addition to my opening words that can be attributed to political courtosia, that you still have some amendments. Remember the few years of political life behind you, sitting here in parliamentary benches, when the last time the government adopted any amendment to the opposition in such an important bill. Today, in this debate, a total of 20 per cent of the opposition's amendments were accepted. Even some amendments that are conceptual are accepted. They were accepted for reasons, as I said at the beginning of my speech about this law, what this should be our law and yours, because the evil called corruption of state officials in Serbia is the evil of Serbian citizens. I cannot believe that any official who participates in political life will deafen himself, that he will not vote in favour of this law simply because he is a formal proponent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia promised this law a month ago here, behind this pay phone, and it keeps its promise. I am convinced that in the day of the vote, you too will express your obligation to the citizens of Serbia. To speak now of amendments that are essential in nature and that because of them cannot be voted for such an important law, I think it is pointless, because some things concern terms; whether Serbian citizens from this speaker should be convinced today that they cannot vote for the law because it regulates the conflict of the interests of officials, and we want to regulate the conflict of interests of public officials. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you think that's essential to the conflict of interest law? Out of respect for this speaker, I will not lecture you on the difference between officials and public officials. So the officials that are regulated by this law are all those who are chosen, appointed, or appointed. Public officials are also you, but also those not covered by the law, and they are at the head of many public institutions in Serbia. The subject of this law is something of a rope. Also, I will not tell you how important it is for the citizens of Serbia that the conflict of interest is not achieved in the exercise of state functions, but in the course of its performance. It's very important. Because it is very important, I believe that, because of the citizens of Serbia, in the day of voting, you will support this government proposal, which not only showed that it holds its word at the time of the election, but will show that on the right things this is not so-called. The minority government, but that it can get the support of a vast majority, responsible MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1948	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled exaggeration on the draft laws proposed by MP Goran Paunovic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: -Laws on the regulation of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's obligations under loans for economic development, amendments to the Guarantee Fund's laws and to the law on payment traffic (joint principle search) Does the Proposer's representative want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1949	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take the opportunity to present the proposals of these three laws briefly. The first law in front of you is the law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development. It's about a commitment that's almost 15 years old. You remember that loan was announced in 1989 and the obligation of the state to settle all old debts. As the state has set out to settle its obligations under the old foreign savings, the only major commitment of the state that has not been settled so far is the obligation under this loan. This government is proposing that this obligation also begin to be reconciled by this law. It is the value of the debt to the citizens of Serbia of 56m euros. It consists of dedicated foreign deposits amounting to 40m euros and bonds in foreign currency of 16m euros. We predicted that the total commitment would be paid within four years, given the budgetary constraints, so that the total payment would be completed in 2007. As far as payment dynamics are concerned, a similar rate and method of payment is foreseen as for the payment of the old foreign exchange savings. Every 31 August of this year, ending in 2007 would be the payment of these commitments, with a commitment of up to 530 euros this year, up to 1060 euros next year, 5,000 euros in 2006 and 2007 what remains until the final payment amount. I would like to say that 56m euros in commitment also includes interest per rate of 2% per year from the date of issue of the bond until the maturity date, so from 1989 to today, and this is the same interest rate that is calculated on the liabilities on the basis of old foreign savings. In this law, it has been defined that the application will be made. Therefore, after the publication and adoption of the law within 60 days, Serbian citizens will be able to file a claim, with the claim under certain conditions not becoming obsolete for another year. After that, a conversion of debt into electronic bonds will be made. The bonds will vote on the euro and will be paid in euros. Also, the law provides for special rights from these bonds. They can also be used before the deadline for payment of treatment costs, the purchase of medicines, funeral costs, the purchase of shares in the privatisation process, the purchase of real estate. As for bond payments, they will be made by a bank from the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be elected in the public tender procedure. So this law corrects one of the injustices done in the previous period and, on the other hand, we want to strengthen the credibility of the government. Only if we pay off the old debt can we expect citizens to buy bonds from the vault in the next period. Just like when savings were calmed down, only when the old savings -- they started to settle down, were citizens going back to saving in banks. We expect that when we settle this debt, when we start to settle down, citizens will also regain their accumulated trust in the state and start re-purchasing charters of values issued by the state and borrowing on the capital market, as you know, is the way in which all modern states finance their budget deficit. That's why we need this law to restore trust. The second law before you, which will be held in a united debate, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act. The Republika Srpska Guarantee Fund was established last year. It aims to secure bank loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia is now proposing to amend this law, so that loans that will be secured from the Guarantee Fund other than legal persons can also be obtained by farmers. In fact, the previous law stipulates that only legal entities can get credit insurance. Farmers who are natural persons, peasants, could not be covered by the previous law. We are now supplementing this by explicitly introducing the possibility of providing credit for farmers. Also, the law specifies the total amount of guarantees that can be provided from this fund. Therefore, the Fund can provide bank loans of up to two and a half times the capital of the Fund. The strict rules of credit insurance control are introduced, so that according to a single bank, exposure can be only up to 20%, and according to the individual legal person up to 5% of the capital amount. I must remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the budget for this year has forecasted a billion and a half dinars for the work of the Guarantee Fund. The amendments and additions to this law will allow far more efficient loan insurance not only for small and medium-sized enterprises but also for farmers, but I must stress another category, the Guarantee Fund will also start to provide loans in underdeveloped areas. Unlike the previous law establishing insurance limits up to 50%, this law does not provide for such restrictions, but rather the Fund's special rules will limit insurance. In fact, our proposal is to secure a loan for agriculture guarantees of up to 80%, because it is an area that we need to speed up, and the same is true for insurance of loans for underdeveloped areas. As far as loans for small and medium-sized enterprises in other regions of the country are concerned, the amount of guarantee the banks will continue to give will be up to 50%. In this way, we expect the state to help bring down interest rates, up to longer repayment deadlines, and to stimulate the development of agriculture, small and medium-sized enterprises and underdeveloped areas. Finally, the third law in front of you is an amendment to the Law on Payments. As you know, since 1 January 2003, payment traffic has been transferred from the Office for Accounting and Payment to Business Banks. Some shortcomings have been observed in the law's implementation so far, and they are being eliminated by this law. First of all, shortcomings in the mandatory collection process by the National Bank of Serbia, as well as in the process of collecting data on company financial reports, have been observed. With this law, we remove all shortcomings that have been observed in the work of business banks. Given that under the current constitution of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia cannot be a legislator, that is why the Ministry of Finance appears as a legislator of this law. This law is fully in line with the National Bank of Serbia and its adoption will give us a far more efficient functioning of payment traffic which, by the way, seems to be working pretty well, but some of the shortcomings observed in this law will be removed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1950	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, we're doing another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman... (President: I'm sorry, I'd just like to ask you to use your right for the first 10 minutes, since we're at the end of hours). I will, of course, use 10 minutes of rights as an authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. I must say immediately that the DS will support all three laws under the second item of the agenda. I want to make it more comprehensive, by discussing the Guarantee Fund Act, to point to three possible shortcomings that may in any case have bad consequences for the functioning of the Guarantee Fund tomorrow. The first, for me and the DS parliamentary group, is indeed inexplicable, a way to transfer information on the Guarantee Fund from the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation to the Ministry of Finance. Although the answer to the question I raised on the committee was that the task, i.e. the part-time responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, was actually the provision of credit, I believe that the job carried out by the Guarantee Fund in a direct connection primarily with the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and with the incentive of entrepreneurship. As you know, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of entrepreneurship is part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, it is illogical for us, although of course it is within the government coalition, which is currently in power, or political parties, to make key proposals, from defining the human resources, to make key decisions, or define and propose the Ministry of Finance, and later adopts the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that a previous solution should remain, because, once again, the work of the Guarantee Fund is directly linked to the realisation of the Small and Medium Business Development Strategy and the incentives of entrepreneurship. Secondly, it is said in one place that in exceptional cases the government can decide on guarantees. We think it can be, if this isn't used as an exception, but as a rule, and above the defined amount that, I think, is 2.5 times greater than the total guarantee potential of the Fund. We believe that this should not stand in the law, however, we leave freedom to the legislator, because in this way it threatens, on the one hand, the independence of the institution of the Guarantee Fund, and that of the individual decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you once again, the Guarantee Fund has just been established under the law, not under the regulation, and therefore there must be a demarcation line between the operational decisions taken by the Guarantee Fund and, on the other hand, the Government. Thirdly, I was distracted by the solution given by the amendments to the Guarantee Fund Act, which refers to the placement of the Free Fund's free funds. It is good for the Guarantee Fund to place its resources by buying bonds of old foreign currency savings, but it is not good for the Guarantee Fund to place funds by buying other paper from the values of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and why? Because the first show is defined by a clear law on the return of foreign savings, old and stolen foreign exchange savings, but on the other hand, direct purchase of securities from value will make it clear that in the extortion of the necessary funds, so-called. budget inflows to finance budget spending, some decisions that the Guarantee Fund will actually make will be caused by pressure from the government. This is why we strongly advise that the Guarantee Fund is making less use of the ability to buy paper from the government’s values, which are actually not bonds of old foreign exchange savings; or, even more picturesquely, if the budget is short-term inflows, and previously transfer money to the Guarantee Fund, these funds will be used as a guarantee potential in the extortion of budget inflows will actually be used to buy short-term securities from the values that the budget emits. In this way, the same money will "walk" and go back, and a picture will be created that the Guarantee Fund has some of its activities. Believe me, it's not good and this is also a very dangerous exception that could jeopardize tomorrow's functioning of the Guarantee Fund. Once again, the Guarantee Fund is one in a series of institutions designed to implement the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy, so it is perfectly natural that the key decisions relating to the establishment of the Guarantee Fund, the expansion of the credit portfolio, or guarantee portfolio, are proposed by the Ministry of Economy, not the Ministry of Finance. It is an intra-coalization thing between coalition partners, I'm just pointing to the illogicality of these defined changes. As regards the law relating to payment traffic, the DS has absolutely no objections, since it is an old legal text that the previous government referred to the Assembly and the harmonisation of one process that was launched in January 2004, which is the transfer of full payment turnover to banks. In the end, we believe that the law on repaying loans for economic rebirth to those of our citizens who paid their money in 1989, trusted then, thinking that it was a responsible policy, a good move, and that is also a text that was previously prepared by the previous government. I think it's good to say in this place that it's a much bigger problem, which is the vomit of old foreign savings, successfully realised in the past few years. It seems to me that in its annual amount, it is about four or five times the total commitment that exists on the basis of the repayment of loans for the economic rebirth of Serbia. This is the correcting of another historical injustice made to the population, which at one point believed in populist phrases that it is possible to be a closed economy, to finance ourselves, to finance our growth, to grow the economy, to completely out of contact with the world. I don't think it's bad in this place to repeat the experience the country has with a loan for Serbia's economic rebirth, with the way that money is placed and with the ultimate effect. The final effect is, unfortunately, the same as in the old foreign savings, which means the money that was placed in the failed enterprises, which were not ready to be restructured, in a way that neither was public nor was transparent, nor was there any information flow on how the funds were placed. So money, which was slightly stolen from a population that trusted a populist policy. I hope that 13 or 14 years later, the public in Serbia is more mature and that today they will not be ready to believe in new populism and new stories about how we can do everything ourselves, that we do not need help, because if this political demagogy prevails, in five or ten years, we will have similar laws that will correct historical delusions again, as this has been a delusion of self-financed economic growth in a situation where our country's economy was primarily in need of a transitory transition to the market economy. To conclude, we have objections to the Guarantee Fund Act. We don't think they're like that that's why the Democratic Party should not vote to amend the Guarantee Fund Act. We believe that the essence and concept approach when the Guarantee Fund is formed has not changed and that is why we will support it, but we believe that the legislator and those who run the economic policy, especially the development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises, should think carefully about whether some postulates will use tomorrow in the operational functioning of the Guarantee Fund. We will support a law that finally means a alignment with the previous process of transfer of payment traffic to commercial banks. And, quite finally, the initiative to repay loans to Serbia's economic rebirth is something that fits into the policy that the previous government led. I will remind you once again, the biggest portion and the biggest return has just been made on the return of the old foreign savings to foreign foreign savings and therefore we will also support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-13-0.u1952	We're done with today's work. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session.
