ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2597	Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, adopted by the assembly on 26 March, obliged the Serbian government to prepare a proposal for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I must say that, compared to previous declarations and resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija adopted by this assembly, and adopted several such declarations and resolutions in 2001 and 2003, this adopted March 26th is the first to seek special safeguards and guarantees for Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Despite a general opinion in our public and the stance of political authorities in Serbia that all available means should be defended to defend Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija against the Albanian secession and ethnic cleansing strategy, Serbia has so far virtually had no concrete plan to protect the endangered population, private and public assets and religious and cultural goods in the region. The latest mass wave of ethnic cleansing, which took place on 17 March and 18 March this year, is the most serious warning that activities in that direction are being taken decisively. That is why the government, and by the obligation it received from the Assembly, first educated one working group that prepared the first version of the plan, then adopted a draft plan, but on the very text of the plan, I would like to point out in particular, the debate was held before today in the Serbian Parliament. In addition to the president of the assembly and the government, the debate was attended by the presidents of all parliamentary parties, as well as experts appointed by the parties represented in the Serbian Parliament. That's how we came to the text of the plan ahead of you. The plan is essentially familiar with Kosovo Serb representatives, MPs of the Return Coalition in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. In essence, only the text of the plan, the basic concept of the plan, was introduced by ambassadors and individual political directors of the foreign ministries of the Contact Group, as well as by the special representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I will not enter into the details of this plan, it is sufficiently large, sufficiently concrete, and the niche is not less concrete and the explanation that goes with this plan, but in the shortest lines, I will expose what is behind this plan, what the Serbian Government considers, of course, with the support of the National Assembly, that this plan can be achieved to improve, and that is a fundamental improvement, an opportunity in Kosovo and Metohija for those whose lives are threatened, whose rights are daily offended, trampled, and these are Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The resolution and plan, of course, were primarily fueled by violence since 17 March, although it was no surprise to us. The situation in Kosovo since June 1999, in the presence of the international community, in its civilian and military form, has characterized a large number of, first, motivated beast crimes, then the non-refundable and non-free movement in Kosovo and Metohija. For those who tend to indicate, or at least for a time in the international community, that the situation is alarming after 17 March alone, it should be said that the consequences of human rights abuse in Kosovo and Metohija are much more difficult before 17 March, as in fact most of the exiles from Kosovo and Metohija were exiled after 10 June 1999. It could often be heard in the international community that things should return, at least because of that, to the state before 17 March, it is said, that a restoration of the previous situation should be carried out. Things, however, should not return to state before 17 March or after 17 March. A third need is needed: stronger, more specific security measures are needed, the broader mandate of KFOR and UNMIK police. But that is not enough, a political solution is needed, as all security measures, with a larger or smaller number of KFOR soldiers, have so far failed to deliver results. A clear, firm political solution is needed. I would like to say immediately that the two documents that UNMIK appeared to have been associated with each other lately, which are standards for Kosovo, adopted in December of last year, and at the end of March, the adopted plan for the application of Kosovo standards, absolutely, no matter how large, is not enough. It's paradoxical, they may be too good, but for some others, not for Kosovo opportunities. They may be too good, but they only have one flaw: they are completely inaccessible in Kosovo and Metohija. Standards and Kosovo's reality, these standards for Kosovo that UNMIK has created and Kosovo's reality, it's like heaven and earth to you. I will list only one place, something that has been put as a motto, as the leading idea in this document "Standards for Kosovo" since 10 December 2003, which reads this way: "For Kosovo where all, regardless of ethnic origin, race or religion, are free to live, work and travel without fear, hostility or danger and where there is tolerance, justice and peace for everyone." Then, the realization of this multiethnic paradise, because this can't be about anything else, but about multiethnic paradise, is about 2005. So all of this needs to be achieved, achieved, achieved, achieved no less than by 2005. UNMIK was also believed to be realistic in 2005. Otherwise, the question arises, why should this year be mentioned? The standards for Kosovo are as if in Kosovo we have several national communities, not only formal, but also truly equal in everything, as if Kosovo is not the problem of violence, persecution and pogrom being committed by the overwhelming Albanian majority over the Serb and non-Albanian minorities. Standards are written as if things only need to be improved a little bit in Kosovo, not changed from the roots. The question arises, explaining this impatience, in 2005, when it comes to resolving the Kosovo issue, in comparison with unlimited patience when it comes to other ethnic tensions and conflicts in the world, for example when it comes to the Cyprus issue. The international community's policy, represented and implemented in Kosovo and Metohija by UNMIK and KFOR, has proved to be extremely inefficient so far in practical application of the mandate based on Security Council Resolution 1244. The five-year implementation of this policy meant two things in practice: firstly, bringing closer to the goal of the cosmetic Albanians – the secession of Kosovo, but secondly, towards their goal, the total ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are slowly and surely becoming a monoethnic area, both in front of the eyes and with the mass presence of representatives of an international civilian and military mission. This process should not be allowed by Serbia for itself or for the whole region, and finally for Europe, whose Serbia is otherwise part, is essentially, if it is not formal, as other members of the European Union. Serbia's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija should now be based on this plan, which guarantees the status, survival and return of Serbs to the province. Right away, and this is very important, this plan is fully agreed with international and internal documents on Kosovo and Metohija, only to add to them one more thing, one necessary missing element, and this is a system of legal and institutional guarantees for the endangered Serb population in the province. Since this issue has so far been unresolved and that such a situation has allowed Albanians to implement an ethnic cleansing strategy, the implementation of this plan solves the biggest problem and the biggest failure of the international administration in the province so far. The Serbian government's plan ahead of you, which I want to point out first, does not prejudge so-called. Kosovo and Metohija's final status. There is, by the way, an objection raised by Albanian secessionists who were carelessly or intentionally accepting some representatives of the international community and the current administration in the province. This, however, is not a question of final status, is not a question that we should be dealing with and we are not dealing with it, either strategically or in this document. For us, Kosovo's status is regulated by the Constitution of Serbia and the positions in Resolution 1244, which determine the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ, that is, today Serbia-Montenegro and the plan of essential autonomy of the province within its framework. Secondly, this plan does not question, and this is also one of the complaints that can be heard in the international public, the idea and value of a multiethnic society, but represents a means and a way to reach such a society. Today, it is not possible for this historic, break-down 2005 as well, and it is obvious that in the near future it is not possible. Third, the plan does not advocate the ethnic division of Kosovo, as it has been very often objected, although it is open to saying that the ethnic division of Kosovo is better than the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo, that is, than ethnically clean Kosovo. The plan advocates decentralisation of authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. I must say immediately that this plan in this regard seeks to decentralisation authorities, for a form of decentralisation of government in Kosovo and Metohija, reminds in something of those models applied in the region, let's say one model that produced results after the war and ethnic conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. So, the model is foreseen by the Dayton, in the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Ohrid Agreement, in the case of Macedonia, whose guarantee is the international community. I would like to add one more thing, in southern Serbia is applied quite successfully, according to the international community's assessment, a multiethnic experiment. If it is not possible at this time, if this kind of co-existence of Serbs and Albanians is not possible in Kosovo, why at least the autonomy that exists in southern Serbia, as a means of protecting Serbs and non-Albanians, would not be enforceable. I would like to say, in particular, that is not pointed out, and in some ways it is understood in many criticisms of this international community plan, which in itself is clear, but I feel the need to point out this: since the plan is a political solution, this plan is not a proposal for a violent but political solution to the Kosovo issue. This plan is not an invitation to burn down houses, churches, cultural monuments, not an invitation to kill and persecute people from their homes, but to protect themselves in their basic rights, and above all right to life, a dissuaded minority of Serbs. The Serbian government's plan strictly adheres to the mandate entrusted by the Assembly to its Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija on 26 March this year, and let me remind you, the development of a proposal for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and the Metohija under Resolution meant, or it should move when it comes to the Serbian government's plan, within three principles. First, that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Secondly, that Serbia must ensure the survival, security and return of the Kosovo Serbs. Third, that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija must have new institutional guarantees of their position and better protection of their rights. Starting with the said Resolution, the Serbian Government's plan takes into account all relevant international conventions on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, human rights and the rights of national communities, and in particular has a number of European experience in protecting the rights of national communities through the establishment of territorial autonomy, therefore, protection of minority rights, relying on territorial autonomy. It means that, in a comparable sense, this document is nothing exceptional in European relations to protect the rights of individual categories of population. Compared to similar solutions to the protection of minority rights of territorial autonomy in Europe, the difference is only that civilised European countries solved this type of problem immediately peacefully and unanimously by rule, preventing ethnic conflicts and ethnic pogroms, which took place in Kosovo and Metohija on 17 March and 18 March; as the permanent ethnic pogrom of Albanians over Serbs takes place since 10 June 1999. If the international community, all in all, has failed to prevent ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija since the start of its mandate and if it has disobeyed Belgrade's permanent requirement and the cosmetian Serbs to establish a better institutional protection of the Serb community, it is now simply showing it the opportunity to show determination to resolve this most difficult issue. By adopting this plan, we must be aware that its implementation is not in our hands, but as is the overall policy in Kosovo and Metohija, it is largely in the hands of the international community. A little over a month ago, the international community had a hell of a burn on the so-called. The Albanian issue, however, should not expect a fully open door when it comes to our policy and the province. I would especially like to highlight these first impressions we have from the talks, from trying to present the basic ideas of this plan to representatives of the international community. As we move away from 17 March, more and more in the international community have been expressing fears of solutions, opportunism, bureaucratic indifference, the tendency of the international factor to pilot handwashing, contrary to Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework, empowerment of transfers from UNMIK to Kosovo institutions, which, by the way, act, many of the main protagonists of ethnic persecution and ethnic cleansing. More and more in this work of the international community, notably UNMIK in Kosovo, the tendency to install a element of Kosovo's statehood in Kosovo's institutions. The formation of an office for international co-operation with the government of Kosovo is one of the forms, in fact, taking over one important part of the statehood of each state community, which is foreign affairs. Finally, as it is, no doubt once again, about the ousted escape from international officials' responsibilities, I think that the personification, the best, of this run away from responsibility, which is a level of irresponsibility, is the current UNMIK chief in Kosovo and Metohija, Harry Holkeri. I'll point out only on one recent case, in Holkeri's statement yesterday, what it looks like. I cite his words, in fact four attitudes, which actually show now, on these changed occasions, as it has been more than a month since 17 March, that there is no general intention of resolving the Kosovo issue, i.e. protecting Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo more seriously, more effectively. Holkeri says, "I haven't seen the Serbian government's plan to cantonise Kosovo, but I've heard of it"; although I talked to Mr Holkerim on basic ideas about this plan in Belgrade. "The population in Kosovo," Holkeri says, "sees this proposal as an opportunity for a part of Kosovo to be isolated from the composition of this area and this is a proposal to which it should be very careful". Of course, I don't know what the population of Kosovo means. In this same way, a faceless, amorphous picture of Kosovo is given in these standards for Kosovo and a plan for applying Kosovo standards. Then, Holkeri continues "the good basis for starting work on this issue is the proposal of the Council of Europe, which is working on a new concept of decentralisation". The Council of Europe began to work on the concept in 2002, and this concept is actually one attempt at some minimum decentralisation of government, taking on wider powers by municipalities and submunications, while also transferring more and more responsibilities from UNMIK to Kosovo institutions, so that if something through this form of local self-government and achieved in Kosovo and Metohija, it is absolutely being pushed by transferring a large part of the competence from UNMIK to Kosovo institutions. Further, Holkeri says "that Belgrade is our partner in dialogue and we urgently need to include it in the discussions on technical and practical issues". This further, indirectly, means that there is no intention at all to approach this fundamental political issue, the guarantee for Serbs in Kosovo, more seriously, but to deal with issues raised in the so-called. Vienna dialogue. So, technically, instead of political issues, human rights issues. Finally, the UNMIK chief concludes, "in Kosovo, the fact is that precisely because of mistrust, I have no answer to the question when the more massive return of Serbs to Kosovo will begin". I would remind there of one fact, that the mandate of UNMIK's chief, and this is the fourth in a row of UNMIK chiefs, not counting on this first provisional mandate, is the fourth term of head of UNMIK in Kosovo and its mandate is to do everything in accordance with Resolution 1244 on the return of displaced, or exiled from Kosovo and Metohija today. The current UNMIK chief argues that because of the non-refuse -- again symmetry, mistrust exists on both sides, there is no ethnic conflict, there is no violence, there is nothing, they are equally guilty, Serbs and Albanians -- he simply has no answer to the question when the more massive return of Serbs to Kosovo will begin. You know, this question can be given a very simple and easy answer. The return will begin when Serbs receive valid institutional guarantees, alongside, of course, appropriate security measures, and these guarantees can only be obtained through adequate autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija. Although that door in communication with the international community has now been unearthed to us, we must make very wise use of the opportunity to ensure a peaceful life and a safe return for Serbs and other non-Albanians in the province. We can't do that any other way than in collaboration with an international factor. That is why it is necessary, by adopting this plan, that the Parliament entrusts the Government with the mandate for the talks on the roads and the way in which it is applied; it means that the Government remains obliged to regularly report to the Assembly on the results, but also on the expected problems that will arise in the application of the plan. It is certain, however, that this government cannot give up on this concept, because it is the only one in its full application, guarantees survival, security and the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, it is clear that the same thing as it cannot essentially give up on this plan, that it is a framework for talks on territorial autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija with representatives of the international community, both in Kosovo and Metohija, but also beyond it. So this plan isn't something hard, nailed and unchangeable, but its essence, its basic idea must remain unchangeable. It is understood that this plan cannot be implemented immediately and gradually. Some of its parts can be realised faster, some slower. With all this in mind, it is easy to conclude in the end how important it is for this plan to be adopted by the National Assembly as a whole. If there is any question that is surreal, state-level in the right sense of words, then it is a question of Kosovo and Metohija, and in its context the issue of the survival and return of Serbs to the province. There is no doubt that all representatives of Serbian citizens gathered in this home are looking at and feeling this problem this way. Today, this relationship with the problem needs to be transformed into a truly unique state attitude and a political programme. With such a mandate and a message to this government, I am convinced that it will be much easier to fight in the existing environment and elections for international acceptance and a gradual achievement of this plan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2598	I thank Mr. Kostunica. I ask the representative of the SRS parliamentary group to take the floor. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for this plan is a hybrid act, only in part a legal act, in the part where it comes to a decision on the establishment of a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, we can only talk about a legal act. Everything else is an essayist, scientific, historical or other approach. The SRS took part in consultations with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all other political parties, and we expressed our objections to the initial text of the act. Some of the comments made by the SRS were accepted. I think that today, perhaps immodestly sounds like an extremely significant part of this text. In the preamble of the sentence decision, "becoming from Kosovo and Metohija being an inalienable part of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and especially that, earlier, it was on page 4 which we had, and today is a sentence in which it is said -- the document does not come into question the status of Kosovo and Metohija, which is set out in UN Security Council Resolution 1244 -- is our contribution, we think very significant. I'll tell you why. Namely, the SRS had a fundamental objection to this act, which is a failure to regulate the relationship between essential autonomy and central government in Belgrade. So we were thinking why the government decided to tell us exclusively about the regulation of territory, namely relations in the territory of essential autonomy, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija. Why has it not been tried in any way to propose regulation of relations between the central authorities in Belgrade and the authorities of territorial autonomy. In part, these changes have been made. We also understand that certain international factors do not want to talk about it, but today I have to tell you what thing I think everyone would have to insist on, after adopting this document, all political factors in Serbia. We have, unfortunately, had bad examples in the past, especially in the former regime; therefore, everyone must insist on one thing, which is that the final status of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved. That's the essential thing. The final status of Kosovo and Metohija has been resolved, and I am sorry that some find it funny, it was resolved by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Cassus Belli disappeared for the war the moment, no matter what he thought of the capitulation we accepted, when the UN act, if the UN Security Council decided that Kosovo and Metohija would remain part, then the SRJ, and the days of its legal superintendent, Serbia-Montenegro. So, first of all, I would like to ask everyone to note that on an international basis at all times, the representative of any international organisation, any country, has said that we want to talk about all the modalities and all forms of relations between the central authorities of the Republic of Serbia and territorial autonomy. The final status was solved by you, when you offered an end to armed acts, the end of aggression, by bringing Resolution 1244. By doing so, your act resolved the issue of Kosovo's final status and the Metohija. This is what everyone has to insist on, not do their dirty party affairs, especially members of the former regime, who have only done so, and they have never thought of taking care of Serbia's interests or talking about Kosovo and Metohija. We have a few problems regarding the application of the plan itself, then I'm going to move on to the text and the solution that contains the plan. Our first problem is to accept these solutions from the old Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. Another problem we have is accepting what I've been talking about from certain international factors. The Albanians will have few arguments to reject this proposal, except they will try – and we see it from Walter Schwimmer's statement, which we could read today and in our press or already last night in certain Elktron media to see – that they say, yes, we want to give you the right to decentralisation, that you edit local self-government, but at the level of so-called. local communities, i.e. municipalities or municipalities, you can't get more than that. Now I remind you that when we said that decentralisation does not mean giving the right to form territorial autonomy to others, that we were attacked as someone who is God's against decentralisation. The question is whether and how and how they will allow the creation of a regional assembly, a regional executive council, of the regional judiciary discussed here in this act. As for our autonomy, or self-government carried out within essential autonomy, it is consistently implemented through the regional assembly and regional executives. It is not consistently and ultimately applied to the regional judiciary, because the second-degree body, the regional court, does not make a final decision. We have above him the Supreme Court of Kosovo and Metohija, or Kosovo, as they call it. We have proposed here, and this could not have been taken directly, but was indirectly implemented in the act, on issues concerning the establishment of a constitutional appeal, which was previously in charge of the Federal Constitutional Court, so that it is clearly stated that it will be decided by the court of Serbia-Montenegro, which I hope we will form. This was not done in the act, with the reasons of the majority, so that it would be particularly disturbing for representatives of the Kosovo-Meto-Metochian Albanians, but probably someone else who would talk about the essence of this act, with the story that it must not be spoken unless we mention the link between the regional assembly and the regional executive council with the central authorities in Serbia, that we are not even talking about the regional judiciary. Therefore, our remarks and the reserve against this act remain above all regarding the Serbian self-government in Kosovo and Metohija towards the central authorities in Belgrade and because of the fact that it is not detailed and thorough, but we have accepted the argument that the time will come for this to be discussed, the regulated relationship between essential autonomy, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija towards the central government in Belgrade, according to central authorities. Those who want independence from Kosovo and Metohija, and who believe that this is the issue of final status, must be clearly reassured by this act, to be sent a message to them in some way, which is what is good in this plan, that and we think that the final status is resolved and that they cannot find a partner in Serbia who will agree or accept the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. That is the fundamental reason why the SRS accepted the vote for the proposal at otherwise difficult consultations. The second reason why we accepted this is the fact that we want to, regardless of what we consider to be a question of territorial integrity and the state sovereignty of Serbia to be a question of one, but we also want to answer question number two and number three of the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. These are security and human rights issues. We just want to warn the government of the Republic of Serbia and once again the domestic and international public not to twist the facts and not to say that the issue of human rights is the only important issue in Kosovo and Metohija. It's important, but it's not the only one, it's not the first. This act, strange, hybrid nature, regulates the main issue of our relationship and attempts to improve security in Kosovo and Metohija, and I would say in a better way to regulate the state of human rights in the southern Serbian province. Why did I say this? Because since 17 March, when there has been a pogrom or a lot of crimes against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, we have since had a story we have been listening to for several years, but from that point on, it has intensified in connection with the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. It is that Albanians have to get down on their knees, Albanians have to apologize to Serbs, have to fix several houses; by the way, they haven't done it either; they have to do a few more things, but we are still slowly, but surely, we are slipping towards independence. That's obviously what their plan is. The first thing we have to do is stop it and stop the story of how the scariest thing they've ever seen is look at someone in the face; the scariest thing is they're trying to take away our country, they're trying to take away our country. It's the scariest thing possible, and we have to draw it clearly, clearly and clearly, to say it to everyone in the world. We shouldn't be afraid of that. It was one single sentence today that Tomislav Nikolic said within the three-minute period allowed in accordance with the rules in the Council of Europe's assembly. That's what we have to insist on, and that's what we have to talk about. Along with many other members of the Serbian Radical Party and people who deal with this problem, and it seems to me, of course, that we are all extremely interested in this, because of some kind of special, in this sense and the party obligations, because of the trust we enjoy in the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija, we have considered this. When we spoke with Mr. Kostunica in the government of the Republic of Serbia, we presented something that could mean a lot of fears. I didn't care at all, and I was pretty scared when I saw that some others, even though they didn't read the plan very carefully, which we easily established, had accepted the obituaries. When Boris Tadic said he accepted everything right away, I got pretty scared and started thinking about what it was that everything in this plan was wrong. As you can see, there's a lot I've been able to get to. We must require our diplomacy not to behave on a voluntary basis, not to act amateurally, but to behave professionally and in accordance with the acts adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the acts adopted by our state bodies. Not good statements go hand in hand to those who would like to help separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. In any case, it has to be avoided in the future. I would like all those representing this country to read those acts brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's their duty. If they read those acts, they would never make any statements directly contrary to those acts. That's our problem. Don't run a political party policy when you talk about a state-of-the-art problem like Kosovo and Metohija, but run a policy according to what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or other state bodies and institutions bring and vote. In this text, you will see that the state of Serbia is only mentioned in one place, because it is obvious that no one can blame us. It's about our responsibilities regarding cultural monuments, which, of course, is no guarantee of statehood, but we haven't had that yet. What is of paramount importance, apart from what was meant to be within essential autonomy, we have managed to enter into the text that natural and mining treasures fall within the jurisdiction of the region, which we think is of the utmost importance for the text of the act. The only thing left for us as a big problem is how and in what way, even though we don't have a map. And when we talked, we talked about how we didn't have maps. We've seen some maps appear in public. Our problem is that they are not coherent in general, which are not compact, which are not connected. Of course, it's our problem as a people and it's nobody's fault in power or opposition. Those five areas should form one region. So, this region is the essence of our self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, but I think it will be a very difficult struggle to achieve this kind of thing and to come out intact in the fight to preserve the territorial integrity and state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, our international position is extremely difficult and nothing is as pink as it is presented in public. It's much more difficult than some want the public to present, and I'd like it to be more uncompared and, I'd say, without making a language mistake, to come forward more unitedly with international factors, as far as the Kosovo-Methohic problem is concerned. They have one big problem, and the problem is that it is also obvious that today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I cannot find anyone who will help them separate Kosovo and Metohija, at least formally. What someone else is going to try, perhaps essentially, to do, we're going to see it, but I am expressing confidence that everyone will stick to this definition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the time when we can, by referring to Karadjord and Negosa, do something. This is a time in which we must use smart policy, which we will be leading both internally and externally, to achieve incomparably more significant results. We believe that this plan is not ideal, that there are many shortcomings, but for the reasons we spoke of Serbian Radical Party MPs will vote for this plan. Because, not only as the main opposition party, but also as the largest political party in Serbia, we want to show that our national and national interests are ahead of us in Skopartis. I think that the representatives of the majority government could see for themselves in our talks in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in what our proposals for amending the act itself were. I remind you once again, and I insist that each of us today, when we accept and adopt this act, insists that the final status of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved and that it is precisely resolved at the request and insistence of the international community, namely the Security Council of the United Nations Resolution 1244. We are ready to talk about everything else, about everything else we want to talk about, about all possible modes, about all possible relationships of essential autonomy towards the central government, but nobody in Serbia is ready to talk about changing the final status that has been established by an international legal document, and that is the key message that we must send from this session today, first of all to the world, and then to our public. I think there's one more thing we need to do. From the story - we will return Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija, we need to move to action, see what are the concrete measures that the government in Serbia can and must take, with the help of all political factors, to see how and how money is provided and everything else needed to help our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Because it is obvious that there must be an additional motive besides our story of heroic history, but to do something that is not only tactical but also the strategic interest of the Serbian state. That is why, since the agreement has been reached for all of us to vote in favour of this act, I call for different behaviour in the future, especially in front of international factors, that, instead of contacting international factors, some use to attack their political opponents, lie and fiction, to use it for the truth about Kosovo and Metohija. It would be much better for this country, much better for this people. They may be a little bit worse off, but it would be good if they did it for their country, for their people. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, regardless of all differences, regardless of all the objections we have to the work of the Government and this document, you will never have an enemy, especially on state matters, but a correct political opponent, who, when the state or state territory is in danger, will always try to help, and will not be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2600	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Kosovo and Metohija is a Serbian fate, cradle, joy, improvement, prosperity and statehood of the Serbian people, but it is also a place where they were killed, suffered, a place where everything that is Serbian and defined by the Serbian people was destroyed; these are Serbs, their property, their religious and cultural sites, their life in these areas for more than ten centuries, their statehood. The process of destroying and banishing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija lasts for tens of years, and was most pronounced when the Cypriots had absolute authority: 50 years under the auspices of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and the last five years under the auspices of the alleged Peace Mission of the United Nations Security Council. Why is there an exodus, genocide, ethnic cleansing of the Serb people from the space of Kosovo and Metohija? For one reason: the Serb does not want to be a servant, does not want or accepts the policy of service, humiliation, adolescence, a policy that characterized the 50-year period of communist rule, which favored and gave everything to the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija, a policy of the Dossmanal regime, which was a policy of service, humiliation, adjudication to world powers and a policy of closed eyes over the fate of the Serbs and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. With this policy and attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija, it must cease immediately. Kosovo and Metohija must become a priority for everyone in the country. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, our diplomacy must have a sentence - Kosovo and Metohija, the whole European and world diplomacy must be familiar with the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, must insist on resolving the problem of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. An example of this, gentlemen, is the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic in Strasbourg, when he used his exposure to point to the goal of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Since June, Resolution 1244 has had a protectorate over Kosovo and Metohija. The United Nations mandate, the alleged peacekeeping mission, was tasked with creating conditions for all in Kosovo and Metohija. What has been happening for the last five years, as a member of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, I do not want any people on the globe to happen. It was a terrible torture, a great suffering, a great suffering of the Serbian people, and all apparently in the presence of a very large number of international forces. The last ethnic cleansing that happened from March 17th to March 19th finally opened the eyes and world powers, and we have to take advantage of that opportunity. When I say "we", I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and our diplomacy, in order to at least improve the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. To be clear, nothing can be solved overnight. This will be a very complex and complex issue that will be addressed not only by this government, but also by future governments, but what needs to be established today is the obligation of all who rule the Serbian state to deal with the Kosovo and Metohija issue in a way that protects Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. When the Kosovo and Metohija Resolution was adopted, I made three statements, and first, it must work to protect the remaining Serbs, which are currently around 130,000 in Kosovo and Metohija. Thus, their protection through international forces, as well as the forces of the army and police of the Republic of Serbia, should be overly ensured. When I say that, I mean the model, that if they can be members of other organizations, world organisations, in Kosovo and Metohija, and if they give us a chance to go to Iraq and Afghanistan, we can send our military forces to Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, if there is a KPS, which was one of the factors of ethnic cleansing in the last events, police authorities in Kosovo and Metohija can be formed, and I don't think that any Serb from Serbia is going to Kosovo and Metohija, there are enough 130,000 Serbs and those 220,000 Serbs to reorganise and they will make their own police, and only a Serb soldier and a Serb policeman can protect a Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. No soldier, neither KFOR nor UNMIK, but not these Shiparian institutions, nor can, nor wants to protect the Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. After such conditions, above all the protection of Serbs and the creation of conditions that can move freely, and they will be free to move again, noting, with the presence of our forces, the next problem should be considered, which is the return of displaced and the creation of conditions for the return of all those displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, who want to return, who lived there and want to return. Normally, this should also be insisted that more than 300,000 Cypriots living in Kosovo and Metohija who are not from Kosovo and Metohija should also be asked this issue in front of the international community, in order to address the problem in parallel. The SRS, as the deputy head of the parliamentary club, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, will vote in favour of this plan and will vote in favour of any future plans that will also make it possible for Iot to improve the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2602	Thank you. I'm asking the representative of the DSS Group to take the floor. The word is made by MP Branislav Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2603	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable fellow Members of the People, there are very few questions that come before this National Assembly that are able to unite us like this. We've heard about this speaker that this act is not ideal. That's right. But what man is perfect, what thing is ideal? If we measure it with absolute values, we'll probably find a lot of trouble. Let's try to measure it with relative values. What act passed this assembly without all of us voting for it, all 250 as one? There's no act like that. So far, the only resolution on Kosovo and now this plan. It is likely that there will be no other questions that will unite us, harmonize us, agree on, about which we will reach a consensus, such as our painful wound, our tragedy – Kosovo. In this regard this is an ideal act, there is no better. This is the only one who can bring us all together as one. In that sense, it's not even good to ask him for a grudge right now, to be petty and to get into the details. Yeah, this isn't a legal act. He's essentially more of a political act, but it's no wonder. Resolution 1244, the Kumanov Agreement and later practical policy, our sovereignty, perhaps not essentially, but in fact, is suspended down in Kosovo. We can't have a strict formal relationship or create an act. That's why this act can't be a legal act. He can't be passed in law form. We're not in a position to carry him out. It must also be brought in in this, conditionally speaking, hybrid form, meaning to a certain extent legal but more political act. From that point of view, no objections should be sought. He's different so he can't be. It should also be said that there are no easy solutions about Kosovo. And this plan will be a difficult solution in its implementation and will be difficult to implement. But should we be afraid of the weight of the road ahead of us? You don't have to. What we need to be encouraged is the path that we have come to do so far for our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija and to preserve our country's sovereignty. That should give us strength. We should not fear any difficult solution, nor any difficult procedure that stands before us. We should face it bravely, look it in the eye and fight for it. By this act, we are finally taking the initiative. So far, there has been no initiative from this country, mostly events have arrived or reached this country and its policy regarding Kosovo and Metohija. By this act, we take the initiative. We're putting others in a position to react to our actions, not, like, so far, that we're reacting to others. We banish others, we lead others into a situation where they have to revise and correct their attitudes and think about them. We are introducing ourselves as a more active and active partner in solving this problem than it has ever been. In this regard, I call on the honourable fellow Members of the People to support this act absolutely, to give this act to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to help our fellow nations down in its implementation, to help preserve our sovereignty, and at the same time to ask our fellow Members, honourable MPs, to oblige the Government to do so. With this act, we will not only give the government a mandate, we will oblige her to do this job. Why? Because so far it hasn't been done enough on that plan. We are asking the Government to do everything, and not just the Government, but all the other state authorities, as it stands in this act. I hope so, and I'm sure that he will, in the end, give a certain result. What we need to achieve is, these are certain essential, practical, real rights on the ground, concrete to our countrymen, to give them the opportunity, a certain kind of legal weapon in their hands, to protect themselves, to circle around. We're not asking for anything more than what, practically, temporary institutions have in relation to our country. Practically, that's what we're looking for for for our countrymen down from the provisional institutions. We've heard it before, it's nothing extraordinary, it's nothing special, it's nothing special, it exists in Europe. He knows this legal practice and other European countries, it's nothing special. We're not looking for anything extraordinary for us, we're looking for what others have. To finish, I call on you once again -- vote for this act, show once again that this is the most ideal act that this assembly can bring, that all 250 of us vote as one, that we support this plan and give weapons to this country, and to our government and our countrymen, that they can fight the tragedy that has hit us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2604	The word is from the peoples of Parliament Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2605	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the government, I would first ask one question. If one act is declared a state secret, and the state secret is on the means of public information presented in a transparent manner, will anyone answer for it? I think he has to. When I began in some more serious area to deal with the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, that is, when I began to travel more intensively to Kosovo and Metohija, I met many foreigners. One of them called me in mid-2001 to help Serbs agree to a multiethnic project. Otherwise, he was from one of the former non-classified states, which can be characterized in any way, but cannot be characterised as democratic. Now a man has come to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija and has devised to open a multiethnic fountain between the Serbian and Albanian villages. Serbian peasants made a problem, didn't want to sell the plot to UNMIK, and then they needed to be persuaded. But what was essentially the problem? The problem was that it was the end of his one-year term. In his report to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, which is his representative in Kosovo and Metohija, he had to write that a multiethnic project had been implemented, i.e. to assist his initiative in bringing Serbs and Albanians closer together. A tap between two villages was to be made, multiethnic waters should expire, and this would be evidence of a multiethnic paradise in Kosovo and Metohija. He didn't know what to put in the report, he didn't go back to his homeland, he preferred another term in East Timor, Nagorna Karabah or elsewhere, so he prayed for help. For example, when the Serbian Parliament discussed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija in 2003, and here and how much it heard about the escalation of organised crime and terrorism at the back of Kosovo and Metohija, UNMIK spokesman Mr Derek Chepel reacted. His press release compares the number of murders, the number of rapes, the number of armed robberies in Kosovo, Metohija and Stockholm County, since they are about the same size as the population. When you read that press release, then you realize that security is much more endangered in Stockholm County than in Kosovo and Metohija. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because neither Albanian politicians, unfortunately for me nor for the representatives of the international community, unfortunately for me, there was the will to solve the problems in Kosovo and Metohija. The initiative on multiethnic taps, multiethnic waters or a comparison of the level of security in Stockholm and Pristina is nothing more than the makeup of the dead. Kosovo, unfortunately, is today a dead man, a dead man of human rights, human freedoms and a dead man of the achievement of basic democratic principles and in political terms, both in terms of collective rights and in terms of the rights of each individual. We need special safeguards for the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija. These special protective measures, again, on my great regrets, do not represent the standards that have been declared. The standards for us are acceptable, but not enough, are not even a tenth of what is needed to protect Serbs. I consider this initiative as a wish for these special safeguards to be established and to be implemented by them. Normally, there is no guarantee that this solution will be accepted by international factors in general and immediately. It doesn't exist, because international factors, they just don't know what they want, and they know what they don't want. They will not essentially discuss this problem, because if you are discussing the essence, you need to raise a question of responsibility, and if a question of responsibility is raised, then there will be some names that are senior officials in UNMIK structures and international institutions that are working in Kosovo today. We're going to need a lot of patience, because the implementation of this plan is not in our hands. I think that Serbia should show all its democratic capacities so that this problem, with the agreement on the decision we are going to make today, will resolve gradually and permanently. I do not want to talk about whether this solution will be acceptable for Albanian politicians. Unfortunately for me, on every issue, this solution, some other solution, a trivial issue, by Albanian counterparts sitting in the Kosovo Assembly, we get the answer that the only way for everything in Kosovo to be resolved for Kosovo to become independent. Let me ask an inverse question about what Mr. Vukic was talking about, and that is, whether, even if there is a majority in Serbia that Kosovo can be given independence, it can become independent, or at least it can be short-term; it can't. Because the decision also depends on the views of the Security Council members, and I know for sure, at least three of the permanent members of the Security Council do not agree that independence should be given to that entity that will gain independence through ethnic cleansing and disrespect for the resolution adopted by the same Security Council. In the end, I want to say that for this initiative, which I'm going to vote for and which DSS is going to support, I take as an expression of fear. An expression of fear that the Serbs in Kosovo and Methya, unless an energetic political action from Belgrade is launched, will no longer be. Two houses in Kosovo Vitina were sold yesterday, houses in Lipian were sold last week. There are many people who announce that as soon as the school year is over, if not they will, they will certainly transfer their children to Serbia, because there are no basic security bases for each man individually, and especially for those people who are not Albanians in Kosovo. So, and if we are to implement this plan and this government initiative gradually and in some long-term time, I think that with a clearly defined and strong offensive of diplomatic character, we must leave tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2606	Thank you. I would like a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic to take the floor; the word has been given by MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2607	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, respected Ministers, respected fellow MPs, it is certain that Kosovo and Metohija must be a place or perhaps the only place around which a general consensus is needed in this assembly. Not only the consensus in the Assembly, but also the national consensus of all political forces. I am not sure that this is the first plan that envisions concrete measures to address Kosovo and Metohija's problems, in addition to resolutions and declarations made by this assembly, in addition to the 2001 federal government's plan to address the problem in phases, contributes to this kind of consensus. Unfortunately, the mechanisms for solving this problem are not in our hands. Unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia has formal but has no factual sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. The issue of formal sovereignty is also raised, as Resolution 1244 provides for Kosovo and Metohija to be an integral part of Serbia, but also a community of Serbia-Montenegro states, which is a rather unusual formulation. So we must certainly, to the extent that we can, to the extent that we can influence the mood of the international community and the decisions of the Security Council, take diplomatic offensive, try together and insist that a new and annex of the existing resolution be reached, and that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and the protection of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija be resolved in the best possible way. The Democratic Party and its representatives participated in talks with government representatives to define the plan's proposal. We have had objections to solving the problem of displaced persons, as provided for in the initial document, and to the protection of cultural heritage. However, most of our remarks were positively adopted and it is particularly important to stress that the Republic of Serbia has an obligation not only to its population, not only to protect Serbian national identity in the protection of cultural and cultural heritage sites in Kosovo and Metohija, but also to UNESCO itself. High Decani are a candidate for the World Heritage List, Studenica is already on the list, but the High Decians in Kosovo are also a candidate and the Republic of Serbia is obliged to UNESCO to protect such a cultural heritage of global importance as the High Decians. There are insufficient concrete measures for the return of displaced persons. This document is large enough to predict what steps the government will take to get the displaced faces back, and we see from the document that there are over 200,000. So what, in particular, within the framework of budgetary opportunities, within the framework of technical opportunities, the Republic of Serbia can do and enable Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, who are currently on the territory of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, to return to their hearths or to return to the frameworks of this Serb autonomous community, if there is the possibility that such a community can be established. The Democratic Party's decisions oblige us to vote in favour of such a document. After the March 17th event, we said very clearly and decadently that establishing political autonomy, therefore territorial autonomy, that is, the administrative continent in which Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija would find themselves, is a prerequisite for protecting the physical integrity of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and is a legal and institutional framework for protecting our population in Kosovo and Metohija. We will because such an autonomous community is foreseen to support this act. It is particularly important that through this act, both repressive mechanisms are foreseen, and we have seen that repressive mechanisms, security, justice, internal affairs are concentrated at the level of the autonomous community. It's a key moment. So there's no talking about standards, political rights, international conventions, if the direct existence of people down there is compromised. It is therefore unusually important for security and justice to be concentrated precisely in the hands of those who will be able to protect the physical integrity of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, that part of the autonomous community. It is unusual for property relations to be regulated at that level, and we have seen that privatisation in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in previous years has been done in such a way that the fully ignored fact that in Kosovo and Metohija particularly Serbian citizens have invested in their funds over the past decades, invested the funds of the Republic of Serbia and other republics, but the dominant Republic of Serbia, because Kosovo enjoyed the status of an area that has not been sufficiently developed, that is, underdeveloped area. The fact is a completely ignored and brutal privatisation carried out in Kosovo and Metohija's territory has completely ignored that fact, as has been ignored by the property rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who were dominant property owners in the second decade of the 20th century in Kosovo and Metohija. Multiethnicity, i.e. the possibility that both the mountainous, Roma, Bosniak community enjoy some kind of territorial autonomy is also the obligation of the Republic of Serbia; therefore, the Republic of Serbia should protect other communities located in Kosovo and Metohija and which are non-Albanian national origin, because they are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of this guarantee will insist on achieving such autonomy. In fact, this represents a very clear definition of this parliament that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that all citizens of Kosovo and Metohija at the same time and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that it was necessary to mention in this document and our commitment to enter the Partnership for Peace, or such a document, that it is necessary to enter that international association. It's unusually important and would greatly improve our military and security position in the world to enter into such an association. We have seen that unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to intervene when our people are the most endangered in Kosovo and Metohija and we still have to rely on international military forces. Such a commitment would certainly contribute to a better status and position of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the protection of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The three principled views respected this plan, hence the fact that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of Serbia and the union of Serbia-Montenegro states, that the commitment to the survival, security and return of Serbs of imperative character and that institutional guarantees for the position and protection of Serbs must be provided, leading us to a unanimous conclusion at the parliamentary club that we should support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2608	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2609	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out a few important matters in my opinion. The key political fact is that there is political agreement in Serbia today on what the state of Serbia is proposing as a policy to improve the Kosovo issue. This political consensus, I think, is an essential political assumption that our national and political energy is working to achieve our national and national objectives. At this point, it is stabilising the opportunities in which our citizens of Kosovo and Metohija are located and creating preconditions for the rapid return of displaced persons who left Kosovo after the events that took place in 1999. I would remind this parliament that Democratic Party President Boris Tadic was defence minister at a time when the latest deterioration of opportunities occurred in Kosovo and Metohija and the escalation organised by Albanian terrorists. A well-organised and implemented military-diplomatic offensive has managed to remove most of the possible adverse consequences that could have arisen from these events by Serbs now living in Kosovo and Metohija and stabilise the opportunities in which the state of Serbia, when this issue is on the agenda, is located. Even today in Washington and New York, though the opposition champion, Boris Tadic exhibits what is the basis of our state and national views, trying to convince the important actors of international politics to justify these views and will do so in the coming days when he is in Brussels. Another important fact is that this plan establishes a realistic attitude towards the instruments at our country's disposal to successfully lead policy towards the Kosovo-Methochial issue as far as possible. In my opinion, the bottom line is that the plan contains a procedure for achieving the objectives that it envisions, such as the adoption of a new Security Council resolution of the United Nations. I think that this document, when adopted in this Parliament today, will also be a formal but real end for anyone in Serbia, for any serious political formation, the conduct of a demagogue policy, which seems to win some votes in Serbia's elections, has been ready to spread the illusion that anything in Kosovo and Metohija can be done by force policy. (SRS emissaries leaving the O.R., 14.09 p.m. ) On the other hand, the intention of the Serbian state to achieve its national and state objectives through the United Nations Security Council resolution marks the necessity to accept all those elements that entail the achievement and taking over of the obligations arising from the United Nations Charter. To thus give our legitimate, state and national objectives the strength of the arguments and increase the prospects for the success of our national and national policy. The third important thing is the document that should lead to the implementation of the policy proposed in this plan, above all, the protection of life, the protection of freedom of movement, as well as the protection of rights, which implies the implementation and creation of conditions for the achievement of a sustainable economic system for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but also the achievement of all other elements that make up a normal, civilized life of one community in the 21st century, which means the achievement of ingenuity in the areas of health or health, culture, education and everything else. At the very end, I think that the focus of the overall, as I said at the outset, political and national energy, on increasing it seems to open up its national and national objectives, which I think their essence is given in the proposal for this plan, will open up the possibility for the state of Serbia to open up to its citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in a short time the possibility of a normal life, while opening up opportunities for displaced persons from Kosovo to return to their homes as soon as possible and to establish and achieve the kind of civilised and advanced world in Europe in the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2610	I'd like a representative of the G17 Group plus to take your word for it. There's a word from MP Goran Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2611	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a good plan is a viable plan. Today we have an opportunity to see a government plan that is quite ambitious, but also feasible, if we really want to make it happen. The problem of Kosovo and Metohija has plagued us for decades. We've been trying to solve it in various ways. Politics, and the way it's run, moves from bad to catastrophic. In the 1990s, we had the culmination of this catastrophic policy and in 1999 we lost instruments to implement politics in Kosovo and Metohija. We are today trying to protect the interests of the state of Serbia and our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. I think after five years, since that time in 1999, we have finally accepted reality. We are finally facing our citizens, in front of the international community, with a concrete plan that we will try to implement and we will succeed only if all state institutions, all political parties in this country realize that this is the only possible way to protect the interests of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija by implementing this plan. (SRS emissaries returning to the O.R. ) It is not time to compete with political parties about what anyone will say better about Kosovo and Metohija, it is finally time to tell each other what we can do for Kosovo and Metohija. We have very few instruments at this point in our hands. Our main instrument is exactly the international community. The only thing we can and must do is try to better profile our interests in front of the international community, to convince the international community that the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are the interests of the international community. We finally have the end of the unison view of reality in Kosovo and Metohija. That's a chance we have to take advantage of. So, if we face reality, if we have the strength to really do something for Kosovo, and not to just talk about it nicely, we are not interested in winning what few voters are left in Kosovo and Metohija, but to really help these people, and that is the only real goal of this country. The country's diplomacy, all state institutions, all politicians in this country must go with this plan to representatives of the international community, assure them a patient step by step that this is the plan that offers the best solution for all. It's the only formula that guarantees success. More importantly, Serbia must have stable political relations, Serbia must be an economically stable and advanced country. Serbia must become part of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Only such Serbia has power, has credibility in front of the international community and in front of its own citizens to protect all its interests, including interests in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2612	The word has the People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, we have today in the Serbian Parliament, after a long time and after more in vain attempts to do something about Kosovo and Metohija, a concrete plan, with all the fences and all the possible objections. Because, of course, no plan can be perfect and we ourselves will not be able to implement it, or we will need the assistance of the international community. What makes me feel like an MP in this assembly and as a citizen is that for the first time Serbia is going out with a certain, very concrete and realistic initiative. I had the impression that for a very long time we weren't ready to accept reality, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and by reading this plan, what gave me a kind of optimism is exactly the fact that we are finally standing in front of ourselves and in front of the international community, with a plan that is realistic. Of course, we can't expect him to be immediately accepted, and that's something we need to face, or what we need to be prepared for, but on the other hand, we have to keep insisting that we have a legitimate right to come up with a plan that applies to a part of our territory. On the one hand, this will greatly affect in a positive way, of course, our position in the international community, however the international community reacts to this plan at the first moment, and on the other hand it is the only way to protect our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija and ensure their survival. There are two basic instruments that we can provide, and they are just contained in this plan. One is political and territorial autonomy, where territorial autonomy is essential for the survival of both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the other non-Albanian population and for the survival of Serbia itself in Kosovo and Metohija. So, first of all, we do not essentially give up Kosovo as a piece of our territory. I will not, of course, say that we have done this until now, but it simply seemed that we were not ready to do something concrete in this sense, to integrate Serbs in Kosovo into institutions, primarily the institutions of autonomy, but also through collaboration with the international community and other institutions, but also according to those principles that ensure respect for human rights and all internationally recognised standards. What seems most important to me, and it is just about this part of the plan that we are really showing that we care about protecting our fellow citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Recently, I was able to attend an international conference in Tirana, in which we faced something that didn't surprise us too much, which is that all of those delegations from the region where the Albanian representatives were, whether it was a Macedonian delegation with representatives of Albanians, whether it was an Albanian delegation, essentially, and they publicly say, support Kosovo's independence. Then it is simply unusual, at the very least, to object to us for supporting our own, which is why we wondered why it is so unnatural that Serbia supports Serbs from Kosovo. We asked one logical question: why it is unnatural for Serbia to support Serbs from Kosovo and that it wants to fully legitimately ensure survival, i.e. to protect them in full and keep them in Kosovo and Metohija. So this plan is just the answer to that question, and that is why I think it is really necessary to adopt it. Another important aspect of the plan is the status solution, i.e. the solution to the position of Serbs in so-called "Serbs". the enclaves, i.e. in those parts where there are no conditions for the functioning of territorial autonomy. It has been resolved through formulating, i.e. the formation of personal and cultural autonomy, so that they can live and function uninterruptedly and normally in these areas. The fact is that it is not the courage to go to Kosovo and Metohija, it is not the courage to go to enclave, it is the courage to live there, and that we can only admire that courage and respect it, which we do, in order to provide its duration, that is, to ensure that this life can be provided, this autonomy is absolutely necessary. So, the essence of the plan is that the existence of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija must not be questioned and it must be shown that it is a historical fact, that in this sense Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbian territory and that it must never cease to be, wherever we live, wherever we are. Also, it is necessary, of course, that the consensus of all political parties on this issue, because I repeat once again, this is not and must not be a party issue, as many other issues must not be, and we must not allow the citizens of Serbia to feel at any point that the parties' interests simply exceeded those of the state, which are essentially essential.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2614	I ask the representative of the SPO-NS parliamentary group to take the floor. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2615	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers and honourable fellow Members, I will speak very briefly. I will also speak as a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija both in the past and in this meeting. First of all, I want to say that I fully support Mr. Dusan Prophetovic's exposure and I think he was too mild in what he wanted to say. In the last session, I was in a delegation of six MPs who visited Kosovo and Metohija in three days. What I saw there made me feel extra bad. I do not want to talk about a plan for political resolution in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is clear to all of us from the debate during yesterday and today that all present MPs and all members of all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament will vote in favour of this plan. I want to say what I think also concerns a common man, an ordinary Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. I see on page 15 of this plan that the prerequisite is to adopt a new Security Council resolution to prepare this plan or at least some parts of this plan. What is it for us to do to the government, what is it to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to do so far? What can we do today? Today we can help the "Holy Archangels" monastery. The Minister of Faith and many MPs are familiar with this. One signature is enough, one hand move, and I'm saying there's so much money. We can propose to the government, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economic part, that within seven days they submit to us a bill that will further tax each pack of cigarettes smoked daily in Serbia with one dinar, only one dinar, and each Serb in Kosovo will receive 100 euros a month. Is it a reward for the fear of those people who still live down in Kosovo and Metohija, or is it our regret and grief for Kosovo and Metohija, or is it just our desire to try anything to help them, to thank them for still keeping us proud, dignity and face that we have lost over the past five years. I ask the government to pay attention to the work of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Some reports of some state institutions were delivered there and were not adopted on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I think it is not naive at all and it will be too mild to say that I expected the Government of the Republic of Serbia to react to the fact that the competent assembly committee did not adopt a report on the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre, which is the state body, the state institution that has been most important in these five years, or at least it should have been most important to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So I am truly braved by the unique position of all the political parties represented in this House's assembly, but I know that for a variety of reasons, everyone in similar documents will always vote like this. And what will our people do down in Kosovo? I'm telling you, there are a lot of little things that can be done today. I've visited the environments where people, except for security opportunities that are difficult to fix, may not live so badly, but there are environments in Kosovo and Metohija where people are literally starving. We can do it without this political solution plan. These are big topics and big policies that ministers, government presidents, political party heads can understand, but our ordinary man in Kosovo and Metohija can understand the help he will receive today or tomorrow. I'm saying there's money for it. Once again, I support the plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and I would ask the prime minister to make a statement on the proposal that I have made to us within seven days to make a proposal taxing every smoked pack of cigarettes since 30 April and to be one fund from which every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija, who lives downstairs, which still survives in Kosovo and Metohija, will receive one reward for fear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2616	The word has been made by MP Veroljub Stevanović, and I think it is clear to everyone that we are having this session without the possibility of stating what is not the topic of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2617	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members, I dare say that there is a better time in front of us, not only because the atmosphere in the Assembly is different from the one in the previous one, it is, and not only on such important issues but also on other issues, but because real quality documents are coming to this assembly. One of these is this one. We had earlier conclusions, plans and reports. Let's say, last March 17th, one that envisions a six-point improvement in Kosovo, but does not bring that improvement because it is not comprehensive and is not adopted in this way. We recently adopted the resolution on Kosovo, thus obliged the Government of the Republic of Serbia and received the document. We today need to make or adopt a decision on the establishment of a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The decision sets out a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. This decision obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia to set out the plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija in the direction of the politics of the Republic of Serbia and the exercise of other constitutions and the law of established competences in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. The decision also obliges other state authorities to act on this plan, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The decision or this plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija is a framework for possible talks on territorial autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija with representatives of the international community in Kosovo and Metohija outside. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this document or this plan literally obliges all of us. The bottom line is that the plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which is set out in this document, stems from the existing situation that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia under the civilian and military administration of the United Nations. The document does not question the status of Kosovo and Metohija, which is set out in Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. This plan determines territorial autonomy, therefore a whole new solution, as the country's so far territorial organisation has shown the failure of a political and administrative organisation of a multiethnic but deep-divided society. The plan, and I would like to read this in particular, also says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considers itself only realistic, reasonable, but also just and effective development of the preconditions for multiethnicity in Kosovo and Metohija. The condition for this is to remove all possibilities for repetitive persecution and violence against Serbs, as well as for the equally important provision of internally displaced persons to return to the province. It is unacceptable to delay the return of the exiled due to lack of security and freedom of movement. The safety of people, the protection of their lives and property is conditioned by life and survival in their ethnic community today in Kosovo and Metohija. This requires the primary territorial organisation of the province, which allows for the territorial autonomy of the Serbian and other communities that express their wish. The areas of future autonomy would consist of municipalities, parts of municipalities and settlements in which Serbs were the majority of the population prior to their release in 1999. These territories would cover agricultural land and other areas owned by Serbs before the 1999 war. The territorial autonomy of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija would make up five territorial continents or areas, namely the central-Kosovo, northern-Kosovo, Kosovo-Pomoral, charplaninian and Metohian areas. The most important religious sites and monuments, as well as cultural and historical monuments of the Serb people, which could vehemently meet or connect with the proposed areas, would represent their share. Those who could not do so would demand adequate guarantees from the Serbian state, international guarantees and effective physical protection. These areas would consist of a region that would be a political and legal institution of territorial autonomy within Kosovo and Metohija. The plan envisions double protection of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija through territorial autonomy and through cultural and personal autonomy. This is the essence of everything. In areas where Serbs form a compact population, territorial autonomy is educated in the form of a region with unique legal competences and institutions. In areas of law and jurisdiction, citizens would have the legislative, executive and judicial authority, and this is the essence of the proposal. The authorities of territorial autonomy are the assembly of regions, executively larger regions, authorities and courts. The assembly of the region is the highest representative legislative body of territorial autonomy. An extremely larger region is the institution of the executive authority. The judiciary -- the region has, in addition to the legislative and executive authorities and judicial authority, which operates in areas consisting of one region. The relationship between the temporary institutions of self-government and the region will be regulated normably, so that the region is given a high degree of autonomy compared to the provisional institutions. This is achieved by establishing a wide range of original and transferred competences in which the region acts independently and autonomously. The change in status, which is important, territorial autonomy of the region is not possible without the agreement of at least two-thirds of the total number of MPs in the region. In the event of a conflict of jurisdiction between the authorities of the region and the provisional institutions of self-government, the Kosovo Supreme Court and Metohija decide, with three judges, one Serb, one Albanian, one international judge appointed by the secretary-general's special representative. I would especially like to end up undermining what has been touched or said, and that is the procedure of establishment. It is a new United Nations resolution, which, according to its objectives and contained, is not a new United Nations Security Council resolution and would not replace Resolution 1244, but would only supplement it. The adopted text of the Statute of the Serbian Autonomous Community in Kosovo and Metohija, following appropriate consultations by legitimate representatives of all interested parties, would declare a corresponding regulation by a special representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important document, very comprehensive, whose application can only lead to a solution to the problem that bothers both us and those around us and those far from us, and of course most of us. This plan is a start, a basis and a commitment for everything. Everyone has to stick to it, and he can only possibly build on it, as time and opportunity require. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, as I said at first, that we are entering a new time, at a better time in which we will finally resolve the Kosovo issue and restore Serbs to homes from which they are beastly banished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2618	Thank you. I ask the representative of the SPS parliamentary group to take the floor. The word has a People's MP, Ivica Dacic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2619	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of Kosovo and Metohija is unfortunately our common tragedy, and I think we have spent too long talking about this topic, burdened with various party and ideological differences, accusing each other of what can unfortunately be called a constant of Albanian politics in Kosovo and Metohija, not only in the past decade, but even in the past few decades, and even, as our historians say, over the past few centuries. The constant is a constant, united and persistent desire for Albanians to create an independent Kosovo and Metohija, or independent Kosovo, as they say, through terrorism. Of course, these unpleasant events, as well as those that took place in the past couple of decades – because you could see a few days ago the 80s TV show, if someone were watching them, if they didn't know what year it was, could conclude that the same problem was also related to the 17th and 18th events of this year – the continuation of the ethnic cleansing policy of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The goal of this policy is independent Kosovo and Metohija. The aim of this policy, which is achieved through terrorism, through ethnic cleansing, is that there are no Serbs left in Cosmet. If they had done so, if there were no Serbs in Kosovo, today we wouldn't have anything to discuss here. That is why I think that we all here together, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, we, chosen by the people, should give recognition and gratitude to all Serbs and other non-Albanians who, despite this terrorism and ethnic cleansing, have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija, are aware that this can be dangerous for their lives. Also, I think we should all pay tribute and respect to those who gave their lives to defend their people and their country, not only in the past few weeks and months, but also in all the struggles for the freedom of the Serbian people and for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I have to take this opportunity and remind myself that after a certain period of silence about it, it is necessary to say today and give thanks to those who defended Kosovo and Metohija and when we were exposed to the bombing. Unfortunately, past events have been a sobering for many; not for all, but for many they are. If such a process is possible at all, it is clear that there has been some sobering and those who have spoken for years, burdened by the buildup of relations with previous or earlier authorities, that the problem in Kosovo and Metohija is a problem in the lack of human rights of Albanians. Unfortunately, there are some in the new authorities who continue the continuity of such a policy and what has been said in the previous regime, who have now stated what Carla del Ponte is trying to prove to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which is that they have genocided against Albanians. It is absolutely incorrect that the Serbian state and the Serb people collectively, organised and systematically committed genocide against Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian government said otherwise. You wrote in this plan, you wrote in the Resolution that we unanimously adopted here, that this is a continuation of the policy of ethnic cleansing towards Serbs, which was led in the previous period. I would also remind, as you know, that in the time of the former SFRY, and also during the time of the SRJ, more than $20 billion has been invested in Kosovo and Metohija, that our Republic, the Republic of Serbia, has proposed in Rambuje itself the highest degree of autonomy that exists anywhere in the world, that acceptance of the international breasts is also accepted if the political agreement on Kosovo and Metohija is signed. The only thing that was controversial was the referendum, which was the right to "Kosovo", as they called it, to hold a referendum after three years. That it was accepted in Rambuye, ladies and gentlemen, that we sitting here should be aware that it would happen in 2002. Today, there would be no Serbs in Kosovo, today Kosovo would be an independent state, because the outcome of the referendum, it is clear to all, would be such that Cosmet would be an independent state. After a long period of silence, we again began to talk about the phenomenon of Kosovo and Metohija as a problem of terrorism. I'd like to remind you that in our first declarations after October 5th, we were sort of reluctant to say that it was terrorism. It was even controversial to say, and somehow we came to this formulation that it was extremism, so we wouldn't offend the representatives of the international community. It is clear today that there is both Kosovo and Metohija and terrorism and ethnic cleansing. It's clear that Mrs. Ranta herself, who was a pathologist in the Racak case. She herself admitted that the Racak case was fabricated. I would like to remind that the Markals were manufactured to bomb Serbs in Republika Srpska, and Racak was manufactured to ensure that the bombing of Kosovo and Metohija would follow, that is, the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must say that I think it was the wrong move and amnesty of Albanian terrorists and separatists from Serbian prisons, many who were released from prison later participated in terrorist actions in Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, it was also a mistake to transfer jurisdiction to temporary institutions of self-government, or Cosmeta. It is bad that at times we too have made a positive statement in this congregation and have assessed it as a positive act. Then, we believe that the story of multiethnic Cosmet has failed. These days, to make irony bigger, the world promotes the principles of standards before status. What are the standards currently in force in Kosovo? There is no Cosmet multiethnic Cosmet because Albanians do not want to live in peace with Serbs. A solution to the Kosovo problem for Albanians requires that there are no more Serbs in Kosovo. What is happening in Cosmet is the direct consequence of the non-implementation of Resolution 1244. That resolution, I'll remind you, has a binding character. It was brought on the basis of chapter seven of the United Nations Charter. She was neither victory nor capitulation. If it was a victory, what's going on in Cosmet wouldn't be happening right now. But if it were a capitulation, not everyone here today would have mentioned it as the only straw of salvation for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It was neither victory nor capitulation, it was the result of the bombing of our country and our people. Those who insisted that the resolution be adopted - the international community, they do not respect the resolution today. I would remind you that the resolution reads: peace and security for all citizens, the disarmament of terrorists, the return of refugees and displaced persons, the return of Yugoslav personnel to the military and police for certain purposes and, of course, essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. Of the 280,000 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, only 2% returned to the province. There are about 215,000 non-Albanians living in Kosovo, out of them 150,000 Serbs. Since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, 7,000 terrorist attacks in Kosovo have killed more than 1,200 Serbs, injured and injured more than 1,400 people, kidnapped 1,200 Serbs, destroyed or damaged more than 150 churches and monasteries. In Kosovo, terrorist gangs, Al-Qaeda and Mujahedini rule, but should not go that far. The KLA and Albanian armies are members of the official Kosovo structures, the Kosovo Protection Corps, the Kosovo Police Service, the Government and the Kosovo Assembly and the Metohija and, of course, political parties. Also, no Albanian has been prosecuted as far as the UN tribunal is concerned. In The Hague are Serbs who defended Kosovo and Metohija. Those who have implemented an ethnic cleansing policy, not only are they still at large, but they are released when arrested anywhere in Europe on the basis of an Interpol warrant. That is what the previous Serbian government took part in, sending messages that these are former regime warrants that are not now in force in the new era, during the new regime. They were wanted for terrorism, not a different political opinion. These were warrants against those people who killed not only Serbs, but also Albanians who were loyal citizens of the Serbian state. Also, if we are talking about The Hague, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, to be precise, extradition to The Hague tribunal and on the line of command responsibility have been left behind and will leave great consequences for those who once, God forbid, but should always prepare for it, should participate in the defence of the country. Who will take the risk today to defend his country if he can be extradited to a new Hague tomorrow? It is well known to you that those who participated in the defence of the country are under the so-called ". The investigation process and the big question is for both our government and the whole state, and for the people and the nation – where is the end of the line of command responsibility? Today, in terms of Serbia and Cosmet, although Cosmet remains a formal part of Serbia, even after Security Council Resolution, there is customs and there is no customs between Cosmet and Albania. Today, citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo, when they move to Serbia, sometimes, are also citizens of the second order because of some of our regulations. Also, I've said that before, there's no unique information space. Is it possible, once again, to ask that Serbia's Radio-Television before has footage of Baghdad, Afghanistan and all other countries where American troops are, and to send its correspondents there, without having the first recording of terror and crimes against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Those who followed the media know that the only video that was spinning from Serbia on March 17th and 18th was a recording of a burning mosque. It wasn't a picture of Serbia's death. I do not justify burning the mosque, but is it possible that our media do not consider Cosmet a unique information space for Serbia and Serbs? If it's dangerous for our media to be on Cosmet, then how do we have to ask Serbs to stay in Kosovo and Metohija? Also, economic aid; where Serbs live, economic aid is much more needed perhaps than political support. If we don't help them economically and develop those parts, people won't stay there to live. I call on the government of Serbia and other competent state authorities to regularly pay salaries to our people working in Kosovo and Metohija. You know that wasn't the case in the previous period. Instead of talking about some new projects, let's, let's pay them what the state owes them, what's left of the last government. Finally, of course, I want to say clearly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are still in power of those political parties that were before the elections. Are the political structures of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija informed that the elections in Serbia have been completed? Will the Serbian government do anything on the plan or will the Serb leaders in Kosovo and Metohija continue to be representatives of DHSS, DS or DA? Either you exercise power or you give it to another. There's no other way. We think it's completely clear. The result of the government's failure is that it is at the head of the Coordination Centre still Nebojsa Covic, who has neither participated in the preparation of this document nor is there today. Either Covic will do his job, or replace him. There is no between, for he who stands between shall be run over. You must lead a clear policy regarding Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, I must say, as far as the SPS is concerned, we will certainly vote for the plan, and we said that at the first meeting that was held by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that three attitudes are very important for Kosovo and Metohija. First, that Kosovo and Metohija are inalienable parts of Serbia. Secondly, that Resolution 1244 must be implemented consistently, and thirdly, that good and effective Serbian protection mechanisms must be found before the final status is resolved. The basic lack of this plan, as you all know, is what can happen that the international community will not accept and implement it. That's why I think the government of the Republic of Serbia should immediately prepare mechanisms and ways to protect Serbs and their self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, although the international community will not. One more thing, I think all of us here together need to know clearly and clear with ourselves, will we defend Serbs if ethnic cleansing is done again. There's no philosophy here. It's a difficult decision and we don't call me to war, but in politics and international relations there is so-called. The balance of fear. This assembly must publicly announce that if Serbs are attacked again and re-exposed to ethnic cleansing, Serbia will not sit at arm's length, if we all agree on it, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2620	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. I am taking the opportunity to inform again, so this session has been called solely by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the members of the government. Last time other guests were invited, but since they were offended, and they had no opportunity to answer, I thought there was no need in this case. Here you go, Mr. Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2621	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, I suppose I am the last speaker, and since I come from space, I would like to say this: I am pleased with the political unity and political consensus of the relevant political parties. However, I want to tell you that there is no room for much optimism. This isn't the first and only program. There will be room for optimism and pleasure when we see and move on to its realization. No progress has been made in resolving Kosovo's drama and the tragic situation of Serbs for nearly five years since the arrival of international forces and UN protectorates in the province. It's getting worse all the time. The situation of the Serbian alive is becoming more difficult. Living in conditions of lack of elemental security, under the constant threat of Albanian terrorists, with the kidnapping of property, burning of houses, churches and monasteries, fireplaces, suppressing traces of everything that is Serbian. The latest blow and ethnic cleansing of March 17th and 18th this year left terrible consequences for the rest of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija. A few thousand Serbs were forced out of their dwellings from their hearths, of which only the fires remained. It remains everything to continue the processes leading to the state, economic, cultural and overall separation of Kosovo from Serbia. This is the strongest testimony and new initiatives taken in this direction by Harry Holkeri, head of UNMIK's mission in Kosovo. The establishment of the Foreign Affairs Office in Pristina is only a new step towards establishing the foreign ministry, which is the new act towards Kosovo's independence. Is there more insolence and hypocrisy than such behaviour by international representatives, who instead of relieving the disastrous consequences of ethnic cleansing of Serbs, also take new steps that affect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity in the province. This is the complete absence of action in the elimination of the latest act of ethnic cleansing of Serbs in the province. Serbs in the province find it extremely difficult to accept. Instead of aggressively implementing the return of more than 250,000 exiled and innocent Serbs, new moves are being introduced to make ethnically clean territory in Kosovo. The government's commitment and its authorities in the first phase of the implementation of the plan must be aimed at returning to larger Serb environments in order to strengthen them and later to return to other places. To realize the plan, it is necessary to take measures and provide minimum conditions for the lives of displaced persons who are located in collective centres and live in totally unbearable conditions. In parallel with this, it is necessary to provide for the existence of other displaced persons, whose social situation is very difficult. It is necessary to do everything to finally illuminate the fate of kidnapped and kidnapped persons. The Serbian population has been horrendously affected by the latest events, as about 300 houses in Cosmet have been burned down, few have been promised to rebuild these buildings, and so far only 10 houses have been made in Novi Badovac, and they are in the final phase and they will be painful and difficult and the devils are hard to carry out the distribution of these houses, because it is 300 families, or the offer is less than the demands and problems that the people have. Everything else is just about the plans and the sparring of some emissaries, who allegedly do a damage assessment and make great promises. Families whose houses are burned out are their homes. They live in extremely unbearable conditions, and in recent days I have personally convinced myself that more than 150 people in the elementary school "King Milutin" in Gracanica, in containers in the area of ownership of "Vocara" and in the areas of the Coordination Centre live in impossible unhygienic conditions. By yesterday, prominent rural hosts were brought into a state of extreme humiliation, with portions on the common table, without any guarantees, and it appears that the situation will soon be changed. It has not been defined and there is no regulated issue of financing and feeding these families, the whole burden has fallen to the Children's School in Gracanica, and these days there are problems, funds are missing, and food is missing. All these events have an impact on increased emigration, and this will be even more pronounced after the school year is over, when children are scheduled to be moved and their accommodation in areas of central Serbia. The purchase of apartments and crying for construction of houses in Serbia has been reinforced, and I have information, due to the state of agony, uncertainty, apathy, daily intimidation, that 17th and 18th will happen again and that in certain villages and Serbian environments, serious consideration is being given to highlight the table - the village for sale. Nothing or little is done at all to restore and protect cultural and historical monuments, churches and monasteries. The only positive move in all is that these days, after justified and well-founded protests and hunger strikes, the payoff and compensation of workers in the economy began, and I hope that injustice will soon be corrected for workers in the administration, because they are paid late and a few months later, although employees in them provide services to achieve basic citizens' rights. These other moves by the Serbian government must not be delayed, as each waiting is multiplely harmful, both emergency personal and personnel changes in institutions are necessary, and this would significantly contribute to faster realisation and invigoration of the plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian government's decision on a plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija was made amongst the Serbian living with approval. The Serbs, in fact, see the only straw of salvation in a safe and honest bid on the state to, with the involvement of all potentials, institutions and offensive action, and above all with the right coordination and full competence of all authorities, institutions and co-ordination of foreign policy activities, establish precise obligations to establish real frameworks for territorial autonomy and to ensure conditions for the survival of Serbs and their return to homeland. I am expressing the reserve, however, that a plan for the political solution of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija will occur in the first place, as it is conditioned by the adoption of a new Security Council resolution, and it is uncertain whether certain guarantees exist, with the concern that the new resolution will be more unfavourable than the existing Resolution 1244. Therefore, an additional question is justified, what will be the alternative in case a new UN Security Council resolution is not adopted if the requirements for strengthening the existing organisation and personnel infrastructure in Kosovo and Metohija are justified, in order to provide the people with minimum living conditions. To the realization, to revive the proposed plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I believe that the plan and its realization on the ground and practice will face serious difficulties and problems. For example, there will be a conflict of jurisdiction in the area of justice. For example, in the case of a traffic violation between the two parties of different nationalities, a question arises which court will be in charge and whether the jurisdiction of the local court will be accepted. The difficulties will arise in territorial demarcation, in applying the rights and obligations of the region, because in certain regions, mixed environments and environments are completely physically separated. An eclectic example is the proposal of a central part or a Kosovo-central area as proposed here; from the southern part of Pristina we have Gracanica and several more Serb villages, in northern Pristina we have four villages, Donja and Gornja Brnjic, Nine Yugoslavia and Lebanon, how the plan and implementation of this plan will apply in the part, and between Pristina and Gracanica there are two Albanian settlements that will be territorially and physically belonging to the central area. I draw attention to these problems in order to draw attention to them in the upcoming work, when making data that these issues are being worked out, that is to say, to find the right solutions. In the end, high expectations among the Serbian population are from a plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and this is seen as the last chance to provide conditions for a safe, normal life and survival in Kosovo's premises, as well as the return of exiled Serbs to their hearths. The SPS recently brought a memorandum on its bodies to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija, and I would like to say to this occasion that there is a lot in common between the memorandum and this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2622	I ask a representative of the MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs to take the floor. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2623	I am Ljiljana Nestorovic, representative of the Social Democratic Party. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, honourable fellow Members, I will not as some of my predecessors begin my presentation with an analysis of the age-old and decade-old policy which is successful or unsuccessful, depending on how anyone speaks, leading to Kosovo and by various authorities in Serbia and in line with the various, obviously unique, centuries-old interest of Albania, and by the international community or those who represented it. I would like to make my modest contribution to this discussion and simply underline my impression, which is that this proposal by the Government, in terms of a plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo, is really a document that we can agree on here, and I think that, if we do so, it will essentially be the most significant quality of this conversation today and what will be the beginning of a common political strategy on the Kosovo-Methohic problem. What is also a very important quality of this proposed political solution is the fact that it somehow respects the overall constitution, and that in the international community, I mean the political constitution, and here in Serbia, as well as in Kosovo and Metohija. I find this constitution very complicated, that without respecting these complicated relationships this document and this plan have no chance of success. What is very important is that we cannot expect the international community, primarily the European Union, to make some radical and hasty moves in terms of changing its policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that, although there are clear indications that this policy, the five-year policy that Europe is conducting in Kosovo and Metohija, has been a failure, especially since March, that the security system has completely broken down, Europe has no power, nor can we expect that it will explicitly recognise that defeat, to define its whole new policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, that is, on the Kosovo-methological issue. It's something that takes time, and it's something that we here suggest that in defining these things, as we do today, we must, in addition to our own interests, take into account what is Europe's interest, or what its possibilities are today. I believe that from enough official and high places of Europe, more and more often and more convincingly arriving, both from diplomatic and expert levels, it is simple to know that it is the wrong policy or at least the wrong policy in the great part of it, as it has been in the past five years, since 1999 until today, implemented in Kosovo and Metohija. It has clearly proved that transitional institutions are not a good framework for Serbs as minorities today in Kosovo and Metohija guaranteeing elemental security. What we must ask Europe in the first following communications, therefore, with those who represent it, is that it is possible at all that anyone in that Europe, who respects and at least declareably advocates certain standards recommended for Kosovo, can imagine a situation in which the general elections will be held in Kosovo in October, as planned. How about someone representing a Serb party or a Serb minority to run a policy and elemental democratic action that concerns the election, if there are no conditions for an elemental life to protect his property, to keep his head alive on his shoulders. I believe that after the March events, the price is huge, it's paid, but it can't be in vain, we get a chance to change that international vision. We've got strong arguments, and I think it's all a chance to take advantage of it. What it will depend on is how ready we are here to reach a consensus about it and how sincerely we are prepared to freeze our internal and inter-party polemics, in order to truly unisonally present ourselves in front of all possible international forums, where we are able to express our interests. I therefore believe that this approach brings quality, I think it represents, once again, a good basis for formulating a clear strategy and achieving some of the interests that are ours in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that Kosovo's final status cannot be spoken of in the near future, I believe that Serbia should insist that we talk about Kosovo's final status in the context of some integration processes that we are seeking, therefore, in terms of integration in Europe, both Serbia, Kosovo and the whole region. I think we'll have a much better position then, get time, strengthen the state in other ways. So it's all something this document provides and, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party MPs, a small one, but I believe, the number chosen, I want to give support for this kind of document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-29-0.u2624	I'm concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on the single agenda of this session - a proposal for a decision to set a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and the Metohija, in accordance with Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the 29th apartil in 2004 as a voting day. We'll do the vote right away. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, in general. For 208, it did not vote seven out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to establish a plan for a political solution to the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. In accordance with Article 95 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004.
