ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, with great satisfaction and full confidence, I propose Mr Predrag Markovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, unfortunately, we had a lot of problems with the state and its institutions. The healing process has begun, and I believe we must start with the Serbian parliament -- to restore the dignity of the Serbian parliament, both the institutions and every MP in this House. I believe that Mr Predrag Markovic is a person who will respect all the political views and all the differences in this House, that he will insist on similarities in parliament, that every MP will have equal treatment in the work of this Parliament, and therefore I believe that he should absolutely be supported as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, I call on all MPs to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1125	Thank you. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Has anyone suggested a lengthy debate? No, I don't. Thank you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 11(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Does anyone else want a word in article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the search. According to Article 11(5), Rules of Procedure, I am setting out a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly, where only one candidate is: PREDRAG MARKOVIC. The National Assembly will hold a vote in the day of voting the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE OBLIGATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTS ON THE WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT ORGANISATION IN THE TRADE OF ELECTRIC Energy AND FINANCE-BANCARY VALIDS You have received a proposal for a decision, which has been tabled by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You have received amendments from MPs George Mamula and John Palalic. The amendments that will be filed until the start of the search will be sent to you during the session. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not yet done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic, want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group has tabled a proposal to form this polling committee and I do not think today that by any statement, I prejudge the work and attitudes of the Analytical Committee. I went out for a pay phone just to ask you to vote for the formation of a survey board. Obviously, it has to be formed. Obviously, there are too many texts in public, too many serious accusations to go over it. The Bureau will try to determine the truth. You know that in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism there are successful and unsuccessful survey committees. I'm sure this one will be a success. The work of this polling committee depends on whether Serbia will go a completely different way or the agony of most Serbian citizens will continue and their withdrawal from the powerful financial lobbies, which have led most Serbian citizens to the brink of existence. I repeat, the charges are serious. In our opinion, robbery is a long-standing and documentation owned by the Serbian Radical Party at the moment can be measured by kilograms. It's all credible evidence. We accept the amendments submitted by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia and which are being introduced by the presummation of innocence. So, the polling committee does not go forward with its position, but will follow the position based on the work of the polling committee. We want the work of the polling committee to be public. I know that the Industry Committee is seriously dealing with this issue and that it too has certain documentation. All MPs are welcome to participate in the work of the polling committee. We'd like it to start right now, to end within a reasonable period of time. If there are people we have called out in public, who are innocent, we will publicly apologize, but that's why we expect from the state authorities, if we provide enough convincing evidence, that they don't stand at anyone's door, that no one is protected because he's in the government, because he's a favorite of the government, because he has money, because he bought souls or intended to buy them. I don't use hard words, but the situation is alarming. If the bread is collected tomorrow, it could be said that it is the source of that gathering in the financial lobby that shakes Serbia. I now call it the Energy Mafia, and I expect the right qualifications to be given by the board of inquiry. No document we have will remain hidden from the committee of inquiry. I ask the committee of inquiry to give an opportunity to all who have been called to justify themselves before the committee of inquiry. I call on the authorities to respond to every call from the polling committee, to testify before it, not to hide behind anything, behind any function they take and if the truth is established, it will be easier for all of us in Serbia. That is why I urge you once again to vote in favour of forming a committee of inquiry. We suggest that our member of the polling committee be president of the polling committee as well. You'll see that it's the most ready, you'll see that, as far as we're concerned, the survey board can start working immediately after the constitution. We're not taking part in the debate. We believe that this has been enough for serious people, for those whom the people have chosen, for them to start on their heads, and for all of us to be honest, and all of us in this room are congratulating, we vote that only good jobs are being done in Serbia. Unfortunately, you'll see, that's what I'm convinced, that mobsters are shaking Serbia and they're not interested in changing power, and it doesn't depend whether it's a one-party or a multi-party system, whether we have free elections, whether we have democratically elected power. The Mafia doesn't have a choice, it has money and power, and if individuals in the campaign represented themselves as people supported by the mob, they'd never sit with us in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1127	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1128	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group supported the formation of this polling committee on the agenda. We find it unusual for the functioning of the rule of law to see whether, when and in what way, electricity trade malfeasances and financial-banking abuses took place. As a parliamentary group, we have responded only to the qualification, or suggested that this qualification "mafian" be deleted, because it is precisely the task of the committee of inquiry to determine what the facts are in this matter. I think it's a consequential solution for the opposition to be chairman of the board. We don't mind, since the Serbian Radical Party's proposal is for the president to come from the Serbian Radical Party. We will actively participate in this survey committee's work and support the work of the survey committee in this regard, regardless of what the results are and what party membership of the people involved in the crime are. Crime is a crime, there is no political mark, there is no party paint, and we, as a parliamentary group, will consistently support and actively participate in the work of this polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1129	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1130	Dear fellow MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia supports not only the work of this polling committee, but, in line with our pre-election promises, research of all malversions, possible and alleged abuses and similar phenomena in our society. Not only about electricity, as this committee should do, but also about all other abuses, malfeasances, violations of criminal law. That is why we absolutely support the work of this committee and we will vote for it. Mr. Mamula, the distinguished colleague and MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, will be our member on this committee. I would only ask the committee from this pay phone that the facts that it has come to in its work not only save for itself, that it not only represents them to the public, but that if they find that such things have happened, they will be handed over in the shortest time to the investigative authorities, either to the prosecution in Belgrade, to the police, etc. After all, let the committee, if necessary, draw up some criminal reports. So, the work of this survey committee should not only come down to public disclosure of such malfeasances and abuses, if any, but should result, if found, in some criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1131	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1132	Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party of Serbia voted in favour of a proposal to discuss this by an urgent procedure. Of course, we will vote in favour of the education of this survey committee, along with the amendments proposed. I think Serbia owes one truth about everything that's happened and it doesn't matter when it happens, it doesn't matter who's involved in all these things, but the committees of inquiry can't be a substitute, nor can the euphemism for the work of the judicial and competent state authorities. We think survey committees should also be formed for a number of other affairs that have occurred in Serbia over the past few years. You remember the sugar affair, and there's an affair about wheat exports. Of course, there are many other political affairs. I hope there will be an end to the affair soon as there has been a false vote in the Serbian Parliament. There is no polling committee on this issue, but we expect the prosecutor to react soon to the occasion, after hearing almost everyone who was the actors of the event. We also expect polling committees to be formed soon and related to what we heard at the meetings of the Defence and Security Committee, about who managed the security services of the MUP in the past period, who wrote statements behind which the MUP stood, and today they claim they never wrote it. A great deal is needed in Serbia by polling committees, as Serbia has no answer to many of the issues that have been happening over the past period. The SPS will support the formation of this polling committee. It is necessary to establish full truth, to establish the truth about everything, to find the culprits, of course, to see who is behind all these lobbies, and I hope that the committees of inquiry will come up with relevant data that could benefit the competent state authorities in running the process to the end. Serbia is the need for truth about everything that has happened, no matter who it is. All we have to do is watch what it's all about. The SPS will support this action committee, and it will itself propose the formation of a few more survey committees on other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1133	Thank you. Here you go. Please, just say on what basis. Are you a representative of the parliamentary group or...? (Zoran Ćirkovic: Representative of the SP-NS parliamentary group. I'm sorry, we didn't get anything in writing that you were a representative of the parliamentary group. (Zoran Ćirkovic: You received oral. ) Please, written authority before the search. It didn't come, I'm sorry. Before the search, there must be written authority. You see, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, and I'd like to ask you, since there hasn't been any prior search of authority, so don't take your word for it. Do you have the authority? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the amendments submitted and the proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF SERBIA I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 17. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received two proposals for candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. You have been served with proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. As you have seen, MPs were proposed for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly: Dusan Perović, DS member and Emilia Krstic, member of the DSS. Since, according to Article 18(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur, has the right to explain the proposal, asking if the rapporteurs want to explain candidates' proposals for vice-presidents of the National Assembly? They do. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1134	Dear MPs, Miss Emilia Krstic is a national MP in the second term. By her work in the National Assembly so far, she has proved to be a responsible, reliable, and worthy MP. He has great experience in Parliament's work. It's about a peaceable and tolerated person. We believe that it will be worthy of representing this parliament as its vice-president. Personally, it's about a decent and honest person who enjoys a great reputation in Soko Banja. The DSS believes it is very good for this parliament to get another vice-president of the Belgrade-based assembly and is a member of the minority gender assembly, which is majority in the country. The last thing I can say is that Emilia Krstic chose to live modestly as a people, not angryly as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1135	Thank you. Does the other promoter want a word? No, I don't. I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 18(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pitiæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1136	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mr Dusan Petrovic from our parliamentary club, I am taking the opportunity to invite you to support his candidacy as vice president of the National Assembly. Mr. Petrovic is a graduate lawyer, so someone who will contribute to the functioning of parliament's work with their expertise. It belongs to the opposition group, but in accordance with the good practice of this Parliament, opposition MPs and MPs who make up the parliamentary majority have the right to be vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Mr Petrovic was born in 1966 in Šapec and is currently in charge of President SO Sabac. In the previous term, he was an MP for the SRJ Assembly, and we are convinced that with quality work, as he has so far shown, both in the municipal assembly and in the federal parliament, he will contribute to the achievement of those parliamentary values that the DS advocates. So I urge you once again to vote for Mr Petrovic as DS candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1137	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted only one parliamentary group of DS – Boris Tadic and with one proposal, MP Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable Presidency, before I address this proposal, I would like to ask a question to the honourable Presidency: in what capacity does Mr Predrag Markovic sit at this table behind me, since he is a candidate for the president of the Assembly? Since the agenda is the choice of vice presidents, the number of vice presidents is limited, I don't know how many vice presidents will have after this election. I would like to ask Mr. Markovic, accepting the president's candidacy, if he has resigned as vice president. When I hear the answer to that question, then I can start with my discussion. He wanted them to hear from Mr. Markovic if he resigned as vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1139	Mr. Markovic will answer you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1140	If Mr Markovic has so far not resigned in the prescribed form, written and delivered to the Assembly, then the question is whether we can even make a choice of president and vice president of the Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is a number of numerus Klaus, meaning a limited number of performers of these functions. Therefore, we do not have the opportunity to make a choice unless we are given a break and Mr Markovic in writing informs the Assembly that he has resigned. But I am surprised that Mr. Markovic and his party, who has grown from an expert group and boasts that in a very thoughtful, legitimate and constitutional manner they will perform all public functions, have not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the Assembly is able to select the highest state-level holders. In addition, I did not notice in Mr Markovic's biography this very fact that, apart from the MPs, the vice president of the National Assembly, which is why I find the agenda offered to be wrong and unacceptable. First we had to discuss the vice presidents, see if Mr. Markovic would remain vice-president of the National Assembly, then determine as a part of the agenda the election of the National Assembly president. So, as Mrs Natasa Micic first resigned as vice president. I ask, if we choose Mrs. Parliament, which is the DSS proposal, and Mr. Markovic has previously failed to resign, how will they sit? I don't mean to be insinuate, but it seems to me that, in addition to the formal ones, you have practical shortcomings in this proposal. But let's get back to the point. When we consider the proposal to elect the president of the National Assembly, in the explanation that we have received from the proposings, we cannot see why the future president will stand. Whether it will push for parliament's reform, whether it will raise the issue of a new constitution as chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, whether it will soon call elections for the president of the state. Because, given the parties that are in favour, at least verbally and in the pre-election campaign, for the construction and reform of institutions, for the completion and constitutional functioning of them, I expect that the future president of the Assembly will just launch this initiative to amend the Constitution and to call presidential elections. However, this explanation does not speak of it. It is obvious that the pre-election promises offered by these parties are not contained in the proposal and that we have no guarantee that the future president of the assembly will stand up for what these parties have received support from citizens in the previous elections. I expect the President of the Assembly to raise the issue of amending the Rules of Procedure, to bring the number of Assembly committees in line with the number of mandates in the future government, so that the Assembly can indeed have a control post over the work of the executive authorities. In this way, we have received a fully politicised government, which will obviously control Parliament's work and act contrary to what they promised in the election campaign. Therefore, the DS is proposing as a candidate for the Vice-President of the Assembly a person who will advocate parliamentary reform, for an independent assembly budget, for the establishment of assembly committees in accordance with the executive structure, we will be pushing for the budgeting and participation of the Assembly in the creation of an independent assembly budget, so that the figure proposed by the DS guarantee that it will be implemented. I expect that after the resolution of this issue of business, the election will be joined and that the Assembly will support the DS candidate, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1141	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1142	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Ristic, unfortunately I don't have my glasses on me, but I assume you see well and you can look at Article 33, which clearly states in which case the post of Vice President of the National Assembly ceases. Therefore, by way of resignation, resolution or termination of the term of office of the Members of Parliament, by procedure and in a manner designed for the termination of office of the President of the National Assembly. During the search and the proposal for candidacy for the seat of the National Assembly, of course according to the Rules of Procedure, I did not sit at this table because I am forbidden to participate, manage or assist in the management of this agenda. As you have seen, you have sat here, and now that there are other points of the agenda, of course I am helping from the post of vice president, to which, of course, by law, I will resign either by choice for the post of president, either directly before I voted for the post of president, which I have consulted with the professional service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1143	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1144	I have no intention of contesting anyone's candidacy, it was one agreement between all MPs' clubs, that all MPs' clubs would vote for all candidates for the vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we will vote in favour of both of these proposals for vice presidents. I answered because of what Mr. Ristic was saying. Given that, Mr. Ristic, I am not using my right as head of Parliament's club, I would like to say that it is inappropriate that at this time, when it comes to the election of vice presidents, we are talking about some other topics that naturally come out of the circle of what we are discussing here. But what I'm saying is that Mr. Ristic, when he was already talking about someone's resignations, was on the Administrative Committee that had seven SPS MPs in front of him, who he thought was invalid. He was on the Administrative Board, which allowed him to steal votes and mandates, was on the Administrative Committee, which found that Neda Arneric was in this room, not in Bodrum, and was on the Administrative Committee, which found that DS MPs, who returned to the post of MPs, even though their mandate ended and resigned, were in legal and factual error. I don't know who's deluded here, I just want to say that the election of vice presidents is a topic that has the consensus of all political parties. Let us not burden everything with fighting for some alleged political points, which will come to grips with those who encourage it. It is extremely incorrect that in a month, since the term of office or two months since the last term of the Serbian Parliament, those who led here have now been preceded by the theft of mandates, the theft of votes and the conversion of the National Assembly into one naked instrument of the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, speak some other tones. Wait a little while to pass, try to forget about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1145	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1146	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't expect Mr Dacic to take a different view, because for 10 years they have been distracting the people, and here they are trying to throw dust in the eyes of the citizens of Serbia. What we're talking about here is one questionable thing, which is that we have a certain number of vice presidents. We now have a proposal to elect two new vice presidents. It means that by choosing those two vice presidents, we'll get more than the Rules of Procedure. Those who know how to count can count the number of vice presidents at the cathedral. As for the Administrative Board and everything you've been saying, Mr. Dacic, it's absolutely incorrect. As for MPs and mandates in the Assembly, I must remind all MPs that the first decision to withdraw the mandate was signed by a member of the DSS, Mr Jocic, the current police minister. He signed the first decision to take office for MPs of the then Social Democracy. At the same time, I would like to remind you that you as a parliamentary group have disputed the Constitutional Court's decision and filed a request for the removal of five seats from the MPs, noting that you do not accept that the MPs are the owners of those mandates. The DSS still has a request from the Administrative Board to withdraw the term of office of Mr Golubovic, an MP from Kragujevac, thereby denying the Constitutional Court's decision. So, they only verbally advocate the application of constitutional principles, respecting the Constitutional Court's decisions, and practically advocate violation of the Constitution and the law. So we also have the fact that the current DSS MP is the Secretary-General of the Government, and they talk about the division of power and the adoption of a new constitution, where everyone will know what he's doing, according to the Constitution. So much for consistency, so much for the application of the rule of law and the equality of citizens under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1147	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1148	Since Mr. Ristic or Comrade Ristic, however you wish, misread my words, I want to correct myself. He wasn't a member, he was chairman of the Administrative Committee. I want to make it right. Our former MPs, and your bypasses, the MPs of Banet Ivkovic, were asked to accept their resignations in April 2002, and the Constitutional Court's decision was in May 2003, comrades and fellow Democrats. So let's not mix those two things up. Also, I don't want to miss this opportunity to say that, of course, we will vote for a candidate from our ideological closest Democratic Party, Comrade Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1149	Mr. Ristivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1150	Just a brief replica of Mr. Ristic's exposure to an esteemed colleague. The DSS has never voted to kidnap anyone, so neither have the MPs you mentioned here - the Social Democrats. What is true is that Mr. Jocic, who was the first president of the Administrative Board, signed the decision of the Administrative Board, where you had the majority, so you decided to take the mandates. As chairman of the Committee, the decision of the Committee cannot be signed, otherwise it would be an attempt to take power in this House. Just one more thing: you're the last one here who can come out for this pay phone and talk about a vote. You were the chairman of the Administrative Board who refused to implement the Constitutional Court decisions. You did it. You refused to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which returned those mandates that you adopted. Where did you get the courage to go out for this pay phone and say anything about it? You're talking about seducing some order in parliament, and for three and a half years, you've had time to seduce order here. Instead, you stole mandates and stole votes. Now all of a sudden, you thought of seducing order. Why didn't you seduce him for three and a half years?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1151	There's no replica on the replica. On what grounds? What part of the Rules of Procedure do you report to?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1152	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for the replica, because Mr. Dacic has reported to the Rules of Procedure, and he has caused a replica. You find the basis for the replica, I don't want to teach. You also have a secretary, and you have enough legal experience. So, when it comes to the objection that the Administrative Committee did not respect the resignations of the SPS members at the time, Mr Dacic, rightly has to resign - a statement of will to be given in a dubious manner. Those MPs, to whom you are calling, told the Administrative Committee that their resignations were extorted and did not want to submit signed resignations in the original before the Administrative Board. Therefore, it was not possible for the party to resign in another's name, past the statement of will of the person concerned. As for the DSS, I would remind the gentleman of the party that Mr Kostunica raised his hand at the DOS presidency and voted that the mandates belong to the coalition. (Branislav Ristivojevic, from the place: It is not true. It's absolutely true. In this way, Mr Jocic signed the withdrawal of Mr Ljubomir Slavkovic's mandate from Social Democracy. When you said, young sir, that the Administrative Board did not want to apply the Constitutional Court's decision, still the Administrative Board has not resolved your request to withdraw the term of office of Mr Golubovic, your former member. I expect the current composition of the Administrative Board to decide and reject as an unfounded request of the DSS, which you wanted to obstruct the application of the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, act in harmony with your actions, or the people will soon judge that you were engaged in demagogy and pure verbalism in the pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1153	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1154	I've got 20 minutes, I've used 10 and I've got 10 more. Mr. Nikolic, I respect the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, there is no need to warn me. You have the right to speak. I'm not contesting anyone's right to speak. I think radicals speak and use their time, and don't question other people's rights when no one's challenging you. I don't want to make full use of the time given for this agenda, because it's quite clear that this is where they're going to vote for both candidates. I just want to confirm one more time: former SPS MPs, so-called. Banet Ivkovic's group signed resignations in their party. They were never on the Administrative Board, and they never said that these resignations were not valid. The fact that you held those resignations in drawers until you fell from power speaks enough of you to maintain this previous rule. I only hope that no one will ever think of it in this assembly to play with it and to be held in power without the existing majority in Serbia's parliament. That's why I came forward, just to talk about it all, irritated by the previous discussion, given that the former Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia carried out counter-laws and counter-constitutional acts, without respecting what it respected among everyone else. They respected the resignations of all other political parties, except those whose so-called political parties. The apostates were, because they were supposed to gall for the budget, to vote for the government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, to put an end to what I've been saying so far, I just want to mention once more, the SPS will vote for these two vice presidents, which of course doesn't mean that we agree with those parties whose representatives are, but that was the agreement between political parties and I don't think it was a good idea that this topic would start today at all, when an agreement has been reached between political parties, that all political parties vote in favour of the proposals of all parliamentary groups for vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1155	The word is Mr Boris Tadic and then Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out once again that the Rules of Procedure have been violated and I would like to ask you to hold a session in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dacic has reported that he is speaking for the remaining ten minutes, and the topic of this agenda is - the election of vice presidents, not Banet Ivkovic's resignation. You used, Mr. Dacic, this time to replicate and you broke the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 99, I would like to point out that the Rules of Procedure are not taken into account and that you should hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1157	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1158	I thought that this item of the agenda would pass without debate and that I would just have to warn whoever was elected president of the assembly that he should call elections for the president of Serbia and that I would appreciate whether he respected the Constitution and the laws or did not respect them. Something like an attitude is being imposed after these half-hours of fight and debate. You see that it is not worth stealing, and I address it to all, and to those who have exercised power until yesterday, and to those who exercise power since yesterday. Never steal, not in any love that you are with those who have a majority, because most are formed and torn apart. For a while, you all had a good time while you were stealing, and then it started to rash, and some felt threatened, and indeed individuals continued to the same manner until the shift of power. That's why I'm asking you to take this congregation seriously. Here, we radicals, which we have suffered most from all the authorities in this Serbia, do not mention it to anyone, the people see it, and therefore in the elections they vote for us. So try to bury the hatchet, too. We've got a lot of work to do. If such criminals really led the country, if many have helped them, let's re-establish the polling committee now, here, we accept and let the survey committee deal with it. Don't let 230 of us deal with it today when someone was stealing, when someone was at the session, and when you weren't, when you kept the reserve mandates, when you weren't, and none of you were immune to it. One thing is notable: "Whoever comes down, now he's worse, who gets worse, now he's down." Never forget that, ever. Don't argue this much with those of you who stick around so you don't fall out, and you'll get on this train, because this train won't get far, and that's obvious. So please, we will not force ourselves to discuss in this congregation unless something is very important and when we care to explain why we are against it. We will never praise you when you work well. We don't want to interfere with your personnel solutions. He'll be the president of the assembly that you've defined yourself for. It seems a little illogical to me that a small political party is giving the president of the assembly. That tells me you don't appreciate that function. It is repeated from mandate to mandate. Always as a change, as a sata comes the seat of the president of the National Assembly. I wish it was a vital, basic function in this country. As a matter of fact, you're undermining yourself about boards of directors, about the abbeys, about it; not about the president of the National Assembly, because through this function you're looking at the power of a state, the power of a parliament. We won't speak personally who we'd like to see as president. All I'm talking about is that I'd like to get behind that man is strength, not coalition power, but power in the elections. To warn you, your power in the election is very small, each of you individually, never forget that. You've gathered, you've assembled, you've got your strength here, and do you have it on the street? Do you have among your voters, do you have among your membership, would the membership of a large political party now say with a list that, yes, from this other party should be the president of the National Assembly. Yes, we won the election there, and now we're going to divide the congregations, so we're going to divide the governments, and we're going to give these little ones functions to help us rule. It was not a wish, and I warn you that for what you are doing now you will be just as punished as those you are now warning about what they were doing. This congregation needs seriousness, and we will not disturb you from being serious. We're not politically naive either. If there's a good atmosphere here, the radicals won't jump out, but if there's a fight like this that doesn't lead to anything that doesn't mean anything, you may even be running these sessions without Serbian radicals. We have a lot of serious business ahead of us, we Serbian radicals, to stop you from ruining the country too much this year and getting ready to take over. You clean up what you're accusing each other of, then you'll be acceptable to the SRS for some co-operation, and I'm talking to you now, because so far I've been talking to who we're not going to coalition with. You'll see why, when they're all under investigation and when it's determined who stole everything, many parties will be cleared. Then the parties will cooperate. We'll cooperate with everyone, but obviously, after discussions like this that I could laugh at, I'm a witness to everything that's been going on, obviously that the cleaning isn't over, that you need more purification, and obviously you've brought the manners of the previous government back into this assembly, and it doesn't lead to anything good. I suggest we end this debate, end today's vote and split up. I think we've spent too much of our people's energy these days. The elected president, whom you have provided for most, I warn - from tomorrow we call him on all the media we can appear on, to see when he dares to call elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. The one of you who says in the paper that tomorrow's election is due, we'll take to the coalition after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1159	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Allow me to, according to Article 18(5). Rules of Procedure, I lay down a list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the alphabetical order of last names: MP Emilija Krstic and MP Dusan Petrovic. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint the 4th of March 2004 as a day of galvanizing, starting at 12:00 p.m. [[After break – 12,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please confirm the quorum. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (vote) As the National Assembly has carried out the search and since it is in agreement with Article 11(5). Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 12. Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of the MPs, Article 13. Rules of Procedure. I suggest that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote. I am putting the motion to vote on the election of the National Assembly president by a public vote. For 158, against 64, nine, a total of 231 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of the president of the National Assembly will take place by public vote. Therefore, the choice will be made by a public vote - by a pronunciation. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs, Article 13. Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you he's a 120. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for the implementation of the public vote - by a call and that, as provided for in that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly should be called by the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name. Each appointed MP pronounces the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Predrag Markovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. Avramov Mita (against), Albianić Miloljub (za), Aligrudić Miloš (za), Anastasovski Dragoljub (against), Andrić Vladimir (za), Angelkovic Zoran (za), Antić Zoran (against), Antonijević Dr Vuko (za), Arsic Veroljub (against), Blažić Branislav (za), Banović Donka (za), Baralić Rajko (za), Belić Milorad (za), Beretić Anita (za), Bečić Igor (again), Blažić Branislav (agat), Vladanovic Mr. Nenadak (out), Bošak Branka (za), Boković Radović Radović (zanović) (Zaktržavić) Ževinović (Zevinović) Vladimirović Zivović (aga (anti), Vladimirović Zivović Zivić (aga (anti), Vlačić), Vlačić) (12.50 to 13.00 hours - counting. ) Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 233 MPs who joined the vote as candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 150 MPs voted against 82, and one MP was abstentioned. Dear MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Predrag Markovic received most of the votes of MPs who joined the vote and that the National Assembly for National Assembly President has chosen Predrag Markovic. Let me congratulate Predrag Markovic on the election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf and on my behalf. I would like to inform you that Predrag Markovic has resigned as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does Predrag Markovic want to explain his resignation? No, I don't. I remind you he's a member of 33. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall provide that, in the event of the resignation, the Vice-President of the National Assembly shall cease office in a manner designed for the termination of office of the President of the National Assembly. I ask the President of the National Assembly to take over the chair of the National Assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me just a few sentences before I continue to hold the session. Last night, in the solemn atmosphere here, we heard an appraisal and one obligation. The assessment was that this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had already changed the atmosphere in its work and I think we confirmed it today. That's what I thank you for. We have heard one promise, which we all promise together, whether we call ourselves representatives of position or opposition, which is that executive power will be controlled from this home. We like to hold people to our word, but also to respect our legal obligations. I am bound by two acts: one is the Constitution, and of course I will respect all obligations towards the Constitution, but in advance I say that I have no intention of using all the powers; the other is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which helps us all to contribute to a better atmosphere together, because there is nothing worse than blasphemous authority and blasphemous opposition, then they destroy the Assembly together. I was asked a few questions during the afternoon debate from this pay phone, and I want to answer now. Of course, within the deadlines, I will call elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia, because my position is known: the head of state can be someone at birth or elected directly. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he must be elected directly and of course I will respect those deadlines. But on that and around the Rules of Procedure, I ask all of you to help restore this home's reputation and to perform its function, and it belongs to the highest function in this country. I don't take today's vote as personal support, but as a support that this institution is working effectively and efficiently, and I'm here to help all of you. So help me God. We move to a vote on the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE TO MAKE A CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTS ON THE WORK OF THE INTERNATIONAL MAFILIC ORGANISATION IN THE TRADE OF ELECTRIC Energy AND FINANCE-BANCARY WILDINGS The National Assembly has carried out a single review of the proposal for a decision. As MPs' representative Tomislav Nikolic accepted the amendments of MPs Djordja Mamula and Jovan Palalic, making them an integral part of the motion for a decision, we move to a decision on the proposal for a decision, in general. I'm putting the motion to vote, in general. For 220, it did not vote five out of a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Before we move to the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that the National Assembly at the First Session has chosen five vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since, meanwhile, a decision has been made to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that the National Assembly has six vice-presidents, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 16(2). The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, by a special decision, determines the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this meeting. I suggest that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice presidents of the National Assembly in this meeting. I'm putting on a motion that the National Assembly determines that there are six vice presidents in this meeting. For 220, two abstentions, three of the 225 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and since it is in agreement with Article 18(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, remind you that, according to Article 19. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote by making a statement to the MPs for each candidate individually - by raising their hands or by calling. Is there any suggestion on how to vote? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1162	I have two suggestions. First of all, on the polling committee, I suggest we make a decision that the president of the National Assembly convenes the first session of the polling committee tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. There remains some gap when a caller, when the first session will be held and members will be appointed by the parliamentary groups, bring evidence that the parliamentary group has proposed them as a member of the polling committee. That's one proposal and I'm asking you to put it to a vote. Secondly, I suggest we vote publicly, by raising hands or in parliamentary units, since we are all agreed on who will be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1163	I am informing MPs that I will call for the first session of the polling committee immediately following the receipt of a proposal from all parliamentary groups for members of the committee of inquiry. I hope it works tomorrow. Do you insist on putting it to a vote? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: My proposal is to schedule for tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. ) I would like to put to the vote Tomislav Nikolic's proposal to schedule a session of the Committee of Auditors, whose formation we voted today, tomorrow, March 5th, at 10.00 p.m. For 219, the three abstentions were not voted by three, of the 225 MPs. I find that most votes accept Tomislav Nikolic's proposal that the first session of the survey committee is tomorrow at 10.00. I ask representatives of all parliamentary groups to deliver today or tomorrow no later than 10.00 a.m. the names of their representatives. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by a secret vote, by pardon, by public vote - by raising your hand. I'm putting this motion to the vote, to vote publicly by raising your hand. For 213, against one, abstention four, did not vote six, out of a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has decided to make the election of the vice president public vote by raising the hand. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly is done by public vote - by raising your hand, I remind you that the public vote - by raising your hand to Article 19.Station 2. The Rules of Procedure shall be made a statement by the MP to each candidate individually. In accordance with Article 22(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, as vice-president of the National Assembly, was elected a candidate who received most of the votes of the MPs present. Where I remind you that, according to article 119. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, the MPs say first - who is for the proposal, which we already are, then who is against the proposal and ultimately who refrains from voting. Before joining the vote, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 204 MPs are (enough) in the hall and that there is a quorum to decide on. For the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will vote in the order that the candidates for vice-presidents are set out on the candidate list. First, I would like to put the motion to elect MP Emilija Krstic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. I thank you. I don't think we need a count. Is anyone against it? No, I don't. Is someone holding back? One. I find that the National Assembly for its vice president, along with one abstention, has chosen Emilia Krstic. Hold my cards. Secondly, I would like to put the motion to elect MP Dusan Petrovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. I thank you. Is anyone against it? No, I don't. Is anyone restrained? One. ) So, I find that, with one abstention, the Assembly has chosen Mr Dusan Petrovic as its vice president. Hold my cards. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the proposed candidates Emilija Krstic and Dusan Petrovic received most of the votes of the MPs present and were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice presidents of the National Assembly on your behalf and on my behalf, and I ask them to take their place. Just a little more patience, please. The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1164	Since we knew this situation would come to an end, we on the Administrative Committee have decided to propose to the vice presidents that always, according to the list they will make, sit in the hall where there are MPs, since there is no room. No one ever planned to be six vice presidents of the National Assembly, so I put it to the vote, because it requires huge costs to expand this table, it's a stylish furniture, a chair is very expensive, that a vice president always sits in the hall next to the MP's unit, and he doesn't think it represents any humiliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-04-0.u1165	Thank you. Please forward the decision of the Administrative Board to the Assembly, and then we'll vote on it. I ask Mr Petrovic to take his place. After considering all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I conclude the first session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
