ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6327	I welcome those who came from vacation and have already rested. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. No one later announced a preventee from attending the session. On the basis of Article 24(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs: Miroslav Jankovic, Vojkan Tomic and Boris Karadzic stepped out of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and will perform in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that, with a call for the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was called upon at the request of 187 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted a request for the holding of the ninth extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you have seen, for the Ninth Extraordinary Session, the following Agenda is set out: 1. A proposal for a recommendation on the use of the coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: the proposal for a Recommendation on the use of the coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which has submitted 187 MPs. You have received the draft agenda and the amendment submitted by MP Blagica Kostic on the proposal for a recommendation. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 minutes and MPs who belong to no parliamentary group, three Social Democratic Party MPs and three NDS MPs, five minutes each, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The service, forgive me, has just now provided me with information and information on the absence of MPs from the session and therefore I inform you that it will be absent from the session of the following MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Miroslav Martic, Dusan Petrovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and Zoran Tanasijević. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single search on the recommendation proposal. Does Proposer Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? However, Mr Milos Aligrudic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6328	Thank you, Mr. President. I deliberately did not take the floor as a representative of the promoter, for the simple reason that I would speak for my parliamentary group, and in order not to report twice for the word now, practically, I will speak in this capacity. So, since 1990, by abolishing the prefix "Socialist" in the then Constitution, which was brought into the single-party parliament that year, and by introducing a different definition of state in the constitution – the Republic of Serbia in a formal sense ceases to be an ideological state. The symbols of the state of the Republic of Serbia, coat of arms and flag, however, remained ideologically oriented, mimicking through certain symbols, primarily the presence of a red pentagram (five-point stars) state ideological orientation. This formal state ideological orientation of state symbols at the time was essentially overcome because the people did not accept it. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 5 determines how state symbols change and says -- that state symbols change in the same way that the Constitution changes. In practice, this implies that state symbols are changed in a way that declares their change to the people in a referendum, in which a change of symbols should be made to declare more than half of the voters enrolled and to adopt a change of state symbols by voting by the two-thirds majority of MPs in the National Assembly. In view of the ideological overcoming of the symbols, another of the earlier calls on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1992, July of that year, a recommendation was made on the use of the flag of the Republic of Serbia in the way the red pentagram was removed from that flag, or it was recommended that the flag be used without that ideological communist symbol. What was the meaning and essence of the recommendation that was then made? The essence and purpose was to make a commitment, first of all, to the authority that brought the recommendation, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which way it would be checked whether the recommendation would be accepted by citizens, institutions and by the state and its bodies. That kind of recommendation passed its test, testing and resulting in it becoming widely accepted, both by the people, both by state and political institutions, and by the authorities of this state. In the past 14 years, however, no government in Serbia has been able to bring and establish new symbols of the state of the Republic of Serbia in the Constitution. For the DSS at this time, it is a priority, certainly, to adopt a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we believe that this is very important for harmonising with the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. On the other hand, due to the approximation of Serbia's legal system to the generally accepted rules of international law, ratified international agreements in the field of protection of human and minority rights, i.e. by creating strong preconditions for harmonisation of the rules of the Member States of the state union and, ultimately, to make it easier to harmonise the legal system of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro with the legislation of the countries of the European Union. After all, it would be one of the basic preconditions for inclusion in the integration process. By adopting a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under the procedure for changing the constitution, which is provided for by the existing constitution, it would be resolved in a permanent manner and the problem of state symbols. At this point, however, it is obvious that the political will, much more than two-thirds of the national MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is to address the issue of using state symbols, as I mentioned from July 1992, temporarily, until a new constitution is adopted. On March 5th 2004, at a meeting of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, in the Chamber of Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and according to the idea of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, the method of change of these symbols was generally accepted – to be modeled through the recommendation in 1992. So came this proposal to submit a recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which was signed by 187 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is today ahead of us. The proposal includes the use of coat of arms from 16 June 1882, with two-headed white eagle, shield, cross, four glasses and the crown of Germany, as a symbol of statehood. The precise elements of the shape of the coat of arms were determined by heraldics. Proposers believe that using such a coat of arms has already been widely accepted. This recommendation sets out an incomplete recommendation on the use of the flag in July 1992 and is now detailed in this recommendation on its appearance and its basic forms, i.e. the national and national flag, as well as the standards of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly. The anthem God of Justice should not waste words, because the general knowledge of the fact that the largest number of citizens and institutions in this country, including political parties, is used in their promotion at the gatherings, by this solemn song. This proposal presents a version of the song's text by Jovan Djordjevic and the music of Davorin Janka, whose text, something changed, corresponds to the current republican arrangement of the state. The Democratic Party of Serbia considers the original solutions to these symbols and this song text to be far more appropriate, even a temporary solution that we would adopt at today's session. We believe that these, the truth insignificant, deviations from the original solutions are no better than the original solutions, which we would normally like to see and which we consider to be one period of the Serbian state, its modern history, which can be considered the most prosperous period. However, the signatories of the proposal took account, including MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, that when there is no doubt about the will to remove old ideological symbols, a compromise will be made, which will lead to the adoption of the proposal by consensus or at least a much larger majority than the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After all, we would like this proposal to be adopted unanimously, for the simple reason that we do not consider state symbols to be something that should become or stand as a source of dispute between any of us or among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for the compromise, as a way of solving the problem, I will say that, in some ways, it is a possible demonstration exercise for that compromise that we must achieve in the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because if we show in today's session that we are able to reach a satisfactory compromise, to the satisfaction of the vast majority of the MPs and, hopefully, the vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then it can be a monument or a sign of possible soon and faster adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This proposal was made by emergency procedure, and there were a lot of questions about why. One real, fundamental reason why it went to an emergency procedure is to take advantage of the moment of unquestionable will of the vast majority of the MPs, who at this moment cannot be missed, and to finally come to the opportunity for these ideological symbols, this coat of arms behind me, and above the president of the National Assembly in this room, to be replaced, therefore, that these ideological symbols that stand there are replaced by something that represents the tradition of this state and which is not essentially an ideological mark. For this reason, I call on the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this proposed recommendation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6329	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this Serbia, it's really hard to live, but I don't know if you could count on the fingers of one hand members of a people or citizens of another country in the world who feel more proud of us living in a country like this. We had an accident to enter a multi-party system without changing the characteristics of the state, from which the multi-party Serbia came. The constitution that was brought before the first multilateral elections and which is still in force today, some of you respect it, some of you do not respect it, we will respect it as long as it is valid, he predicted that Serbia has symbols, but that the symbols will be established by constitutional law, in the manner and by the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. At the time, the Constitution was thought to be easy to change. The Socialist Party of Serbia then had 194 MPs, however, problems began in the National Assembly's assembly, which had a two-thirds majority in favour of voting the electoral law and for a referendum on symbols, because the first attempt had failed with two proposals for the coat of arms and two proposals for an anthem. Indeed, Serbia was then divided between the songs of the God of Justice and March on the Drin, and between the coat of arms whose shape is now suggested and the coat of arms that was then proposed without the crown. It is always the authority's fault if something bad happens in Serbia or something good doesn't happen, but Serbian citizens should give themselves these markings. They should also give themselves the Constitution, so it could be said that Serbian citizens were not ready to accept the markings proposed at the time. At that time, we all got involved in politics, which was 1989-1990, and all the political parties, except for the then Communist Alliance, or the SPS, somehow spontaneously embraced the song of God of justice for their gatherings, and suggested that it would be an anthem if any of us participated in power. There's this deficient song, there's a flaw, there's more beautiful songs in Serbia. I think that the God of Justice in Serbia, of the people who are now the middle generation, no one heard until the multiparty system began and until it started broadcasting at public gatherings; Serbia also had "On Serbia", Serbia even had one competition for an anthem, I remember that the late Baronian Varteks made five proposals and performed the "Vojsta Serbie" with the greatest ferocity because he himself participated in writing a tune for the song. But it stayed somehow. And we in the party have suppressed, some of us, our personalafinities to song or coat of arms, in front of the general view that one day Serbia's anthem will be the god of justice. The next attempt to get the symbols was the attempt of MP Lunet. He was then an MP for the Serbian Renewal Movement. He suggested, it wasn't a form of recommendation, it was a law, as I recall, but it didn't come across support, it wasn't even on the agenda, as I recall. The next attempt was by the Serbian Radical Party, in March 2000, to change the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which entered into changes to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in a direct choice of the president of the Republic, and to change the anthem "Hey Slovenes" and replace it with the song "Ours". Unfortunately, that didn't work out either. The next attempt at radicals was in March, when we made a similar recommendation, but a truly modest recommendation, to the National Assembly. You didn't want to put that on the agenda by emergency procedure. Of course, there have been controversial cases, and you know that the Assembly would adopt a recommendation to throw the five-pointer off the flag, someone had to burn the flag with the five-pointer, someone had to cut the five-pointer out of the flag, and we were here in the Serbian Parliament coming into conflict with the parliamentary majority at the time, personally, this five-pointer behind the pay phone was a few times beautiful to some stickers, and there was always some MP who would come to take off the sticker to see the five-pointer. Now is the time to work seriously and Serbia is a serious state, I think there are issues that we must not conflict on and we must not pass, even if we suppress some of our desires, some of our ambitions – the Constitution, the state, the political party, marriage, it's all based on discounts. Because if you insist solely on your wishes, there will never be a solution. It is evident that Serbia must be marked, it is evident that yet the assembly majority is not ready to get in the right way to prepare, in writing a proposal for a new Serbian constitution. Perhaps this session today will turn you around, perhaps you will realize that something is not done by being deceived, played, pushed aside, and especially not by pushing 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. I guess now you realize that this must be done by consensus. If we reach a consensus in the National Assembly today, we will also reach it on a proposal for a new constitution. If Serbian citizens see that 250 of us here agree on a proposal for a new constitution, feel free to discuss the referendum. If they see that we weigh most of it so that something here will be voted, don't go to the referendum, they'll fail, and so will those who failed before him. Our proposal, I repeat, was indeed a recommendation, and this is already a constitutional solution and it was my objection. I put it out in public because the congregation service went beyond what we actually wanted. We wanted to adopt the form of coat of arms, adopt the song, recommend that it be used in Serbia, use it in the Assembly, and the finished thing. Now there are heraldists involved in science that I don't know, science that you don't know. I guess every one of them, there aren't many of them, but I guess each of them would write a different explanation for the suggestion of a coat of arms or an anthem. They've made us a complex solution, if this is acceptable, then it can be prescribed in the Constitution, for so long it's complete. Was that what we needed or not? I don't think it was necessary. I'll say what bothers me here, but we'll vote today, we haven't even written any form of amendment. No amendment can be written on this, and we didn't want to insist on some of our solutions. I guess it's enough for you to hear, and for the public to hear what the SRS resents, and what about this proposal praises. I don't know why the recommendation mentions a big coat of arms, a little coat of arms. The recommendation should stand in the coat of arms, and that is what you call a small coat of arms here, it should actually be our recommendation for the coat of arms of Serbia to be used. I don't know why the recommendation says national flag, national flag. They'll find a heraldic explanation, and somehow it separates the state from the people. Why don't a three-boy flag, which was already accepted by the recommendation in 1992, accepted by the people, why we're now putting this little coat of arms on that flag. Our church has a flag with extra markings on the flag and let that be enough. We have this one flag, which, behold, the people have been using for 12 years, accepted as state and national. I don't see any difference. I don't see why it would have to be the national, the state; or someone shouldn't point out the state, and someone only dares the people. It turns out that once we made a recommendation, we became a serious state. Let's leave it for writing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now I don't know how the idea of solving immediately and the status of what will stand with the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic. What's the president of the assembly? It's not a constitutional category. I don't care what he keeps on the table, he can keep a picture of the kids. President of the Republic, let's be that the President of the Republic has to hold the mark, but that again be this flag that we adopted as a folk. We're not petty, we're not in this perfectionist thing. It is so good to adopt this recommendation that this form, which is not fully acceptable to us at all, is not an obstacle to the adoption of the recommendation. It is much more important whether Serbian citizens accept this or not. And in order to accept, I think today we must make an additional effort to convince all MPs not to take this ideologically. I know who's gonna mind these suggestions. As we have a grudge, they have a socialist grudge, they have a SPO, and I know their grudges, I know their programs. That's not why we're breaking up today. Do you think I didn't know that for three or four resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija the government would do nothing afterwards. I knew it. But we were never against it. We've never been held back. We never left the O.R. when you suggested, you who have been in power these four years, any solution for Kosovo and Metohija. We really want to help Serbia in a few things we will never argue about. When you carry on with the reforms here, we're right behind you, because we think you're doing it very badly. When Kosovo and Metohija's fate is resolved, when we write state features, let's not argue, let's not argue, and let's not argue and let no one have the right to say after five years, let's say - let's say - the National Assembly, which has 250 MPs, in which there are Serbs and members of minorities. I don't think this is gonna make anyone feel bad, and it won't satisfy anyone completely, but it's acceptable. We'll feel different, like a rock when you get off your back. That was our position on the motion to change the national community's anthem. I'm sorry some political parties didn't understand that enough. You'll see when we get the anthem off your back how much easier it'll be for you to walk down the street. That's why the MPs of the SRS will vote for this item on the agenda, we've all come to the session. We want to help this to be voted on and we want to ask the other MPs who have a dilemma – to vote for this or not – to vote for this. No one will mind. I think they'd rather be resented if they didn't vote, because doctrinally representing a position that is no longer majority in the state and that will never be majority again it's a loss of popularity, and it's like someone consciously wants to reduce the results of their political party. If freedom is, if independence is, if the defence of the country is the attitude that one political party must never change, if the lawsuit against NATO is the attitude that no political party should change, this is not the attitude that you cannot change, you who are not entirely here. Serbian citizens have changed their attitude to the markings long ago. It is perfectly understandable in Serbia that the God of justice is an anthem. I'm not saying, if we agreed today to be Marsh on Drin, we would support you; if we had agreed today to be Ojpija, we would have supported you. Obviously, most of us agreed that the song would be - God of justice. The problem is the mention of the king. I don't mind. It would be a problem for me to mention the king, because we don't have one. I'd like you to stop pretending that we have a king, and especially that citizen who represents himself as a king, so he curses his mother with Serbian sizes. That the Lord of Justice will not mention the king, it is only a sign that we too are willing to change it, as the kings have changed it. Well, you couldn't imagine Alexander Karadjordjevic singing a song dedicated to Milan Obrenovic. Everything in life that can change, which is not constant, changes. Don't mind what the coat of arms has. If this trend continues, so we have even more MPs than today, while all of us depend on Serbia will never be a monarchy, ever. If someone who presents themselves as a monarch in the campaign wins, then that's what the citizens wanted. At this time, 85% of voters see Serbia as the Republic. The crown, nothing more beautiful than the Emperor's crown of Germany, as a symbol of statehood. So it is known that we have not only existed for 200 years, as one MP told me this morning. There's a lot more of us. If I've been able to resolve some dilemmas for you and if I can help you in public appearances, you who might be out of the joint action today, and I'm ready to do that. It's so important that we get the markings we're going to use, that some parts of the program need to be closed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6331	Thank you. The next representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Bojan Pajtic, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6332	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is unusually important for the debate on the proposed state symbols to flow into a more dignified atmosphere. I see that the debate will also run in a dignified atmosphere, because the only weapon that this assembly has at its disposal when it adopts this kind of act is the authority of the consensus, which can be reached among the parliamentary groups. All parliamentary groups, at least that's what we heard, will support this proposal, but unfortunately, Serbia will not get state symbols today. The recommendation, as a legal act, is not binding in any way. As a legal act, the recommendation does not know the sanctions for not implementing this legal act and the question is, if an institution, some authority, some local self-government, does not respect some of these symbols and fully this recommendation, whether this will relax political opportunities in Serbia or create additional tensions where this is not necessary, it really does not suit anyone at this time, especially the stability of the state. A recommendation for the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group is not the right way to regulate state symbols. It would be much better to respect the existing provision of Article 5 of the Republic Constitution, although we have a lot of dilemmas about whether this constitution should be changed and how it should be changed, in any case it should be very quickly. It defines, when we have already defined ourselves, that we will respect the way in which the Constitution was defined by the existing Constitution, that the coat of arms, flag and anthem are determined in the procedure envisaged for the change of the Constitution. This way, therefore, the two-thirds majority in parliament, the referendum, allows the state symbols that are brought in to have sufficient authority and that the state authorities and institutions have an obligation to such state symbols under certain circumstances of application. What do we have in front of us today? We have an act that will not oblige anyone, which has no sanctions for disrespecting this act, is not absolutely accurate in defining - where and when used and intonated by the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. In a vague way, it predicts different flags for the people and for the state, one defines as a national flag, the other as a national flag. There are various proposals for a large and small coat of arms, something that is not explained until the end and which will certainly not be clear to the citizens of Serbia. The DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group will vote for the proposed symbols because it is necessary to change the symbols that have been overcome. In particular, the coat of arms in this parliament, in the government and other state institutions, these symbols are unacceptable to us in political, social and historical terms. The DS has intonated the God of Justice's anthem at its gatherings since its founding, President Boris Tadic has asked for the inauguration to be intonated with the anthem God of Justice and around traditional symbols, around the traditional anthem, around the traditional coat of arms is the easiest to reach consensus among political parties. It is unusually important that such a consensus exists at this time, despite many remarks that we refer not only to the process of making recommendations, but also to the very act that proposes changing state symbols. Unfortunately, these state symbols will not be accepted as provided for by Article 5 of the Republic Constitution. Unfortunately, the work on the Republic Constitution, for our unknown reasons, has stopped, for months the Constitutional Subcommittee has not been in session. Far more opportunistic, far better, a better quality solution would be if, with a new republican constitution, we could find new state symbols in the referendum, if we could thus establish the application of these state symbols. I am afraid that through such a non-binding act, through such an act that has no sanction for not applying this act, we can reduce the authority of state symbols even after they are adopted in the manner and procedure provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As a parliamentary group, we have objections and at the very choice of coat of arms, we have objections to certain details, but today is not the time to insist on differences. Today is the time for all parliamentary groups to give up some of their objections, and all MP groups had objections to the proposed state symbols, an act which changed these state symbols. If we want to change the completely anachronous state symbols that we have at this point, first of all, that applies to the coat of arms, we have the flag, much does not change except for this state, the national one remains the same, and we do not have the anthem, so we will now get it, it is necessary that these symbols, if nothing else, are solidified, whether absolute or qualified by the majority, or, if possible, by declaring all MPs for this proposed act. In addition to all the reserves we express and according to the method of adoption, recommending state symbols, with all reserves according to whether so-called state symbols should be adopted through an act that is completely inappropriate for state symbols, which are a feature of a state and should have the same kind of authority as the country's highest legal act, the DS will vote in favour of achieving this consensus and in order to bring these symbols into line with historical and political opportunities in the country for the proposed recommendation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6333	Thank you. The president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, Mr. Goran Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe today is the most important day in this session of the Serbian Parliament. I would first of all like to thank the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Predrag Markovic, and all the MPs who have understood the importance of this issue. We left the question of the symbols of Serbia aside, believing that this is not so important, that there are many more pressing things in this country. We thought someone else needed to do it for us. Finally, these MPs today, sitting in this House and this President of Parliament, have realized that this and what an important issue it is for our country. Many countries are trying, trying to scratch the past, to find some continuity, to present their country to the greatest, the older, the more important, and create symbols that most often do not have a foothold in history and reality. Serbia doesn't have that problem. Serbia is a country with tradition and has symbols. Serbia is a state that went in the opposite direction, which gave up its symbols. Today we have a chance to return the symbols to Serbia. In short, I'm going to remind myself of some facts, simply to realize that we're not bringing anything today, we're not imposing anything, we're going to return it to Serbia, because it belongs to it. The flag of Serbia, a three-boy we all know, has been in use since 1837 in this country, with markings that were, unfortunately, during that period of some additions that represented Serbia's important position in relation to the Turkish empire at the time. Since 1878, however, the state of Serbia has a tricolor which I am sure we will confirm in parliament today. The coat of arms of Serbia, in this form in which we will return it today, dates back to 1882 and just sublimes everything that the state of Serbia represented from its roots to various dynasties to the creation of a common state in southern Slovenia. As far as the coat of arms is state, it also confirms that even the bloody shift does not lead to a change of coat of arms between the Obrenovic dynasty and Karadjordjevic. Anthem, many songs are beautiful, but one is an anthem. "God of Justice" is the only anthem Serbia has in its history. It's one of the oldest hymns in Europe. Countries that have no tradition, such old and significant symbols are in trouble, because they try to replace their tradition with fragments that are most often not in reality and in history. However, Serbia does not really have the problem and Serbia will certainly return to its citizens, its state, what it has always belonged to. As much as we respect tradition, so will the future be merciful to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6335	Thank you. There is a word from an authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia", MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although I am not inclined to declare any day in our parliamentaryism historic, it seems to me that on the day that Serbia will finally receive its symbols and its signs, it will be a historic day for Serbia, because this is how the people of Serbia are legitimateized to the world, thus finally reaffirming our country. Serbia had a regrettable destiny that, following its unification in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, for the sake of higher goals, whose end we would have paid for, gave up its statehood, also gave up its symbols. We haven't actually had our own anthem since 1918. We had a coat of arms and a flag. Of course, it belonged to that sad period of communism since 1945. A few words were made about the efforts of MPs and MPs to change existing symbols, even if these communist symbols were suspended. Mr. Nikolic skipped mentioning me. So after the five-octobaric changes, I came out at a constitutional session of parliament with a request that the mourning emblem, Djordz Andrejevic Kuna, also called the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, be removed from the position it stands in. There, it's been three and a half years and he's staying here. On February 12, 2001, I submitted a proposal for a decision on the suspension of communist symbols. And the motion for a decision, unfortunately, due to the inertness and failure of then-President of the Assembly, Mr Marsicanin, and the next president of the assembly, Mrs Micic, has never been put on the agenda. I want to commend the Serbian Radical Party's efforts, which had the understanding of the proposal and were ready to support it. So now they have finally matured the conditions for Serbia to return its signs. Someone has already said, "For old countries, old signs, new countries are new signs." Serbia is an old country and the history of Serbian statehood is long. For this reason, it is absolutely unnecessary to intervene on her symbols. They've already been found. Because of some historical opportunities or troubles, for a time, they've been estranged, and banned, and suspended, it doesn't give us the right to make that state, which was introduced by a revolutionary act, legalize. I would like to remind you of this: of the former Yugoslav republics, the existing coat of arms, or the coat of arms of the Socialist Republic, held only Macedonia. It is completely understandable, because Macedonia never had a state, so the coat of arms it will call on, except for the coat of arms that the communists have made for them. Croatia probably had a coat of arms at the time of King Tomislav or Zvonimir, I don't remember. I try not to remember the coat of arms of Croatia. I'm not a historian, not by profession, not by vocality. I suppose there are signs of some states. Let's not talk about Croatia at last. We are not in charge of Croatia, and we will not deal with it. We will deal only with the signs and symbols of our country. It would be good if this were not in the form of a recommendation, but in the form of a decision, even though the decision cannot engage a repressive apparatus, and the decision is in principle not binding. Maybe some form of decision would be more receptive, but okay. You are calling for a precedent that was made in 1992, when the Serbian opposition, the Serbian Renewal Movement in particular, was finally taken down by the five-pointers, because, you know, they were public gatherings, they were manifestations, which demanded that the disgraced pentagram be removed from Serbia's cheek. It's really done. I remind you, in 1992, elections to the Federal Assembly of the newly formed state of Yugoslavia were held in May. It was then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There were also local elections in Serbia, and a referendum on state symbols was called. They did figure out two suggestions for the coat of arms and two suggestions for the anthem. To remind you, Mr Nikolic was not in parliament at the time, so he forgot the second proposal for a coat of arms. It wasn't a white eagle without a crown, it was just a bare cross with four glasses. That sign was also foreseen by the Sretenjski Constitution, that is, the proposal for a state coat of arms. At the time, the Serbian opposition boycotted the elections. She also boycotted federal elections, boycotted local elections. After that, federal elections were repeated in half a year, and local elections were not. The sad fact is that the Socialist Party of Serbia then held a delegate system at the level of local self-government for two years, and multi-party elections have already been held at the Serbian state level. Because of the rigid demand in the referendum then the "God of Justice" anthem did not win, although it had a majority. The "March on the Drin" leap had a significant number of votes, but not even close to how much she got that anthem. But you know that the referendum provision envisioned that the anthem would be adopted, it took half the voters of the total number of voters to vote for it. So, for reasons the Serbian opposition boycotted the elections, the referendum failed. I remind myself that at that time, as a member of the Serbian Renewal Movement and as an MP in my local environment in Priboj, I called on voters to boycott local and federal elections, but to come to a referendum and support the anthem "God of Justice", i.e. to support "The White Two-headed Eagle with the Crown", as our country's coat of arms. Circumstances were what they were. Finally, now, I suppose, conditions have been obtained for Serbia to get its signs. Once again, the sorry emblem of Andrejevic Kuna goes back to history, and Serbia returns to its roots. Before the Serbian Renewal Movement and New Serbia, we submitted an amendment to retain the authentic, or original text of the anthem. That's why we have excuses, and historical, but also legal. Legally, only the author can intervene on the text. Of course, the author is now prevented from doing it, and no one else has the right to do it. It is true that the author changed the text, but it was because the song was dedicated to Prince Milan, and when the prince decided to become king, the intervention was completely natural. Later, the new dynasty adapted the existing text to its needs, so King Peter the Liberator and King Alexander the Uniter were mentioned. A small taste will remain if parliament adopts this amendment to the anthem. Of course, we would be happy if the text of the hymn would not be changed and would remain genuine, or authentic. If that doesn't happen, what do we do, we don't have a choice, we don't have an alternative. Serbia does not have its own anthem and must have its own anthem. I am pleased that the vast majority of MPs are ready to support the proposed solutions. I am fully convinced that if we were to reach a full consensus, the constitutional solutions concerning state symbols would be those which the national representatives had already supported. In any case, Serbia has reason to rejoice, as after 50 years it returns to its history, its roots, its old symbols. Once again, I would like to repeat that for the old countries, the old symbols, for the new countries, are new symbols. There is no need to intervene on the symbols of Serbian statehood, because no one can rewrite it, it will not be rewritten by history, it will not be recast by the MPs, we will preserve the state of Serbia and return its symbols. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6337	The word is by the chairman of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr. Ivica Dacic. From what I understand, Mr. Dacic is the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6338	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia should have its state symbols. If someone can accuse the former government of doing so, they can do so by 2000, and then the burden falls on those who exercised power during that period. Serbia should have its state symbols, because Serbia's history certainly does not start either from the Socialist Party of Serbia or the DOS or from any other party in Serbia. Serbia's history began a long time ago. I'm afraid, as we do today, that Serbia's history will soon end. Given all this, we are not deciding today on state symbols, we are deciding on a recommendation for using state symbols. Does this mean that the ruling coalition realizes that there will be no new Serbian constitution? You said, the plan was such that a new constitution was made and, of course, with the new constitution and decision on the state symbols of Serbia. Does this mean that there is no new constitution in Serbia, if we make a recommendation today?- I'm sorry. What is the reason for this urgency for us to sit in an emergency session on this subject? I'd like to remind you that there have been different suggestions on this matter before. There was also a proposal during a regular session to discuss it. That didn't come on the agenda. I also want to say that the recommendation removed the five-pointer from the Serbian flag. But then there was a consensus about it. What we're doing today seems to me, we're not going to do with consensus and we're not going to make a consensus. I think we must make a quick decision on Serbia's state symbols. This is not a decision to make. I'm not saying that this could violate the Constitution, because it makes recommendations, but the anthem, the coat of arms and the flag, it's known by which procedure is being adopted: with the adoption of a new constitution or referendum. Do not attach my exposure to questions related to the former state symbols of Serbia, such as the five-point one. It's certain that I lived shorter under that five-pointer than 90% of you here in the gym lived under it. As far as I'm concerned, the Socialist Party of Serbia has since, since 1990, and at its 1992 congress, officially changed its party symbol and officially advocated the change of the state symbol of Serbia, of course, by not wanting ideological symbols to be on the flag, or coat of arms, or to be in the anthem of the state. Today, however, we have some symbols that are certainly not symbols of statehood, but are symbols of a form of state order, such as the symbols of the monarchy. In any case, what has been common throughout Serbian history for all Serbs in history were: white two-headed eagles and a cross with glasses. In this regard, I would like to be very precise -- these are Byzantine imperial symbols that Serbian rulers have taken over, which have become the image and coat of arms of Serbian rulers. If we're talking about years, why did we take just one coat of arms and one anthem, which were state symbols just 36 years old? Why didn't we take the coat of arms of Emperor Dushan, for example, who has the same symbols we're talking about today? This would show that we are the heirs of Nemnjević, not only Obrenović or only Karadjordjevic. This isn't about ideology. This is about the state's markings, the state signs being a factor of unity, and when a man has a chance to perform with them somewhere, or to intonate anthem, or to stand by the flag, or to look at the coat of arms, to make it the highest feeling in a man. That's why these national features should be a factor of unity. Serbia has no coat of arms or an anthem that has been used for many years. There may be some coat of arms that have been used longer in Serbian history than this 1882 coat of arms. Serbia did not become a state when it became a kingdom, but Serbia became a state when it fought for its independence. If so, Serbia became a state when it became a empire. Therefore, as far as this is concerned, Stojan Novakovic merged Serbia's coat of arms with the coat of arms of the German Empire in 1882. Since 1919, as you know, we have had a new coat of arms, which contained Slovenian and Croatian symbols on the Serbian eagle. The solemn song is the next theme. The Serbs had many solemn songs. The Svetosavian Anthem is one of the oldest, and Dosite's song from 1804, which may be the best for us today, because of its initial verses: "Become Serbie, you've fallen asleep long ago! ". And today, "Serbie" needs to get up. Of course, the weakness of this Dossy song is that it's been without a tune for a long time, almost until the 1980s. When Milan Obrenovic decided to take power from the Ministry, he ordered from Jovan Djordjevic a piece, or theatre performance, with a historically patriotic content and a dynastic spirit. I can also say that in 1872 there was a performance called Mark's Sabre, composed by Slovene Davorin Jenko, who composed several years earlier and the Slovenian anthem "Forward, the flag of fame". When Serbia became a kingdom in 1882, on February 22nd, the "God of Justice" became an official anthem, but with a changed verse: instead of a "Serbian prince", there was now a "Serbian king". They also say that this song is actually a song of the Austrian anthem that Hayden composed for Emperor Francis Joseph and it begins: "God save, God save our emperor, our royal home... ". There is a Croatian version, as well as a Serbian version, but in the Serbian version, God is not one, not monotheistic, as it is in Christianity. In the Serbian version, we address the god of justice. In Christianity, there are no more gods, but there is only one, a creator. "God of Justice" is Roman mythology, Justicia, goddess of justice. So it's obvious what it's all about. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: obviously these things are not understood well on your part. ) After the May coup in 1903, Serbia did not have an official anthem, but in 1909 the verse also changed: "King Petra God feeds, you pray to the Serb family... ". In 1918, there was a collection of "God of justice", "Beautiful of ours", and "Go ahead, flags of glory". In 1919, an adjective "ours" was cast out from the song "God of Justice". Serbia also has another "Mars na Drin", performed by Stanislav Binski in 1914. In any case, the "God of Justice", as well as the coat of arms, had various versions in Serbian history. I said all of this just for the reason that I believe that double arches were made in the proposal of state symbols – from the song "God of Justice", monarchy lyrics were cast out, and the crown was not cast out from the coat of arms as a symbol of monarchy and porphyr, also a symbol of the monarchy. Of course, I understand there are monarchic parties in Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia cannot have monarchic features. We cannot vote for these symbols, we will not participate in the vote, but we will respect, of course, every state symbol and state sign of Serbia. The Socialists of Serbia will never whistle Serbia's anthem, will not tear up Serbia's flag and play with Serbia's coat of arms, as the patrician is above all parties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-17-0.u6339	I thank you, too. Before I conclude a single search, I'd like to ask the motionary's representative if he wants a final word. No, I don't. I thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a recommendation. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on amendments submitted on the proposal for a recommendation in general and on a proposal for a recommendation. I'd just like to introduce you to this thing, if you're getting acquainted with the amendments, and they're not being discussed. Since the National Assembly held a debate on the sole agenda of today's session, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I designate Tuesday, August 17th 2004, as the day for voting. We'll approach the vote immediately, 12:00 p.m., noon. They're waiting for time. ) You know that there are two amendments to this agenda item. One was submitted in due time, the amendment of MP Blagica Kostic. Meanwhile, an untimely, yet another amendment has arrived from MP Esad Djudjevic, and he cannot be considered. We're going to vote. Before we approach the vote, I'd like to make sure we have the necessary quorum to vote on. Technical errors in the voting system. I would ask MPs to press the appropriate key again on the MP's unit. By applying the electronic system, I find that 150 MPs are present in the O.R. and there is a quorum to decide. We move to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a recommendation, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Blagica Kostic tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the anthem's text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You cannot vote on the amendment. ) It is a single amendment and I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. (Bladica Kostic comes out for a pay phone and asks the president to read the text of his amendment, but he does not get the word. ) Please understand that when there is a single search, there can be no discussion of the amendments. We're moving on to further work. I am putting the amendments of MP Blagica Kostic to vote. For 21, against 79, a abstentioned one, did not vote 77, out of 178 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on a proposal for a recommendation in general. I put the motion for a recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flags and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. For 183 abstentions, they did not vote 3, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unanimously adopted a Recommendation on the use of coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] I congratulate all MPs, the National Assembly and I congratulate the citizens of Serbia. Since we've conducted our review and decision-making on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I conclude the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. At the same time, I remind the members of the Legislative Committee to go immediately to the Bureau's hall, where a session will be held, and at the same time a session of the Justice Committee. Thanks again and my congratulations.
