ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6438	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note 11th Extraordinary Session on 24 August 2004. (First day of work) (The session began at 3:30 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6439	We move to the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, called for 24 August 2004. I am opening a session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 185 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards from the Parliament's unit. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. The adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. They were delivered to you: the minutes of the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held in 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 July 2004, the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 14 July 2004, the minutes of the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 23 July 2004 and the minutes of the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2004, held on 17 August 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 1st, 5th, 6, 7, 8, 12th, 13, 14, 15th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd and 23rd July 2004. For 113, he did not vote 71, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 July 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the July 14th 2004 session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 76, out of 193 MPs, did not vote for 117. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the July 14th 2004 National Assembly session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am voting on the minutes of the July 23rd 2004 session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 106, it did not vote 90 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the July 23rd, 2004, session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 17 August 2004. For 118, he did not vote 81 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of its session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 17 August 2004. With the invitation of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was convened at the request of 104 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 11th extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. A motion for a resolution prohibiting the withdrawal or withdrawal of a lawsuit filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Member States' damages made during the 1999 bombing, which were filed by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Resolution on the ban on withdrawal or withdrawal from a lawsuit brought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the Member States of the NATO Pact for damages committed during the bombings of 1999. YEARS HERE YOU ARE, National MP Zarko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6440	Thank you. Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, and in accordance with Article 90(3). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that the time of debate on this item of the agenda be 10 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6441	Thank you. I am putting on the vote by MP Zarko Obradovic to extend the debate on this agenda to 10 o'clock. For 137, against 59, it did not vote 10 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted that the time to discuss this item of the agenda extends to 10 o'clock. At the same time, just a notice. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 38(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the first item of the agenda, authorised representative of the G17 Group of MPs plus to be MP Ksenija Milivojevic. Thank you. You received a motion for a resolution prohibiting the withdrawal or withdrawal of the suit filed by the SRJ to the International Court of Justice in The Hague against the NATO Member States of the damages made during the 1999 bombing, which were filed by 82 MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that a representative of the SPS parliamentary group has proposed a lengthy debate and is 10 hours away. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is 10 hours, I find that the time of debate, per MP group, is the following: the SRS parliamentary group – three hours 16 minutes 48 seconds; DSS – two hours; DS – one hour 28 minutes 48 seconds; G17 plus – one hour 14 minutes 24 seconds; SPO – NS – 52 minutes 48 seconds; the SPS 52 minutes 48 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs of the Social Democratic Party and three NDS MPs, five minutes each, based on Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. Does the proposing representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the multilateral assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has several times had the opportunity to resolve the most important state issues, with little to determine the fate of the country. It is the work of the National Assembly, and this is one of those opportunities. There's every one of us here on the exam that faces his own safety. This lawsuit separates us from the animal world. In the animal world, he can do what he wants, he can fall into another's nest, into a cave, into a pit, carry out force, and go unpunished. They say there is an animal emperor, but there is no court. In this world, in which civilized people live, the right to be stronger in no country in the world and no organization in the world applies. This lawsuit is the only thing our country can do now after the brutal aggression we have accused only 10 NATO countries. Several of them, of course, participated, but only 10 were given by planes that bombed our country. The fate of this lawsuit determines Serbia's fate in the future. Either we're going to make some kind of decision, which I'm not going to be, we're going to invite anyone who's stronger than us to do whatever he wants, or we're going to do to everyone, even if we're strong and at least how much money we give to one of us individually, to say that we're a sovereign, independent and free state, and that maybe we can't defend ourselves if someone attacks us, but that they can't break us, not as long as that attack lasts, and neither after that, because there's international justice and there's an international court that we're going to start a dispute. So, on April 29, 1999, we filed without saying we sued 10 NATO member states: the United States, Spain, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and the UK. We sued them for genocide. It was the only basis on which we could sue them, because the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice is optional, and the court is based only if states or agree to settle a dispute before the International Court of Justice, or they have made an advance commitment, as is the case with the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime of Genocides, where Article 9 provides for mandatory jurisdiction of the court. We sued both the United States and Spain. Not exactly Serbian President Boris Tadic and Serbia-Montenegro foreign minister said we did not sue America. We sued. In these two cases, since these two states have put a reserve on Article 9, Spain immediately, and the United States following the crimes committed in Nicaragua, the court dismissed claims against states which do not agree with Article 9 of the Convention. The United States recognised Article 9 until their policy became unfeelingly destructive towards the small. The crime in Nicaragua, in which they agreed and paid for the unknown amount of damage to Nicaragua, was a reason to step out of the Convention immediately, to challenge Article 9 and against them no more lawsuits on this basis. It is not against them, but it is against eight NATO member states, because the lawsuit exists, it has eight identical requirements and eventually all these requirements are united in one. The subject matter of the dispute are acts which have individually committed these eight countries by violating the international obligation to ban the use of force, prohibit intervention and interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, prohibiting violations of the sovereignty of other countries, the obligation to protect civil persons and objects during the war, the obligation to protect human environments, the obligation to carry out free navigation in international waters, rivers, obligations relating to respect for human rights and freedoms, the obligation to prohibit the use of prohibited weapons, and the obligation not to create the conditions of life that would cause the physical destruction of a national group. All these countries have come under all these obligations. You know how. Bombing has trampled the obligation to ban the use of force against another country, taking part in training, weapons, financing, equipment and support of terrorist groups, so-called. The KLA committed acts against the SRJ and violated the obligation to interfere with other countries' internal affairs. Taking part in the attack on civilian facilities has committed acts against the SRJ that have violated the obligation to protect civilians and civilian objects. Taking part in the destruction and damage of monasteries and monuments of culture, they committed acts that violated the obligation to ban any activities aimed at historical objects and places that represent the cultural and state heritage of the people. Taking part in the use of a cluster of bombs, they committed acts against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which violated the obligation to ban the use of banned weapons. Taking part in the bombing of refineries and chemical plants, they committed acts against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which violated the obligation not to harm the human environment. Taking part in the use of impoverished uranium, they have committed acts against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which have violated the obligation to ban the use of banned weapons and to ban the causes of long-term health and the environment. Taking part in killing civilians, destroying businesses, communication, health and cultural institutions have committed acts that have violated the obligation to respect the rights to life, the rights to work, the rights to information, the rights to health care and other fundamental human rights. Taking part in the destruction of bridges on international rivers, they committed acts that violated the obligation to respect freedom of navigation by international rivers. Taking part in all of the above activities, and in particular in causing enormous environmental damage using poored uranium, they have committed acts that have violated the obligation to ban the placing of national groups in living conditions which bring that group into the conditions of physical destruction in full or in part. The suit has also been extended for events in Kosovo and Metohija since KFOR's arrival, following NATO's arrival. Namely, the exorcising of 300,000 Serbs, banning and disabling returns, the destruction of nearly 200 churches, shows that NATO had genocide intentions and that our claim that NATO had equipped, trained and assisted Kosovo's Liberation Army in order to commit genocide against Serbs, which is also undermined in the lawsuit. The agent and the co-agent were professors. Ethinian and Prof. Čukalović, and members of the team Dr. Lopičić, Dr. Mitić, Dr. Djordjevic and Dr. Perazić, and foreigners Prof. Braunley, Professor. Sai, Professor Corten, Professor. Dewart. The team is also expanded with three members – from Russia is professor. Kolosov, from China Liu Ven Zong and India Chimney. It should be noted that foreigners worked for money, except for these three who worked absolutely free and expressed their willingness to work free and help our experts. After October 5, 2000, the team was disbanded. There was only Braunley left, and no one ever called the mentioned experts from Russia, China and India, who enjoy the world's reputation. A new team has been formed, headed by Tibor Varadaj, who lives and works in Hungary and the United States, at Soros University. Varadi is a professor of international private law and in a case he teaches there is not a single lesson about the International Court of Justice. The team also appointed Sorosev as a scholarshipist Vlad Djeric, a former assistant professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, who lived and worked in the United States until 5 October 2000, and was then appointed adviser to Goran Svilanovic for all issues. Tibor Varadi was also appointed chief legal adviser to the Federal Foreign Ministry, although he neither lives nor works with us, and with his ministry he maintained telephone ties, and from Atlanta he gave instructions and advised the minister of foreign affairs to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro by telephone, which in the history of the work of the foreign ministry of our country so far has not been a practice. The team immediately called for a delay in the case against NATO, and also withdrew the lawsuit against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia against Bosnia and Herzegovina, leaving us at large and hoping to unilaterally withdraw Bosnia and Herzegovina to do so, but representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina said they would not do so. At the latest hearing before the International Court of Justice, Tibor Varadi did not place an accent on the genocide of the Serb people in Cosmet after KFOR arrived, although the results of KFOR showed that the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia by NATO was aimed at genocide over the Serb people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is just a little fiction. In the meantime, you have abolished our Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You have formed for us Serbia and Montenegro. You chose the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro. There's not a single man in the Council of Ministers I trust. Of course, it's easy for you to laugh, most of you took part in the humiliation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia-Montenegro, I'm not laughing, and it won't be safe for you either because this is a conscience exam. You can always laugh until your conscience works. Why don't I trust you? Montenegrin representatives are representatives of the oligarchy, which says we do not have a common state. Representatives of Serbia -- one from a political party that says we should split up immediately, and the other is the source of this resolution and is Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic. His statement that we should drop the suit immediately caused our request to make such a resolution. The Serbian government deceives the National Assembly with its position on the resolution. Imagine the Serbian government, which says Serbia is not in charge of whether we will stay on demand to argue with eight NATO member states or not? To whom does the Serbian Government transfer? It says the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is in charge. Even if only Serbia-Montenegro were in charge, it is not true that the Assembly is in charge. The Republic of Serbia is here on several grounds. It is responsible for several basis from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and for several basis from the Constitutional Charter, as you wrote it. Article 33(1) The Constitutional Charter, the authority of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro -- "confirms and implements Serbia-Montenegro's policy, according to common policy and the interests of the Member States". We now want this assembly to determine the interest of the member state of the Republic of Serbia and to order the Council of Ministers to lead the policy in relation to the suit filed against NATO. We are asking only one thing of you here -- to plead, to give the order to all who represent Serbia in the Council of Ministers, in the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament, that they cannot accept the withdrawal of the suit, that they must not participate in the vote, in deciding on it. We're not looking for anything else. We're not asking you gentlemen to lead us to NATO and the Partnership for Peace to condemn the bombing. We are not asking you to say that it was genocide, and I would have reason to ask some of you to do so, openly, especially from members of the Serbian Renewal Movement, I would. You know a genius child was murdered in Barbarian. Her father was a member of the SPO and was president of the Barvarin municipality after 5 October 2000. Can you forget that? Will he be in the SPO after this? Or maybe you think we can forget about little Milica Rakic from Batajnica? Or that girl from the Kings, who had a bomb cut off her leg, and her mother brought her to enroll the first grade of elementary school, so when they told her that her leg was cut off, she said, "When will she grow new to me?" Maybe you can forget all that. Come out, ma'am, and put your finger in your mouth. That's what your NATO did. Maybe you can forget it, but the state can't forget it. An individual has the right to forgive, an individual has the right to forget, the state must not forget this. Don't spread the story that this is a statement on Slobodan Milosevic's politics. This is a statement on NATO policy. This is the alliance you'd like to enter, so tomorrow they'd invite you to go with those 30-year-old plane wrecks, and then we'd bomb a country, and then our pilot would kill someone's child, and bring them there after one of you who would say, you were right to kill that child. We don't want to sue you, and even if some fool sued you before we did, we're gonna drop that lawsuit. It's a big test. That's all you have to understand. Article 72 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides. So all that makes it a state, all that makes it free. He has to protect his interest. Imagine the last act of the DPS before breaking up the common state, giving up the lawsuit against NATO. Are we that stupid? Are we mature to have everyone play with us as they please? There is one member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you yourself used. I never thought it would be in use at all. However, DOS remembered that member of the constitution when he extradited Serbs to The Hague. It says – The SRJ constitution does not allow the extradition of citizens of Serbia to other countries or other institutions, but we have a Article 135. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that if any behaviour of the federal authorities – then the SRJ – or if a provision of the federal constitution threatens Serbia's interests, Serbia has the right to protect its interests. Since the federal constitution does not allow us to take the Serbs to The Hague, we will protect our interests, apply the provision of Article 135. The constitution and that the Serbs are being extradited to The Hague. Now here's that provision again. If we are threatened by any decision by the Council of Ministers, the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly cannot and will not. I'm only afraid of the Council of Ministers, because they're people who don't represent anyone, people from the air. The foreign minister sees his party held at 5 per cent. All those in Montenegro have 130,000 votes in the election and add these tables, which these have. Whether 230 thousand voters in this country will drop the NATO suit. That is why I call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to give today's decision only to pre-warning a treasonous act, a treasonous act. Let me remind you, economic experts, who are finely robbing this country, a hundred billion dollars is that request. If it were unfounded, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the world would laugh at it. America wouldn't invite you at night to drop the suit, representatives of NATO, the European Union, the European Commission, the Partnership for Peace, would not invite you to act out of the lawsuit. They'd leave themselves to the International Court, so what the court says. They can't go to that court. Little Nicaragua has succeeded in a dispute against America, and what about the earth from the heart of Europe, a land that is savagely, brutally bombed. Yes, NATO aggression continued in years after the aggression, other means, by your coming to power. We have a kind of NATO aggression today, otherwise we wouldn't be discussing this at all. This is a sign that we're a state and that we're a people. I want that sign to remain above Serbia forever, and it's up to you to decide. If you think you're going to pardon the masters, you've made a terrible mistake, and if you have wisdom, you know you're going to piss off the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6443	Replica, the word has a folk MP, Veroljub Stevanovic. After him, the word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6444	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're hearing some of the tones we've been listening to and we've been going through. I just can't believe that the thesis is being replaced without someone saying again that we didn't say something or we didn't react, so of course not the sharpest, but we really condemn an aggression that was amazing, it didn't happen again, it's horrible, and we can never forget it. But, gentlemen, we are in one specific moment. I'll tell you in the replica what I think. So, the invitation to face our own safety is, of course, standing, but when we face security, we remember where the bombs came from and why bombs, and where the refugee columns came from, and who didn't see those columns passing through Serbia's roads, who pointed it out. Let's not forget one more thing, when we face security, and we have to face security, this is what we tell citizens, and that's what we throw dust in their eyes. So let's not forget what happened in Rambuje. Let's not re-remember what was offered, and we have rejected such performances, and it has been offered, to remind myself, that a solution guaranteed by the Serb army at the border with Albania, the Serb army in the garrisons and ten thousand police officers, a double law in the judiciary, so that the Serb can demand a dispute with the Albanian to be tried before the court in Serbia and it is not accepted. Well, as it usually happens to us because of all this and these shows, there comes a second request that we didn't accept, bombs came, and then the same thing, hard and terrible, and now we're told that we should face security. Of course you should. I agree that this lawsuit, not exactly the one we had the chance to watch, and I'll talk about it later when I get the chance, but that lawsuit that's addressed to NATO decides on the fate and future of Serbia. It's a decision, of course. How wise we are, as we set ourselves, will depend on our future. Just one more sentence, because it's a replica, we're terribly humiliated. Let's just ask ourselves why, don't we see the causes of such and similar performances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6445	Thank you. As a representative of the promoter, the word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6446	I still hope you know who you've been sending these words to. Let me remind you, when there was a vote on the formation of a delegation to go to Rambuje, the Serbian Radical Party refused to participate. If I remind you that on the occasion of the conditions of Rambuje, Vuk Draskovic said, "This must not be accepted, it would be a capitulation." Let me remind you, the federal government, which NATO started the war against, had, as minister, Vuk Draskovic. To remind you one more thing, that Vuk Draskovic himself, is a witness to the NATO indictment in this assembly, for this speaker, when he was to decide on the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, Vuk Draskovic, although he was not an MP, but invited as president of the parliamentary party, spoke in this assembly and said, "Just so you know, if we don't accept the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, Serbia will be as flat as a table, completely leveled with the country." Who told Mr Draskovic that he would commit genocide against Serbia, that it was leveled as a table? It was an excuse to accept the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan for a few years, and then it was seen that there was no more excuse. What 10,000 cops under the Rambuje deal? Up to a thousand soldiers and officers under Resolution 1244 not to have anyone send SRJ and SCG there, and they'd give you 10,000. Why don't you say that one of the points was that NATO has the right to walk its units and troops across Serbia, to have priority wherever it appears, not to apply domestic law and that all NATO members enjoy immunity from prosecution in the SRJ? Now tell me, find me one man serious, smart, responsible, who would accept such conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6448	Of course I don't think that's what you said and how you threw it away. Of course I won't say that. But I left out just to say that it was necessary to accept NATO forces, which, along with our forces, would disarm the UK and bring peace to Kosovo. I know you're going to act like this, but you've been talking all along about the final proposal, which has come in principle -- I won't, and in principle -- I object, to get to that last one, which was not acceptable and that led us all the way here to get us. I'm just asking you to learn from all this. And in this address, just remind you of this: if someone thinks something should be done at one political point in one way, it brings it out publicly, it can be accepted, and it doesn't have to. So much noise about something that makes sense, and what we're going to try to explain, it doesn't make sense. So this resolution that you're proposing is also a fake. Why is it a fake? Why didn't you, when you wrote the resolution, tell this people what the lawsuit really was, literally? Why did we sue, who we sued, what are the consequences and what will happen in October, after the court's decision in The Hague? That's the future of Serbia, and that's what I'm talking about. Let us not divide ourselves into patriots and those who are not, for the patriot is a man who thinks of the future of his people, who does not take a single step that could endanger the future of the people. I remind you that we have taken such steps, that we have threatened the future of this people, that we have refugees, that we have displaced faces, that we have a broken economy, that we should absolutely condemn aggression, but I call you to reason. So, at this point in time, condemning aggression, we do the most reasonable thing to do with something called the world, which is called Europe. Finally a question in this part. We all stand for Europe. Someone does, and someone doesn't want a Partnership for Peace, but we all stand for Europe. If we want Europe, how do we get into this Europe, and in this lawsuit there are seven of Europe's strongest countries. The material damage is the fourth numbered. You know, if you had anything to do with the right, what it means is how they see the solution to the lawsuit and when there's material damage. It's that replacement thesis and it's that fake I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6449	Anyone else want a word? Mr Obradovic, MP, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6450	Dear fellow MPs, frankly, up until a few months ago, I thought that a topic like this could never be discussed today by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because I felt that there were topics in this country that were absolutely consensus of all political parties. I thought that the issue of NATO's aggression against the SRJ, the request, our country's lawsuit against aggressors, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, the issue of security, the issue of EU association, were topics that no one could question. But that's not the case. A statement by a state official, the foreign union minister of Serbia-Montenegro, Mr Vuk Draskovic, raises the consensus. I am fully convinced that the consensus will be established in the debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it would be even better to establish the consensus through a vote on the motion for a resolution. Voting for the motion for a resolution cancels the negative effects of the foreign minister's statement. The vote for the resolution also shows a responsible attitude towards the state, according to the victims of aggression, according to everything the aggressor has done. I must say, it is positive that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is against withdrawing the lawsuit. It's bad enough she didn't have the guts to suggest adopting this resolution. For formal-legal reasons, no need to be protected. The Serbian government was obliged to propose that the resolution be adopted. Did Mr. Vuk Draskovic have the authority to make such a statement? Look out, the foreign minister of a state is no ordinary civil servant. When he says something in the name of the state, it has its weight. I recall, he said the suit against the aggressor should be dropped unilaterally and unconditionally and, of course, gave one final personal political qualification, that it was Milosevic's lawsuits. I would like to remind you that in the Constitutional Charter of the SCG State Community, it is very decadent who is responsible for determining foreign policy and who is obliged to implement this established policy. Article 33 states that the Council of Ministers determines and implements Serbia-Montenegro's policy, according to common policy and the interests of the Member States. The 40th said the foreign minister is conducting and is responsible for implementing Serbia-Montenegro's foreign policy. This issue was not on the agenda or the SCG National Assembly. I must say that the SPS MPs, when Mr Draskovic was elected, asked to submit exposés on foreign policy. It's been said to be in a few days. Of course, it didn't come to this day. I mention this because neither the SCG National Assembly nor the Council of Ministers has debated or decided that anyone, nor the foreign minister, can speak on behalf of the state community and speak such difficult words. Mr. Draskovic is implementing the foreign policy of the state community. He has also done political and state damage to Serbia with these statements. Of course, he did political damage to the state community, but I mention Serbia. An attempt to withdraw this lawsuit unilaterally is bad for the state. If the foreign minister has any political morality, he would have to resign. If not, the state of Serbia is obliged to, within the framework of its powers and opportunities, replace the foreign minister and propose a new foreign minister. Serbia is obliged to do so because Serbia has suffered a lot in 78 days of bombing, which is why no single person should make such statements. Why do I say that? Two months ago, we heard a claim that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija did ethnic cleansing. Who, if they do not want their own, will need no one else but us to do harm to ourselves. At the time of NATO's aggression to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in the framework of Western-run propaganda, information appeared that mass graves existed at a stadium in Pristina, that there were mass graves throughout Kosovo and Metohija, that our armed forces were conducting ethnic cleansing. Today, four years later, no one in the West, no relevant political entity, and I'm not talking about someone who deals with history, researching what happened, dares not say anything like that. Why? Because the aggressors themselves, in the show of enthusiasm, because they successfully finished the job, as they did after October 5th, gave various interviews to BBC and other media, who are now ashamed and would like to be forgotten, but what you're going to do is, the tape is there, so you can see. Now someone needs us to convince that Serbia did not fight terrorists, and Holbrooke acknowledges that in 1998, in Geneva, he reached an agreement with the KLA to support their goals and fight for independent Albania. Now someone needs to convince us that Rambui was to be accepted, and we heard what Rambuje's contents were, which is true. Madlen Albright herself says Rambouille was a condition that could not be accepted because it was an opportunity for them to start a war against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's what Madeleine Albright says, and we here have people who claim it's different. Who's right about that? That would be interesting to hear. I'd say something about a humanitarian disaster, because it was a direct cause of aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On March 24, 1999, there was no refugee disaster on our premises. In addition to this claim, I would like to quote two different estimates of UNHCR. One, just before NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia in Albania, was about 17,000 Albanian refugees from Cosmeta. The second, that was 18,500 in Albania before 24 March 1999, in Macedonia, 16,000 refugees. But all that there were 35,000, which is the highest estimate, cannot be compared closely with the figure of about 780,000 refugees, as far as the UNHCR reportedly escaped before the onset of aggression. Refugees began mass leaving the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia only three days after the beginning of the aggression, on March 27th, logically, fleeing bombs and missiles that were supposed to protect them. See Henry Kissinger's book "Is America Need Foreign Policy", page 296 says Albanians were running from NATO bombs. Now someone needs to convince us that's not the case. In this intervention to allegedly prevent a humanitarian disaster, NATO, on the other hand, has caused a humanitarian disaster, in two basic ways. First, after the start of the bombing, a large part of Kosovo and Metohija, mostly Albanians and other ethnic communities, fled to neighbouring Albania, according to official data 439,000 and 246,000 in Macedonia. At the same time, it is forgotten, which no one mentions, according to the Red Cross, about 200,000 people, the moss of Serbs and Montenegrins, but also Albanians and others, fled to central Serbia and Montenegro. I have to remind certain colleagues but also the public of Serbia that savage bombings hit the whole of Yugoslavia and virtually no part of it is excluded. In 79 days of continuous bombing, several thousand civilians were killed or injured, the largest factories were destroyed, leaving tens of thousands of workers out of work, destroyed or severely damaged thousands of houses, and on several occasions electro-distribution plants were deliberately destroyed, causing the whole country to run out of electricity, water and bread for several days. According to Red Cross, about 200,000 citizens living in Serbia outside Kosovo and Metohija have left their homes and have found themselves in an internal settlement in Serbia's cities. All this suggests that the war, caused by NATO, created a real tragedy that affected not only the population of Cosmeta but all other people of Yugoslavia. NATO's forces, their bombing, along with military targets and densely populated residential towns and villages, hospitals, schools, factories, agricultural goods, communication, directly caused death, wounding, food shortages and water shortages, heavy destruction of infrastructure, destruction and pollution of nature. This, instead of an alleged humanitarian disaster, has been committed a true humanitarian disaster, which is incomparably greater than the one NATO has proposed to prevent. It can definitely be said that NATO has caused the most serious humanitarian crisis in Europe since World War II, by attack, aggression in Yugoslavia. There is no need for great wisdom, because the data absolutely confirms it. I was in a situation, with the understanding of the president of the National Assembly, to share with the MPs one material, which speaks of the damage identified by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an official state body. If you look at this document, you'll understand the condition of the disaster committed by the aggressor for the 78 days of the bombing. All the talk, all the politics fade before this data. If fellow MPs had time to look at this document, they would see what it says. (More MPs from the MPs' benches say at the same time, "We didn't get that material." ) This document is officially distributed to all MPs. It is an official report by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I know this material is multiplied. I was told that all MPs had received this material. These data are only related to damage, with no data related to the Yugoslav Army and no data related to Kosovo and Metohija. Direct material damage, as well as indirect material damage, as you can see from this data, is amazing. I'm not going to read you everything. I'd just like to remind you what kind of objects they're talking about. When it comes to traffic facilities, railways, stations, depots, railway bridges, overpasses, underpasses, tunnels and galleries have been destroyed. Road traffic destroyed: roads, road bridges, overpasses, underpasses, viaducts. Air traffic destroyed: airport runways, airport buildings and facilities. As far as the power grid is concerned, the following are destroyed: trafostations, 119 trafostations, 11 power plants, 51 business buildings and facilities at 277 locations, waterways and networks. Public infrastructure facilities destroyed radio-television facilities, installations, 14 transmitters, 45 repeaters. Five bowling alleys were hit and destroyed. In industry and mining 101 facilities, in the production of oil derivatives of two complexes and 28 objects, my colleague Sveta Krstic will talk about what happened in Novi Sad, what the aggressor bombed in Novi Sad and what the consequences of the bombing were. In construction, in agriculture, in tertiary activities. Which objects were religiously affected, cultural and historical monuments that were destroyed. Primary and secondary schools - 196 schools have been hit, it is a military goal; 81 secondary schools, 11 higher schools, 22 colleges, 17 study and student standard facilities, 149 preschools, about 55,000 housing units were damaged during 78 bombings. When it comes to people, the most precious one, this material contains where 944 people are reported to be killed, that information is far greater. 2,010 bodily integrity injuries have been reported. I'm talking about this for the simple reason why it's very taxing to count and see what's been going on these days. I mention this for a reason why there is one fundamental reason why he insists on withdrawing the suit. First of all, whose interest is it to withdraw the lawsuit? Logically, it's an interest of the defendants of the countries and NATO in general. If it wasn't for that, there wouldn't be pressure and blackmail if they retreated. Under its scope and intensity, these pressures are unprecedented in the history of interstate disputes before the International Court of Justice. This can only be explained that NATO is aware of its guilt, that it has committed aggression, violated the UN Charter, the basic principles of international public law, violated both Geneva and The Hague conventions, and many other sources of international public law, violated its own founding act, and the countries involved in the aggression also violated their own constitutions, as aggression decisions were made outside and most often against national parliaments. Hence, it is normal for NATO and their leaders, especially the leaders who played a key role in taking aggression against the SRJ, to be aware of the possible acceptance of our lawsuits and possible convictions by the International Court of Justice, to seek to prevent this from happening in advance. Of course, logically, the best way to do that is to withdraw the lawsuit against NATO countries. Interestingly, the coincidence is not a coincidence that this second phase of the trial to President Milosevic coincides with this reinforced media campaign and the motion to withdraw the suit. Apparently, the aggressors and leaders of the countries that have committed aggression are aware that at this stage they will be more serious than before putting on the defendant's bench, and the withdrawal of the suit would reduce such a danger. In the end, what are the consequences of giving up this lawsuit? I'll list a few. First, the release of NATO and aggressor countries from responsibility for all crimes committed during 78 days and nights of bombing. I counted a lot of things. Not only what they did to us, but what they did to help the U.K.A., they did everything to achieve their strategic goal. Second, abandoning NATO and the aggressor countries is free of obligations to compensate for war damage, which, according to the SRJ government's assessment, is over $100 billion. Third, formal acceptance of the thesis that NATO is not to blame for aggression, but for our country and our people. When you dropped the lawsuit, you admitted that their intervention was absolutely justified. Fourth, it legalises an illegally established UN tribunal and gives full legitimacy to the tribunal's charges, both against President Milosevic and other top state and military leaders of the Serb people for alleged war crimes. This is a way for the legitimate fight against terrorism in Kosovo and for the defence of the SRJ against aggression to be seen as a war crime, and for NATO's aggression to justify moral and humanitarian reasons. Fifthly, this means legalising secession in Kosovo and Metohija and revising Resolution 1244, which guarantees the territorial integrity of the SRJ, or Serbia. The sixth, it means strengthening the position of BiH and Croatia in their unfounded lawsuits against the SRJ, with the prospect of imposing huge obligations on today's and future generations in Serbia-Montenegro to compensate for war damage. For this reason, it is energetic to oppose attempts to withdraw claims against NATO countries for aggression and numerous crimes not only our vital national interest, so as to prosecute the aggressor and ensure fair compensation for war damage. This is also in the interest of rehabilitation and strengthening the basic principles of international relations, the Charter of the United Nations, international law and the construction of international order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6451	Thank you. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you are, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6452	We are ahead of us with a motion for a resolution on the ban on withdrawing the lawsuit filed by the SRJ against a number of NATO member states, and is doing what it says is damages. But I wouldn't go into the essence of the dispute, whether it's formal or not, as it says in the lawsuit. It is clear that the lawsuit was filed by the SRJ for, above all, illegal assault, aggression against our country and for the illegal use of force during the NATO bombing campaign, with all the consequences resulting. This motion for a resolution that has been submitted has its essence. For the DSS, this is a good opportunity, a good reason, it is not bad to discuss it, to hold a debate on this issue, because the central place, initiatives or motives of the applicant of this proposal, stood in connection with an initiative that is informal, but publicly spoken by one of the officials of this state, the foreign minister, which is also discussed in the explanation of the submitted resolution. It is an informal proposal, though publicly spoken, that this lawsuit could be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally as a good gesture, as an act of goodwill in international communication, and for reasons that the state of Serbia would thus make it easier to enter European integration and, in general, integration processes in the world. In the beginning, since the purpose of the debate for us is to determine under the possible act of withdrawing the lawsuit, I will state the position of the DSS relating to the act. So, very clearly and unequivocally, we will say that the DSS is against the unilateral and unconditional withdrawal of the lawsuit against the NATO member states, the eight to which the lawsuit applies, because this proposal or that kind of proposal, wherever it is heard publicly, informally, formally, in any way, cannot be a good diplomatic gesture by our country towards those who are in dispute with us and thus cannot contribute to improving our country's position. When I talk about it, I'll say there are two reasons at least. The first reason is moral. This is something my predecessors spoke of, therefore, about a truly savage act of aggression against our country, which was illegal, where the use of force was carried out without a UN Security Council decision, therefore, without any legal basis, in order to achieve certain political means and to win a certain political victory. And for this political victory in the regional sense, in terms of world policymaking, certain forces have decided to use inappropriate force, which, for its consequence, had heavy material destruction and human casualties on our territory. Therefore, from a moral point of view, every country that suffers such an act of aggression has the right to defend itself, and this defence through the use of military force has taken place during this aggression, as long as our country has been able to respond through the use of military force in order to defend it. On the other hand, the state is at its disposal and everything it can do in a legal sense to protect its position. An action brought by the SRJ then against these eight and 10, and after eight NATO member states, the only possible response to the aggression that has been made for us. As far as the moral side of that thing is concerned, she's in this part indisputable. None of us here will claim that this aggression was justified, that it was just for anything, that it only has for us what for every normal people in the world and for normal citizens in the world, who love freedom, would only have a sign of disgusting, ordinary and dirty aggression, with terrible consequences. What's the other side of that thing, and when we talk about our country's position today and its diplomatic capacities, it's a matter of our position in this dispute, it's a question of whether and in this sense the lawsuit should be withdrawn, regardless of certain changed international political opportunities, circumstances and the situation of our country on those occasions, and I'll tell you what I mean specifically. In addition to the lawsuit that the SRJ state, which is also the state of Serbia-Montenegro as a Successor of this dispute, because it is the same country, has against the NATO pact countries, there are two lawsuits, and that is the case of Croatia and BiH against our state over genocide, and where war damage is sought from our country in these disputes and these disputes are also being brought before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. What was the basis of our lawsuit? We're going to have to compare these lawsuits, for the simple reason that it would show that there is a certain rational interest, political and rational interest in us and our country that unconditionally and immediately, at least not at this point, cannot withdraw this lawsuit, as it was informally by officials of our country, one official, publicly proposed. Simply, things are like this: our suit requires that the court determines that the defendants of NATO Member States have violated a number of international obligations, the obligation to refrain from using force, the obligation of non-intervention in the domestic affairs of another country, and that they have carried out an attack on civilians and civilian objects, historical and cultural sites, and that they have used illicit funds during the war, such as cluster bombs. We all know how many people were killed by tape bombs in the state of Serbia, in which way and in which some of them died. They used missiles containing poor uranium, which is prohibited by international conventions. The attacks have caused long-term damage to human health and the environment, and have not prevented genocide and ethnic cleansing of Serbian and other non-Albanian peoples in Kosovo and Metohija. With that in mind, as a result, in determining the guilt of genocide, which is also wanted here, and whether there is a basis or not, that's another question, but there is another basis, and there is a criminal genocide based on which this lawsuit is filed. So there was a claim for damages. In the state of Croatia, namely in the case of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia filed a suit in 1999 before the International Court of Justice in The Hague against Serbia-Montenegro, whose request is basically the same as that of BiH, and BiH was filed in 1993, that is, during the war in BiH, and temporary measures were then sought, and which was rejected and, of course, BiH filed against Serbia, that is, the SRJ, or Serbia-Montenegro, a request to place responsibility for Serbia-Montenegro, or the SRJ to encourage and assist the crimes of genocide and, of course, to abandon the obligation to prevent and punish direct perpetrators of crime. Of course, because of the so-called. Genocide committed and genocide prevention. And for the genocide they've been seeking great compensation from our country, which is moving in the amount of, as far as I know, $50 billion. Therefore, Croatia's claim on the basis of a similar request has been put before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. As far as our lawsuit in this dispute is concerned, we would like to win the suit, we would like the International Court of Justice in The Hague to do what, according to international rules, should do in such a case, to accept and adopt the claim and to resolve it in favour of the state of Serbia-Montenegro. However, one issue is raised in each of these disputes, which is related to the litigation of parties in the dispute and the jurisdiction of the court. As for the litigation capacity of the parties, so-called. Locus standin iducio, the issue is reserved for the UN member states. So they automatically have a litigatory capacity in one dispute, and those states that accept the jurisdiction of the court, in accordance with the provisions of Security Council Resolution 9 of 1946, for the state of Serbia-Montenegro is characteristic that it has not issued an appropriate declaration of acceptance, it is undeniable. As far as jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the court is concerned, therefore, it is optional in nature, only states which agree in a certain form of an international contract, which have been mentioned for a short time, to consent to Article 36. The statutes of the court and agree to his jurisdiction. If these conditions are met and the party's jurisprudence is determined, so-called. Locus standi in idiodio, then can be conducted slow in the metrics and then a proper decision can be made. What did eight NATO members do before this International Court of Justice in The Hague? They disputed SRJ's litigation capacity, or the state of Serbia-Montenegro. They said we couldn't be prosecutors in the dispute, because at the moment the SRJ was not a member of the UN, and this second condition of the court's declaration of jurisdiction did not exist. Therefore, they point out this kind of procedural reason that the dispute against the eight NATO member states cannot be led. In particular, the two disputes before the same International Court of Justice in The Hague have the same objections in the preliminary course of the proceedings, which concern the issue of judicial jurisdiction. Of course, it is our country's right to point out the objections, to make a complaint and to attack when it thinks it protects interests and it is the right to defend itself in every possible procedural way. What's the connection between these disputes? It's very simple. If the lawsuits were dropped unconditionally and immediately before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, we would not know the answer to this very important procedural issue. Since this will be decided very quickly, it is impossible for the International Court of Justice in The Hague to take two different views in de facto the same circumstances. If it were to happen that our country failed with the dispute against eight NATO member states in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in this case, BiH would not be possible either, above all, to the state of Croatia against Serbia-Montenegro, and it is possible, because there is a possibility that the court would consider its jurisdiction once before. There is a chance, and that chance should not be missed, nor should BiH's suit against our country. In this procedural and legal sense, things are tied up, but not only in that sense, they are tied in another sense. One part of the SRJ lawsuit against eight NATO member states that is talking about genocide and is trying to impose responsibility for genocide on these countries has a certain material link, not only procedurally with these disputes, since the disputes of the state of Serbia and Croatia against our country have similar meanings, and an animus is necessary to determine guilt in these disputes, i.e. The will of one who performs certain acts to make these acts and commit genocide. Without willing action, no genocide. In that case, too, these two lawsuits can be tied up, as it is possible that this one link between our lawsuit against the eight NATO members to be the only one and perhaps the weakest in the entire chain of charges that stand in the face of this lawsuit. Therefore, legal-political reasons exist, foreign policy reasons exist, that at this point one such proposal cannot be made and is not possible for this country, with all respect for different opinions on the matter, that such a proposal or withdrawal of the action should be accepted. After all, the obligation of one who leads diplomacy in this country is to take diplomatic steps. The diplomatic steps are not just that, when done to someone, they are self-initiative, without consulting with several political entities, which are primarily political parties in Serbia that have their own legitimacy, which are chosen by the people, to represent citizens in Serbia, to represent citizens in the federal state, by being delegated by the Member States, therefore, without consulting those bodies, which can have far-reaching consequences. I would not be here, nor would my speech be so directed, calling someone a patriot, a traitor, accusing someone of deliberately questioning the position of this country in international disputes or diplomatic relations, but it could have happened accidentally, and could have happened on purpose, I will not enter into it, but the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia on this issue is very clear. So, we believe that this was not a good proposal and our representatives, our MPs, federal MPs, republican MPs and other officials, whether at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, whether they sit in any state body of the Republic of Serbia, will do nothing that would result in any act or gesture, which would have the unconditional and unilateral withdrawal of the lawsuit in this case. We think it's just not good. It is something related to the lawsuit, and if necessary and on several occasions, we will repeat that the position of a political party, which we consider to be its unquestionable legitimacy in the electoral body of the Republic of Serbia, would be clear. We heard two other political parties before me and we heard their views on this matter, which were also very clear. I think we will hear about this issue and the views of other representatives of the parliamentary groups and on this basis all citizens, who watch the assembly broadcast or who hear the report, will see what the mood of political parties in Serbia is like in relation to this particular issue, which is the subject of the debate at today's session and which was the occasion or the direct content of what the proposed resolution is about. I would say something, much shorter, and the very motion for a resolution, which is on the agenda today. As far as the proposed resolution is concerned as an act that the Assembly would be worth saying and confirming these definitions that I'm talking about today, that wouldn't be bad. Namely, it would be good if the Serbian Parliament could give a single vote for one act or, at least, I believe, that a vast majority of parliamentary groups will have a position like I do, that there is an act in the Serbian Parliament, which could even be voted on and which would simply, at the end of this debate, express these views in a written manner. The problem, however, is that the proposed act is, in our understanding, missing for two reasons. Therefore, the first reason would concern the very competence to deal with this matter in terms of international legal issues, and the second reason would concern not so much formal determination of jurisdiction between the federal state and the Republic of the Member State, as would be the issue of one another, which is also a moral issue, which concerns all the discussions on the need for the survival of the state community or its termination. The formal basis in this case, which is why the state of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should not be declaratively, resolutely or in some other way declares on the issue of one position, the informally stated position of a federal minister, would consist of, in accordance with Article 19, paragraph 2. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro prescribed that the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly lays down laws and other acts on the application of international law and conventions establishing obligations for Serbia-Montenegro's co-operation with international courts. So, if that's the case, then it's about participation in disputes before international courts, so one such act in article 19 is put into the exclusive jurisdiction of the state community. We have heard earlier, of course, of the opinion that there is another basis in the Republic Constitution and the same Constitutional Charter, which gives the possibility for the state of Serbia to deal with this issue, and above all thinks of a certain defence position of the Republic of Serbia in international relations, or is referring to the right to the protection of the Republic of Serbia under Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, given that the jurisdiction referred to in Article 19 is The Constitutional Charter is ultimately defined and refers to a certain type of matter and relationship, then it is impossible, given the principle of speciality that always applies in legal rules, these other principles, which are highlighted in other acts, means in the Constitutional Charter and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, put ahead of this. It's a formal side. If we ignore that formal side and say that this issue is extremely relative, there is one fundamental moral side to this matter. We know that a serious debate is under way, and this is a serious debate, and here we have launched a debate over an informal statement by a federal minister, also started a serious debate with informal statements by Milo Djukanovic, Misko Vukovic and others from Montenegro, a part of the Democratic Party of Socialists, which unfortunately dominates and makes up most of the Republic government of Montenegro, which are trying to launch discussions on some disunity between the Member States, on the non-compliance of the Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement and the destruction of the tissues of the state community. Do you agree to that or not? And here we have heard various political statements, but I am also today convinced that most political parties in Serbia stand at the view that there should be no moves that would go to meet and use these proposals, because our main obligation is to defend what was given as the Constitutional Charter and what was given as the Belgrade Agreement, because we currently do not have another in defence and protection of the interests of the state community. Someone can say that this is irrelevant to the whole matter, someone can relativize it, and for us it's a serious question. And when it comes to the adoption of a resolution, which says in the fourth position: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia finds that it is the only body that decides formally and materially to withdraw or drop the suit." That's why it's not good. It's not good even if there's no strictly formal reason. When we start to discuss whether we had to call on Article 19. Constitutional charters are either better at 39 or at Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about another kind of political tactics. I was just talking a little bit about the political tactics that apply to external reasons. We've talked about certain acts of certain officials of the federal state, and now we're talking about our acts, what our relationship to our entire common state is. So let's not do the acts, no matter how justified we seem in a material sense, which could contribute to each other, which could potentially happen in two, three or four months. For me, it is not disputed that the Democratic Party of Serbia, none of its officials will ever do anything to contribute in any way to withdrawing the lawsuit against eight NATO member states. We believe that the move at this time, as proposed, as unconditional, as unilateral and immediate, is not good and can do harm to the interests of the Serbian state, but we believe that the issue of voting or non-voting on a formal act that has been filed here, regardless of the length of this debate and how it will end, is not of scale, is not important to defend this issue. I consider and call on all those who think as we do what is necessary in the competent place, in the state community, in the Council of Ministers and in the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, not to pass this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6453	Thank you. Please, there is a proposalary representative, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6454	I'd just like to remove the misunderstandings that might remain after the predecessors have been exposed. As a proposing representative, it is not enough for me to swear by a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia that none of their members, that none of their representatives in the state bodies will vote or participate in the withdrawal vote in any way. You have no member of the Council of Ministers. You don't have any federal ministers. Who are you going to tell there at the Council of Ministers not to vote – Minister from Novi Pazar, Minister from the SPO, Minister from the DPS, Minister from G17 Plus? So I don't accept that argument, I don't admit it. The Council of Ministers, under Article 33th indent 1, determines and implements Serbia-Montenegro's policy. The foreign minister, under Article 40, is implementing and responsible for implementing Serbia-Montenegro's foreign policy. The Council of Ministers makes a decision, the minister implements it. Then you will say: none of us took part in this. The second thing, I do not accept the insinuation that the debate on this issue is an excuse for Montenegro's oligarchy which wants a disunity with us. Just because I'm convinced they want us to split up, that's why I want to protect Serbia so that someone, on her behalf, will drop the suit against eight NATO member states. Don't forget, some of you may not have been in the country when it was. Remember, Montenegro's leadership has urged members of the Yugoslav Army not to defend themselves from Montenegro's territory, so that Montenegro is not bombed, if the harsh rebukes were directed by the Yugoslav Army for defending the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from NATO aggression from our ships. It's the same leadership day and day. They collaborated with many of you while you were in opposition, working with you and now that you're in power, but they haven't changed their ideas or their views. How can I trust the President of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers when they say we're not in one state? To trust them to keep the lawsuit in effect? Afterwards, according to article 46, we are going to stand trial before the Court of Serbia-Montenegro, whether it can really decide on disputes between Serbia-Montenegro or Serbia-Montenegro, I do not know what to call that state anymore, in terms of jurisdiction. There is no common state, where to lead the dispute, who to condemn for what he did? I don't know why we're afraid, that we won't win that dispute or that jurisdiction won't be determined. I repeat, if it were all so pure for NATO, it would have been a long time ago. No, they're asking who's gonna take it from you. I see who they found. I'm just interested in the others they found, who aren't going public yet. It would be fair - on one side, on the other side. You, who are willing to drop the lawsuit, say it's patriotism. We're traitors, we don't let him drop the lawsuit, but let's work it out in the Serbian Parliament. Serbia is brutally destroyed. In Montenegro, a target is the place where pro-Serbian-oriented citizens live. That's all Montenegro's experienced since the bombing. In Serbia children with anomalies are born, in Serbia people die of cancer, in Serbia a permanent country is contaminated, isotopes develop that will kill us, there will be much to talk about. Don't pretend like we're in a common state and we have our own agents. We don't. There are no MPs in the Council of Ministers. The MPs have Montenegro and has NATO, but Serbia has no representatives in the Council of Ministers. Since there isn't, let's just say what needs to be done. I don't understand, if we're against retreating, to stop, to get the heads of Parliament to sit down, and we've done that before, to make up a text that's acceptable. It's got to say that no one can drop the charges. Why is that so hard for you? Don't say it at the pay phone – we're against withdrawing the lawsuit, but we found some formal shortcomings in the paper. Let's remove the formal shortcomings, but let this assembly make a decision, and then see this Serbian citizen, who represents us anywhere in the world, whether he can oppose the decision of the Serbian Parliament. If it comes to that treasonous act, I want to know who will suit us here. Someone's got to go to jail for that. It's a high treason committed by the foreign ministry, now it's all still to be completed. But we've had an accident since you and the baggers came to power, that we have foreign ministers who don't represent the state. They represent all the living, but not the state whose ministers are. So was Goran Svilanovic, and so is Vuk Draskovic. It is as if you chose who was worst for you to place him in the place of the Foreign Minister, as if only we could remove him from harming us. After that, when the damage is done, when Tibor Varadi runs the state in disputes, then you scratch your head. I can't just be on the basis of discussions by individual MPs that I know what's going to happen to this lawsuit. There must be a decision behind us. We'll vote for it. I repeat, our conscience is at stake here. Vote against you, but don't say you're against withdrawing the suit afterwards. Anything not prohibited is allowed. If we don't get the charges dropped, someone's gonna drop her. That's what I'm convinced of. Maybe that someone already has saved asylum, change of identity and the rest. But someone will withdraw it, unless we ban the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on any citizen of Serbia, who can participate, to withdraw the suit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6455	Replica, please. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6456	When we talk about this subject, it's much better to potential similarities than any difference. I only made the difference in that section of formalized paper, because I have to underline that difference, because there are certain shortcomings. You said we could make a deal. We tried something to make a deal, obviously we didn't have a certain ear to listen to each other. But after all, I'm not going back to that. The second question is, what does the paper we adopt bring here? Did we understand that well? First and foremost, this paper, which is a resolution, a declaration, a recommendation, whatever its name is, whatever it is called, whatever the MP's pause agreement is, in an objective sense, if we respect certain rules of conduct right, it will not be able to establish and in itself establish a question of criminal responsibility, because that requires the regulation of a certain form of criminal act, in the manner in which criminal acts are prescribed. On the other hand, what we're talking about is a different kind of responsibility. How to warn an act that is alleged? If it is thought that the vote of the resolution, the declaration, the recommendations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will automatically warn the act, an act in force against this country by anyone who is able to carry out such an act, and that is not true, neither will it occur. Article 135. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of defending the interests of the Republic of Serbia, assumes that one such act has already been implemented. There is no formal announcement of such an act here. But I agree that what was in public arouses interest and is the basis for this discussion in the Republic's parliament. So that was what I was talking about. Otherwise, as far as the fate of the lawsuit is concerned, if you thought of me, you probably didn't, because some others spoke before me, I'll confirm - I don't have any kind of skepticism regarding the fate of that lawsuit. The lawsuit, filed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia against eight NATO member states, is a well-founded lawsuit. It is a lawsuit that seems to have success in its good work, if the procedural issue is overcome, the preliminary issue of the litigation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the dispute. So there's a good chance of success. It's not a lawsuit, and it was well said, some Slobodan Milosevic or anyone, it's the lawsuit of this state, which is written so that it has a good legal basis. That, among other things, is another reason why such a lawsuit should not be dropped. I agree that there is a problem and that there is a question in front of all of us -- how, by what act, how to warn a gesture that can be done against the country's interest? Let's talk about it, let's talk about it more, so this isn't the last day we talk about it. There are different methods and ways in politics to get in the way. But I'm saying that asking the questions ultimately -- if you're for what I've done right now and I suggested in the form I've given it, then you're for this, and if you're not, then you're against this other one, no matter what you're oral about it. That's not quite correct. I've been able to listen to you and appreciate everything you've been saying, but I don't think that attitude is correct to the end either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6457	He has the word Goran Svilanovic, a national MP, deputy president of the parliamentary group. After that, the president of the SPO parliamentary group, Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak for the MP's group. I'd like to say a few things. At the very beginning, one of the topics that has been opened about the proposed resolution is whether this congregation is competent to discuss it or not. In that matter, I'd like to agree with the motionary. Legally, arguments can be sought, that it is claimed that we do not need to debate, if the Council of Ministers or the Assembly of the state union will be discussed. Politically and morally, it would be unforgivable to deny the right for the Republic of Serbia to decide on the essential issues involved. That's why I want to support you publicly, and we need to discuss it here. At other points, we may disagree, but you have the right to make a proposal to discuss it in the Serbian Parliament. The way Serbia-Montenegro was constructed as a state union gives this parliament the right to decide, not someone else. I don't think it's correct for any of the parties that make up the government to say that this parliament is not competent to discuss it. This House is in charge. I want to tell you a few things. There are a whole series of international acts, which have been ratified by the SCG as a state community. Montenegro has each time ratified these documents in its parliament, and only then agreed to its ministers to agree to this, and to their MPs in the SCG parliament to vote on it. It is precisely because, among some of the parties in the government, there is a clear view that Serbia-Montenegro should be separated, it would not be logical for these parties to make a similar proposal. If tomorrow with their political idea they succeed and there is separation, we do not have to re-adopt all these documents as Serbia. It took some sense. If someone has such a relationship with Serbia-Montenegro that they want to separate them, let them be aware of each document. For example, ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights. Why would Serbia ratify it again? Montenegro ratified it, so after Serbia-Montenegro, it also ratified it in parliament. Please, if you have a clear political idea of disunity, as you say, allow it, manifest it in action. Give authority to this parliament to discuss and decide every matter concerning Serbia. If not, if you don't want a disunity, then transfer responsibility to only one level, and that's the Council of Ministers and that's the SCG Parliament. I don't want to unify this country, but I respect the suffering of those people who were bombed, who were with me in uniforms, in trenches, during the NATO bombing, that they have the right to decide in Serbia's parliament. That's what we're talking about today. We're in charge of discussing this. I can legally accept any other argument. Politically, it would be unforgivable to avoid talking about it here. I also speak as someone who led this particular legal team in the past three and a half years, who represented the interests of both Serbia-Montenegro in the disputes launched by Bosnia and Herzegovina for genocide, Croatia for genocide and in the dispute that the previous SRJ government launched against several NATO member states. There were no arguments here as to whether or not he was well or mishandled by this procedure. There have been labels on a member of SAN, Mr. Professor Varadi, and completely incorrect, that he is not a resident of this country, as well as other members of this team. Just over the past few years, he was admitted to SANU because he belongs to a circle of top lawyers in this country. If we want to talk about the essence of things, whether these disputes are well-led or not, I'm available. I'm sure there are experts involved in the work. I'm sure the experts who run this business can do the same, which I also respect. We can talk about whether it was done correctly or not. But the lawsuit wasn't dropped. Contrary to all that some of the MPs have stated in public, this lawsuit has not been dropped. A lawsuit was dropped that we filed as a countersuit against Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons for that are the reasons that each of you knows. Did one of the tanks come from Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory on Serbia's territory? No, it's not. You know that. I'm asking you to be rational, and now that we're talking about this and the lawsuits I mentioned earlier. Rational - means that we measure the interest of the citizens of this country and the interest of this country when we make a decision on whether to even think about retreating, whether it's time to think about retreating or not. I cannot help but feel that we are talking today just because several important talks have not been made within the Serbian government. There is no other explanation that this resolution is in front of us today and that this debate is being held today. Let me remind you that in just a few previous months, we have followed the public controversy between the finance minister and the foreign minister on the financing of the ministry, the public controversy between the Minister of Capital Investment and the Minister of Finance on Mobtel, the public controversy between the Deputy Prime Minister and the fundamentally entire government on the future and the purpose of the community. Do MPs agree that perhaps we should ask the parties that make up the government to have a serious conversation? What we are talking about today was prepared as a small trial of Foreign Minister Draskovic for his statements. Is it possible that there should have been a discussion in the ruling coalition, discussion of arguments, and not of us spending time here, conflicting arguments, and that of parties outside the government, radicals and the Democratic Party? It's essentially a collision that lasts in a coalition that makes up the government. So what's said makes sense again. There are no representatives of the DSS in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, he should be aware that if responsibility for such a decision is transferred only to the Council of Ministers, he will easily say after someone from the DSS - we have nothing to do with it. The minister was irresponsible. The entire Council of Ministers was irresponsible. Is it possible for the prime minister's party to say this and essentially determine the government's work? We can estimate her results as better or worse. There's no interest in what's going on at the Council of Ministers. I don't think that's true. On the contrary, I believe they are very interested in how the Council of Ministers works and whether they will eventually decide whether to withdraw or not. I can't help feeling that there's now one attempt to get away and transfer responsibility to anyone else. That's why we need to discuss it here, so let the public know whether this motion for a resolution is accepted or not. I will say at the very beginning, we will vote against the proposed resolution, so MPs on the Democratic Party list. What was just said remained unsaid and unclear -- how other parties would vote. It would be fair to show himself to the promoter. When those who speak on behalf of the entire parliamentary group say it, it is their turn to say, that after that we might be able to lead the polemic argument on what's worth and what's not, and try to find some space in whether there's consent or not, so we'll vote. It would be my turn to know that at first. Now I'd like to say a few things about what stage this lawsuit is in and why I'm saying it's a reckless gesture to think today about withdrawing this lawsuit. At this point, all it decides is whether the Court is in charge or not. They have been behind us for three years, and in which we are having a dispute over whether or not this court is in charge, both in the Bosnian dispute and in our dispute against several NATO member states. We've launched a review, the Court has decided by review that he is incompetent when it comes to a Bosnian lawsuit. We have presented arguments that are not different, but identical to the arguments that NATO members today use in the dispute against us. Our thesis was: if you did not accept that we are members of the United Nations, if you did not accept that we are signatories of the Convention on Genocide, you cannot be in charge of this dispute that Bosnia has set against us. It's a legal debate. Of course, there's emotion in every dispute, there's reason for it, but the court has to judge on the grounds of law. That's what we're asking him to do. When the government makes a decision, it must be guided by interests, measured rationally, not followed by emotions. That's why we didn't drop this lawsuit. That's why I think it's wrong to talk today about withdrawing that lawsuit. If the Court of Justice once ruled on a Bosnian lawsuit that it is not competent and has rejected our arguments that we were not members of the United Nations, that we are not signatories to the Convention on Genocide and therefore cannot be competent, then this is the second chance of three lawsuits, which are the result of an unequal web of living circumstances, but of a historical and life-time period in which living circumstances were quite similar, so that all three lawsuits are made in a similar way, not with dramatic differences. Therefore, when several NATO member states defend themselves against this lawsuit, the Court says it is not in charge that the country that sues us is not a signator of the United Nations Convention on Genocide and is not a member of the United Nations, they practically quoted our defence argument as a Bosnian lawsuit. Let's leave the court to decide on such arguments. Why are we taking a step forward today, in an announcement? Why are we talking about dropping the lawsuit today? Let the court decide whether he's in charge or not. It's only when the Court declares that we have a clean legal situation, where we can think about whether there's a dispute or no dispute. If the dispute has been put out because the Court is not in charge, at the same time we have the argument again to raise the issue of jurisdiction in the dispute brought against us by Bosnia. It's a legal situation. That has already been said in the presentation of representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and I fully agree with the team. Legal argument, which is well known to anyone who wanted to be interested and to find out the legal side of this thing, is exactly what it is. So much today's debate about whether or not we're going to withdraw the lawsuit is pointless. That's the situation we're in. It is up to the Court to wait for a decision on whether or not he is in charge and then to discuss it. This is the situation we came up with after three and a half years of very responsible work on these lawsuits, and in the case of a Bosnian lawsuit, and in the case of a Croatian lawsuit and the case against several NATO member states. Why did the foreign minister even mention this? It should be said openly, and from what I've heard, it hasn't been mentioned so far. The reason is that this lawsuit appears to be an obstacle to international relations. We need to see specifically what international relations it is. In particular, this lawsuit appears as an obstacle only when we talk about entering the country into the Partnership for Peace programme. In principle, and not specifically, it can, to some extent, interfere with the improvement of relations with those countries that are being sued, so they feel dissatisfied because they are being sued and because they have a huge impact in the international public, especially in the European Union, it can have an impact on our country's position. I quote, these are likely reasons why the foreign minister ever mentioned the possibility of withdrawing the lawsuit or not, an option that had not been mentioned before: specifically because of the entry into the Partnership for Peace programme and in principle to improve relations with these countries. Wouldn't it be logical, however, to wait for the Court's ruling on whether he was in charge, so that, after the court's decision on jurisdiction, we could discuss it? Personally, as MPs in this assembly well know, I insist on entering our country's Partnership for Peace programme. That's where I disagree with one of the MPs. We have one topic that we disagree on. I argue that it is essential for our country that we become part of the Partnership for Peace programme as soon as possible and that, with their help and support, we continue to reform the entire security sector. For this reason, I am seriously considering the situation in which this lawsuit is being held as an obstacle to our country's entry into the Partnership for Peace programme. That's what I care about. When I look back, the time I've spent as a minister, I'm the most dissatisfied with the fact that we haven't been able to get into this program. I don't agree with the good part of these MPs. That's what I care about. However, you well know, as I know it myself, at this point is not the only obstacle to our country's entry into the Partnership for Peace Programme, a lawsuit against several NATO member states. (Several MPs from MP clubs at the same time say, "It's co-operation with The Hague." Just like you said, it's co-operation with the court in The Hague. That's the main obstacle. So there's no reason to talk about the way we're talking about this subject right now, about this lawsuit, when we didn't get to it at all. Removing this lawsuit today would not take a step forward when it comes to our country's entry into the Partnership for Peace programme. There's a much bigger problem ahead of us. In such a situation, I must admit that the controversy that we are leading today must be led within the government, so only when the Government has a unique position on it should it address the MPs, not to do what we do today - we spend time in the exchange of arguments between the two parliamentary groups, none of whom participate in the work of this government, rather than waiting for the government to agree and come out with our position, and only then do we say what we think about the position of the ruling parties. This is what led to this debate - the lack of agreement in some of the key issues. I want you to know that we will vote against this resolution. I think it would be fair for all the other parliamentary groups to say they will vote on this proposal, then give their arguments, and possibly then open a debate on whether it is the country's citizens' interest or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6459	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6460	This turned out to be an opportunity to detest the government of the Republic of Serbia, to attack the position from opposition benches, and to hear some of the tones that are at the very least amazing again in opening such a question and discussing it. I really couldn't understand Mr. Svilanovic's point of view. We gave very clear reasons why we were against withdrawing the lawsuit, and in that part, we agreed. What is it that we disagreed on? Mr. Svilanovic received a sudden inflow and a terrible attack of patriotism after this pay phone, he cried out, cried out, that blood in the veins was following us, trying to convince us that we, my God, are in terrible error and that we are faking when we talk about the issue of jurisdiction and indifference of the state authorities, and that this assembly has the right and obligation to discuss such issues. I'm not denying it. At no time have we denied the right of the Serbian Parliament to deal with such a matter. I mentioned it and I made it clear, and if you were sitting on your ears and you didn't hear it, that's something else, in terms of what's the point of the debate, and that's the question of withdrawing the lawsuit. Also, I was also talking about the act proposed and which, according to the promoter, should be the way in which this problem is solved. I made it very clear, I said that this problem is not being solved in this way. Thus, I also announced the way the Democratic Party of Serbia voted. You didn't say why you wouldn't vote for this resolution. If you didn't have those reasons and those arguments that you have made here, as I understand it, it means that you will not vote for this resolution, as an opposition MP, because, in your opinion, in what you see it, the members who make up the ruling coalition between themselves in the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not agree, so before today, they had a public and decadent view on the matter. Great, if that's the case, then tell us or at least explain to us what it's about. Tell me if your performance here was in two parts of two goals. The first to prove that you are ultrapatriot, how you are, in which I agree with you, against withdrawing this lawsuit, because it brings nothing good in any segment, nor in any form the integration of our country into certain flows, nor for the Partnership for Peace, nor in anything else, in order to ultimately state that you are against the resolution. Excuse me, the resolution was filed by the opposition SRS parliamentary group. She had the right to do so, she had the right to give that text to the resolution. You are here now interpreting and politically explaining to those who are watching this transmission, which is why the members of the SRS did it, why they did it. I guess the president of the SRS parliamentary group will be best able to explain why he submitted some proposal and defend it in the best possible way. We didn't want to discuss it this way, but you obviously impose a ton on this debate that is not good and that damages the interests of this country, just as other moves can harm. And the propo questions of the Assembly and the Parliament's right to decide on a matter, Mr Svilanovic, "counter Memorial", or the countersuit for the Bosnian suit, which was filed in 1997, and on 23 April 2001, a motion was initiated for a review of the court's decision on jurisdiction in 1996. With regard to the litigation of the participants in the dispute, you withdrew the counter memorial on 9 April 2001, i.e. Pulled the countersuit. The reasons are clear, that they would remain consistent with their claims in the dispute. If you did that then and if the public was talking about it, we've been discussing it for a month, why didn't you ask someone? You've been avoiding the answer to that question for a month, you could only hear yourself on certain TV shows... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... It was a public appearance, but when we talk about public appearances, it was worth coming here, to the SRJ Assembly, it was worth it then that the parliamentary group that you belonged to also allowed and allowed a session at which the issue would be clarified. That caused some confusion back then. I know the legal argument, but the citizens of Serbia don't have to know that legal argument. If you're so correct and so honest and consistent in all this, then you should have this consistency in exhibiting for a moment, which has caused my right to replication. (Goran Svilanovic answering for word.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6461	You have no right to a replica. The replica on the replica can't, only according to the Rules of Procedure. The president of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Stevanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6462	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there have been too many words here today. I don't think we really needed that. Same tones, no reason, in an atmosphere we don't need, maybe because it's a pre-election campaign. But I really can't accept that anyone of my name or the name of a member of the SPO, anyone, mentions it in an ugly context. And let me remind you, when we experienced those horrors, we were all in the function we had to be in. That's why these words, these thoughts, fall hard on me. Back then, at the time, I was the commander of the civil protection headquarters in Kragujevac, always where the bombs were falling, just like you. Because that's how it was, he got a thank-you note from the Yugoslav Army, which I'm very proud of. Let's not, please, hard words. That's the facts, and that's why I'm asking you to do what we're saying today, by looking at this from the other side. So, what do we want? We're where we are, attacked by aggressors, hard to get past, hard to survive, and now we're where we are. We're thinking about what's next. So much is our sin, if it's a sin, and it's not, which we have one proposal, or we have it, loudly spoken, which we think is wise to do at this point. Who's gonna be right? Without bile, I say we'll soon find out, believed in October, and then we'll see what the patriots say. I said it a moment ago, and I repeat, what you've made as a proposal is not a good suggestion. You didn't say on purpose or on purpose what the lawsuit was, and that's what I'm going to say in the shortest possible terms for the public. So we sued NATO countries for genocide for aggression and illegal use of force, for violation of humanitarian and war rights and for material damage. That's what it says. That's why I said it was a fake, because you didn't mention genocide, because you said NATO countries, and it's 19, and there's eight in the lawsuit, where there's no U.S. and Spain, and I guess we know that 90% of the bombs fell by the U.S. So, just for the sake of truth and for the sake of what is wanted and what is our intention or someone who proposes a solution, and you put it on a cross. The second thing you have to say is that it's a fake is, who are these countries? Seven of them are European countries, the eighth is Canada. It's an immediate controversy. Is it possible that we want to enter Europe, and we all want, where France are, and Great Britain, and Germany, and Belgium, and the Netherlands, and Portugal and Italy, and that these are countries whose people are genocide? What is genocide, my lords? It's an attempt to biologically destroy a nation, an ethnic group. And to remind you, we had three attempts -- in World War I against the Armenians, in the Second of Jews and Serbs in the NDH. That's the facts. So we're just rationalizing and asking -- what's going to happen in The Hague Court. What will be the Court's decision? And that's our sin. We think that these countries that have been sued in this way – I'm not talking about material damage, I'm not talking about other things, because if only genocide is determined and therefore accused, only then are we talking about other things – will these countries be charged with genocide? We don't think so. If he won't, what's rational at this point? That's what we're thinking. We think we should withdraw the lawsuit precisely because the verdict will be like this. We talk as responsible politicians, who should at some point do what is expected of them and who think about the consequences. What happens if we do that? We're thinking loudly. We expect these countries to say at such a time - they gave up those policies, it is a new policy that suits both Europe and the world. We will then be close to entering Europe, then only, that's our thinking again, gentlemen, and that's our sin that doesn't have to be the same as yours, then only because we've shown that we are who we are, rationally thinking about saying -- Croatian and Bosnian lawsuits against us will go the same way as ours, will they ask them to withdraw. Only then, in our opinion, will we be near that fund that is created to cover material and immaterial damage to what we have actually experienced, and what is truly a horror. Fourth, which you may not have figured out correctly or deliberately failed to understand. So, as it comes to the decision to withdraw the lawsuit. There are no, gentlemen, consensus, you're saying there are no others in the Council of Ministers, or there are, because in the parties of the ruling coalition there is no opinion and there is no withdrawal of the suit. There wasn't a thought based on that either, just like you said. Is there something ugly about this? What is it that can make us a traitor? Opinion, thinking, suggestion, but that's not how we see it. What's going to happen is the question is, if the verdict is what it's supposed to be. We won't be at that opportunity where we'll be at that time, that is, withdrawing the lawsuit. So we're probably going to be in a very difficult state like this, and we're just asking the question, do we have a right to talk about this like this? I just said it, and I don't want to say it again, what was in Rambuje, not in the end, but in the end. What we could achieve and what we didn't do and what happened in the end. If you're asking me, I'm going to say, I guess it was better that we accepted the worst, the worst, because we were stubborn, hardworking than what we experienced under the bombs. Everyone will say, of course it's better. There is, gentlemen, something called political responsibility, and I repeat, it's close to October, it's close to decisions. We are prepared, precisely because you've raised this much dust and you're throwing it in the eyes of the people in this way, to stand before the public afterwards and ask if at least once someone will be responsible for a bad political assessment. If that's us, we should answer, of course, but I'm asking you what happens if your political assessment was bad. I'm adding, it won't be the first time, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6463	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6464	I have to react to the civil protection commander's exposure, and I declare that for at least one act I appreciate and respect, which is when in the SPO rooms in Kragujevac he collected volunteers to send them to the front. That's why I appreciate you, Mr. Stevanovic, you might like to forget about it, which is why I highly appreciate you. Don't talk about the dust we've raised, because there's no dilemma about what's older, chicken or egg at all. Your president caused our reaction. We would never have asked for a resolution like this if a foreign minister hadn't gone public with a proposal to withdraw the lawsuit. Because, I'm saying, the minister can't go public beyond the government's views, what's wrong with you people. The minister represents the government. He can't represent his political views when he's a member of the government. What we know now is who he was agreeing with about that statement, with Milo Djukanovic, with some from NATO. I see he's not with Kostunica. Until now, I suspected he was. For you, Kostunica caused all of this when he applied for us to be recognized as a new state. That's all true. We were members of the UN at the time when the lawsuits were filed, it was just an empty chair, but not to explain it to you. However, in that statement, which says that we in the Partnership for Peace with the suit against NATO members, I ask you, how in the Partnership for Peace will we be bombed like this by NATO. You don't ask yourself that question. That's a more moral question. We can forgive them for killing us, and now they can't forgive us for suing them for killing us. Next, what if they don't admit it, if the court doesn't find that genocide has been committed, and the foundation of a large one does. That's only the tenth point of the lawsuit. Nine before that exist. The tenth is that they wanted to destroy us, part of the nation wanted to disappear. What if they don't? In part, a lawsuit is accepted, and what was established will be accepted by the court, which it finds not to be established will not be accepted. It's not worth it to draw a story here about whether one opposition political party can have a stand. He's got it and he's got it. Did we have the right to this session? We have, we've collected enough signatures. You could've stopped that debate, you couldn't have come to the session, it couldn't have been a session. You would be asked by the citizens of Serbia, why don't you say so as MPs. It's important that we make a statement here. All of us who've been worried about what's gonna happen in those 78 days. Right away, there are no innocent victims and those other victims on our side. In Serbia-Montenegro, then the SRS, anyone who is damaged by NATO bombing is an innocent victim, and our soldiers were innocent victims. I have two sons. One could've been killed in the house, one could've been in the army. So what can I say, they had the right to kill the one in the army. What was he causing them to do? Just one more thing, if Croatia and BiH and the SFRY were at war, what does that have to do with NATO? Why are you putting all the charges together here? What difference does BiH's case have against the SFRY, or the SRJ, and there is no basis, because Dobrica Cosic, as soon as a new state was formed in June 1992, said: none of our soldiers are on BiH territory. What is the connection between our suit against NATO and the BiH lawsuit against us. You say we're guilty. What made you think we were guilty of BiH's lawsuit. You say it's not NATO's fault, but you know the verdict, where did you get that idea? How do you know all this negatively by Serbia? For the BiH lawsuit, we will be convicted, for the NATO lawsuit, NATO will be released. By convincing us not to touch this, it's impossible. If I've heard from your party president that the lawsuit should be dropped, today I've heard from you that you won't drop the suit. Is this about the same party? Who do I believe in? If this is an opinion of the SPO, let's see what we do with Vuk Draskovic, let's give him another party to ruin, because then you deserve a much better president than you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6465	Right on line, MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6466	I don't think you really understand me or you don't want to understand me on purpose. I didn't expect you to understand me, because we're probably speaking different languages. Don't change or replace the thesis, leave what's called aggression, everything we've survived. I repeat, we're talking about this moment and thinking about what's best at this point, after all the trouble we've been in, let's do it. Why you keep bringing us back to the story of patriots and traitors, and we were all under bombs, no matter how you talk about what someone was in civil protection or not. It's a story that's heavy, ugly, don't give God a repeat. Let's see what now? I repeat, we think that a decision should be made in the right way at this time that corresponds to us, Serbia's future and what can be obtained by that decision. We won't say anything to anyone for a moment if he doesn't think like we do. You're not thinking the same thing. You think we're gonna get that lawsuit to stay. We'll see what happens in October. We're afraid it doesn't cost us. That's exactly what we're saying. You, since you have no arguments or maybe you're not making them right, you're bringing the story back to us, to aggression, to what it was. We will not say what you would probably say – why bombs? Because we didn't know we were running politics and we didn't realize what was best at that point. I'm not justifying anyone. So the question is simple – politics is a matter of possibility. We didn't do what was possible to make it to the bomb. We don't justify them, of course, these are terrible things, difficult things, they didn't happen again, but we're talking at this point about possibilities and we're asking you to understand us, and you're leading all the stories to politics, to error. I repeat what may be the most important - the fourth thing you have deliberately forgotten, if there is no consensus, there is no decision, but we are afraid it will cost us. It's just our sin to think like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6467	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6468	Here, since I experienced hearing in the Serbian Parliament that we were bombed because we couldn't run politics, I could read you the Beta service from the time of the bombing. Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Draskovic voiced confidence Saturday that soon at the military academy, NATO's current aggression against the SRJ "will be produced as a sad example of trampling not only international rights, but also the foundation of military honor". In an interview with US "Washington Post", Draskovic asked: "Who will punish NATO for excessive use of force and collective retribution against one nation," the federal ministry said in a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6469	The word came from MP Ksenija Milivojevic, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6470	I would like, no matter what five minutes we have left until the work is done today, I think it is very important that I express my party's position on this resolution. As it has been pointed out several times here, I fully agree with that, this resolution is a political stance, first of all. I think we should also treat her as a political attitude and treat her that way, or that we should treat our position as a party in the Assembly and give in relation to it. Because the fact is that at this point only the issue of withdrawing the NATO lawsuit is not at all in Serbia and should not be a topic. That shouldn't be a subject for many reasons. One is that there is no legal or material significance in the context of any of the processes in which this country is located. This applies both to the process of joining the Partnership for Peace and the process of joining the European Union. However, in this context, the G17 plus is against itself, unconditionally and at this point, the withdrawal of the suit. That should be thought about, as well as about how Serbia's state will even act on the lawsuit, when the right time comes. The second, however, is the question of what is the political position itself, not according to the lawsuit, but the political attitude towards one policy, which has been done for a long time, for me and too long, in the name of this people and for this people, for the Serbian people, and the policy that has managed to humiliate the most in its history for about a decade. In that sense, G17 plus expresses the political stance that the G17 plus parliamentary group will vote against this resolution accordingly. I would like to read to you the parts of this resolution, since I see that, although it is, of course, available to the public through the work of the congregation, we have so far not had the opportunity to hear its parts, so I assume you will also recognize from it a certain very specific rhetoric, characteristic of some of the past times. Point 2 of the resolution: "No representative of the Republic of Serbia in the bodies of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the authorities of the Republic of Serbia may or may not sign or accept in any other way or agree on formal or factual, direct or indirect withdrawal or withdrawal from the suit" etc. Point 3: "All acts or actions taken contrary to points 1 and 2 of this resolution are void and do not commit to the Republic of Serbia, and are considered to be the betrayal of the Republic of Serbia and the most serious crime against the people being punished as a serious crime." So again we come to that intersection, where on the one hand there are patriots, and on the other hand there are traitors, foreign mercenaries and many different terms that have been used, thank God and I can't remember them. The question is, here – what is patriotism? I've always interpreted patriotism as that feeling and that attitude when you want good to your people and your country. I don't see this resolution wanting to be good to the people and even less to the state. Why? Very simple – this is a way of political communication. So we can express our views and every position in this context is legitimate, it was for or against withdrawing the lawsuit or its non-retiredness. In that sense, I agree with what's been said here on several occasions. No, you don't have to drop the lawsuit now and certainly shouldn't do it unconditionally. On the other hand, the question is, how do we think and do we even think we're communicating with the world? If we have overcome this problem, then there is no room for us to discuss one of these texts, or one of these resolutions. Is there any other way for us to communicate with the world, to be in the interest of our country, without being in this tone that offers this resolution. I believe that there is a way to defend our interests, to simply find the most favourable position for our country and that this position reflects our country's strength, not to address our citizens, Europe and the world in this way. Because that's exactly what we're doing. As much as this resolution, in the text proposed, only obliges the authorities of the Serbian state, or its citizens, to represent it, it is one of the signals that we send and that is not a good signal at all. That's that signal in the tone with those signals we gave over the past decade. We all know very well where it took us, or very well, we all know how isolated we were and what our position was. This, of course, does not mean that anyone in this country, of the citizens of this country, contributed to the bombing, or that he was responsible for it. I'm sure the citizens aren't. I think it's absolutely tragic that five years after the 1999 bombing, we're listening to how the bombing is actually being used, or how the tragedy that happened to a nation for purely political purposes is being misused. Why talk about where all the bombs went down? Gentlemen, she fell one across the street from my house, but that doesn't mean every time we talk about it, we should use it for political marketing, because it's not political marketing. It is 78 days, which were tragic for the Serbian people. We also need to start by asking ourselves what kind of policy it is on our behalf, which has contributed to meeting us in the position we found ourselves in 1999, because that's what's most tragic, which is the policy that's being led on our behalf. So when we talk about foreign mercenaries and domestic traitors, they're the people who simply wouldn't allow it at the time. They did not want to allow a policy that led to Serbia's complete destruction on their behalf. That, gentlemen, has nothing to do with the tragedy that happened during the 78 days of NATO bombing. That's two separate things. Stop changing the thesis already. This tone, which stands in this resolution, the G17 plus will never accept. So, we accept that we are discussing how to get the best possible position for Serbia in the international community, how Serbia, with the best negotiating position, should also go into the Partnership for Peace and European Integration process. In that sense, the issue of The Hague tribunal is only mentioned once, so I will mention it once more. Let's talk about it the way things are, and the fact that it's one of the questions that we have to solve, not just before all these lawsuits, but when we reach a consensus on what we really want. Because as declarative as we all talk about Europe, based on what seems to be on behalf of the state and the state, a big question arises whether we are really behind it. In the context of its principled views, when it comes to European integration, both Serbia's interests and its position, both within and towards the international community, G17 plus is explicitly against this resolution, and will also be declared in this assembly, and during this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-24-0.u6471	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
