ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I was called from this pay phone to explain some of the things that are going on at SO Novi Pazar. It is true that it is beyond the point it was, but yesterday here Mr. Baraj Omeragic usurped this pay phone on several occasions, where he presented disgusting lies and lies about the situation in the municipality of Novi Pazar. That's why I want as a councilman of SO Novi Pazar, so far three times elected in the majority election, and now for the fourth time as a boardman in the proportional electoral system, which means I know a lot of the opportunities of the Novi Pazar municipality, not to let it manipulate and speculate here with the situation. In the municipality of Novi Pazar, it is legally established SO Novi Pazar with most of the 26 committees, and we know it takes 24, because the total in SO Novi Pazar has 47 committees. It is true that most legally elected council members were prevented from holding a constitutive SO assembly in the Assembly Hall and it was prevented physically, so the committees held this constitutive session across the street at a restaurant. But it has been more than a month, legally elected representatives of the SO body are unable to enter the SO and do their job, selected by SO Novi Pazar, as are the committees to enter SO Novi Pazar. I believe that this is a unique case in our country, and perhaps throughout Europe, that it is not allowed by committees legally elected by citizens to do their job for which they are elected. Namely, this constitutive session of the SO was held with the presence of all the media, even those observation missions of the OSCE, NGOs, which Mrs List for Sandzak and Bajram Omeragic called in time for them to see human rights violations in the Raška area, i.e. in Sandzak. Today, I can publicly say here that these gentlemen who work there in front of these various observation missions are reporting that only in that space are now being violated by the human and civil rights of the Sandzak List and Mr Bajram Omeragic. He humiliates and jokes here with the state of Serbia, waves some papers, to God does not acknowledge any opinion given by the Ministry of Local Self-Government, as if it was not received by the keymaker SO Novi Pazar, and here from this pay phone I ask Mr. Bajram Omeragic, where did he get this opinion that he is waving and messing with this tall home. It means they got an opinion, but they didn't want to apply it. Furthermore, Mr Bajram Omeragic argues that the Ministry of Local Self-Government has no authority to explicitly order the application of SO Novi Pazar decisions, and I will remind Mr Bajram Omeragic and read only Article 105 and 106. Law on local self-government, which has an explicit title: Relations between the authorities of the Republic, territorial autonomy and bodies of the unit of local self-government. Article 105: “The organizations of the Republic, territorial autonomy and the authorities of the unit of local self - government work together to achieve their rights and duties in accordance with the Constitution and the law and other regulations. “ Here is the attitude of Article 3 106: “They are asking for the opinion of the competent authority of the Republic and territorial autonomy regarding the application of laws and other regulations that have a direct impact on the development and achievement of local self - government and on the work of the unit body of local self - government. “ Mr. Bajram Omeragic received this requested opinion, but unfortunately to this day they do not want to implement it. I know it's hard to lose power. Every power is sweet, but it's short. I remind you that Mr. Bajro Omeragic and his list of Sandzak lost elections in Prijepolje, lost power in Sjenica, and are now losing power in Novi Pazar. They're simply trying to hold power over the muscles in New Market. I am taking the opportunity to speak publicly from this speaker to the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, above all to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, Mr Loncar, as well as to this high house and President Predrag Markovic, that, in accordance with the Law on Local Elections and Selection of Committees, law enforcement and legal work of the Parliament of Novi Pazar. Otherwise, I said the last time, there's anarchy and there can happen some unforeseen things and events that certainly wouldn't answer to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10699	At the end of yesterday's session, Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic, head of the SPO-NS parliamentary group, urged MPs who were declared to speak in front of parliamentary groups to give up. Am I well informed that the agreement is that one MP should speak? No, I don't. We don't follow that rule. All right, then we'll continue on the list of registered speakers. Here you are, Mr Vladan Vukicevic, and let the MP Meso Omerovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday's debate on equalising the rights of fighters has sparked a bile controversy in this House. I don't think, in a way, we haven't learned much from the close and still past. Yesterday, it was resented that this assembly should bring some more important questions, and I think that this issue is also important, of national interest and deserves to be on the agenda, because someone has waited 60 years and a change to discuss this. I am also sure that there are more important questions that this congregation must discuss. One of the key issues of interest for all Serbian and Serbian citizens is the law on denationalisation and return of property. When such a law is on the agenda of this assembly, it will show all the destruction of the policy that has been done in the past, from 1945 to 1990. I want to say that for me, it is personally this law, which we are discussing today, the law of national interest and that it absolutely deserves to be brought to this session, but I think it may be inappropriate for speakers to come here with a written text, bring certain books, read various quotes of great historical figures and individuals, because I don't think it will do us any good. What I want to say is, which is a historical fact that no one in this room, and also in this state of Serbia, can kill, which is that there were two movements: one was a Montenegrin, Chetnik movement, and the other was a communist, Partizan movement. What's also an irrefutable fact that we have to face and what's what I've been tracking us back for centuries, and I'm afraid it's not in the future, and that's inconsistencies, incomprehension and inability to understand the moment where maybe our ancestors once lived, and we today. What we have to admit is that in either movement, the majority were Serbs. I don't want to present historical facts here and prove whether one movement was right, and the other wrong, whether it was a Chetnic movement, and in the wrong Partisan or whether the Partisans were right, and the Chetniks were wrong. Simply, it is impossible to prove today, or at least we, MPs, are not competent to prove it within three days, if history has not proved it and all historical experts in the past 60 and change years. I'd like to say that one mother was able to send one son into a Chetnic, equinox movement, and another son to send into the Partizan, communist movement, that the mother was fishing socks from the same sheep and the same wool and for the son who was in the Chetnik movement and for the son who was in the Partizan movement, that the mother was also diving tears when she heard that the Chetnik son was killed and with the same regret she was crying when the son of Partizan died, and that what was a great historical injustice, which is that those who won, they wrote history and declared that they were those who were the ones who blamed for all the evil that was happening in our premises. It's just impossible, it's not honorable, it's not fair, and it's what we have to break here today. Not to prove the historical facts and prove some letters about what Churchill said, what Roosevelt said. The great powers always said what was right for them, and we were always some cannon meat, for some great forces and individuals who used us. Of course, all the evil and all the trouble, all the misery, which was paid by the Serbian peasant and this Serbian people. So today we need to correct this historic injustice, not fighting historical facts, but fighting the mind that each of us should have here and realize that what happened to us shouldn't happen to us in the future, and God damn it, what time we're going to have can happen to us in the near future. To confess here, as humans, that it was a brother-killing civil war and that in such a war there was no winner, they were all defeated. Therefore, brothers and sisters of the People, I expect from you here and, of course, from those who were once friends, today gentlemen, to tell us only a few things, which is their secret, and our desire to know - where is the grave of Draža Mihailovic? It is honorable and fair after 60 years and change, that people and citizens of Serbia know. On the other hand, it would be honorable and fair if Joseph Broz Tito, who put this whole thing in our hands, did not like that flower house, but to move it out of it and put it there, bury it right where Draža Mihailovic is buried. Brothers and sisters MPs, we must stand up here for this kind of truth and realize that in the near future, if we continue with these divisions as they have been, Serbia will experience a bitter fate, and we all together with it, there will be a protectorate here, and we will experience, perhaps as they experience up in Bosnia today, that Ashdown is replacing the people they chose in the elections. Maybe we'll be happy in that situation if we get white, not a black grandchild. For these reasons, brothers and sisters MPs, I want us to bring this discussion to an end, to appeal to reason, and to declare this law, so that now those 80-year-olds, who have waited 60 years and change years, will receive their well-deserved pension and thus in some way ease the historical injustice and make those people rehabilitated, and to make a gentle step towards reason and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10701	Thank you, Mr. Vucicevic, for your great contribution to calming the situation and reconciliation. Thank you. The word has a People's MP Meho Omerovic, and let MP Dragoljub Kojcic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10702	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is indicative that no opinion from the Committee on Labour and Combat Affairs of the Serbian Parliament has been provided for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Their Families. The more indicative, the more resolute the government of the Republic of Serbia did not do the same, nor did the secretary of legislation. I think that without those opinions, the debate on this amendment and the addition of the law will not be complete. One such proposal, which is already two days ahead of us, is legally impossible and has no foothold in any of the laws, and they have found that, you will agree, yesterday and representatives of some parties who have contributed to this bill on the agenda. So, this bill is only politically possible. But let's get back to the bill. It is by its content and intention in direct contrast with the historical truth in the Yugoslav space of World War II, which refers to the anti-fascist struggle against the occupation and its associates. This proposal seeks to give anti-fascist legitimacy to the equivalent movement of Dragoljub Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic, who has had the formal legitimacy of certain circles of the refugee government of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in London, and in fact has done the greatest possible service to the fascist occupation in maintaining its occupational authority, the fight against the anti-fascist movement, or partisan squads, and terror towards the civilian population, which was assisted by the Partisan movement. Did the Chetniks fight the occupiers? The bill promoter says, the essence is truth, reconciliation, and the future. For the sake of the future, we MPs of the SDP are for historical reconciliation and truth, but on historical facts, and I will also serve them in explaining the answer to the above-mentioned question. By implementing the directives of the Supreme Chetnic Command, the regional Chetnic commanders made a secret and later open direct co-operation with the German and Italian occupation units, in order to provide weapons and obtain material assistance, by providing logistical support to the occupier in the fight against units of the People's Liberation Army, and in turn, it is known in general, the direct participation of the Chetnic units in the joint fight of the occupiers against the NOV. The Italians, I remind you, regularly paid monthly wages to all Chetniks on their part of the occupied Yugoslav territory and provided protection. There is so much information about Chetnik units and co-operation with German, Italian, Ustasha and other occupiers not in the archives of the former SFRY, as you say in the communist archives, there is evidence in the German, Italian, English, English, American, French, Soviet, and what is most important in the archives of the UN and the International Commission for the Identification of War Crimes by the fascist occupier and his associates, established by the decision of the Allies of the anti-fascist coalition in 1942, but I find it unnecesssarily necessary to explain themselves. Whether anywhere in the world, which we call on so often at the beginning of the 21st century today, the representatives of the Montenegrin movement are placed on the side of the anti-hitler coalition, or, such as the historical fact, are presented everywhere as fellow fascist occupiers. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the collaboration is collaboration, and there is no difference in the world. The types of collaboration differ only by the role the occupier has set for them, and the goal is the same, which is to preserve the authority of the occupier. The danger of rehabilitating such a collaboration with a fascist occupier is an unpredictable danger to our country. We are the only country in the world, especially in Europe, which politically, rehabilitating co-operation with a fascist occupier, in a way rehabilitates its ideology. I am convinced that the vast majority of Serbian citizens, regardless of their political and national membership, do not think so. This state of Serbia and its people really have an honorable and glorious history, let's not falsify it. Leave the past to history, and we, dear fellow MPs, need to deal with the issues the people have chosen us for, because Serbia has so many problems, difficulties and uncertainty that what is yesterday and today is only trying to escape from the harsh reality with this bill. We should discuss the most important issues of our present, which depend on the future of our country and our generations, I will remind you, it is about The Hague, Kosovo and Metohija, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. We are unable to reach a political consensus, so how then we expect that after sixty years, in just two days of debate in parliament, we will establish a historic reconciliation. I ask you, who will make peace with the citizens of Serbia who have confidence in this parliament, and of only four percent. Who will reconcile the military and independent commission...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10703	Mr. Omerovicu, the sixth minute stands out, be kind and finish, especially without providing incorrect information.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10704	Finishing... about the murder of two soldiers. Who will reconcile members of the Charter Commission with the highest representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens are sick of fighting, not just in parliament. Some of our citizens don't know how they'll survive for the next few months, and they don't care about the story of trust at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10705	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10706	Especially not a story that's over 60 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10707	Seven minutes, thank you so much for continuing to calm down the tension. Please, no one has been mentioned. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10708	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, and you have concluded that false facts have been presented here, and that is why I have reported to the Rules of Procedure and Article 100. I went out for a pay phone today not only to support the law that certainly was supported by the entire SPO-NS parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10709	It's not the subject of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10710	The facts are true...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10711	Tell me where the injured Rules of Procedure is and be kind, Mr. Beakey.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10712	The Rules of Procedure were injured by Mr. Omerovic comparing the Chetnik fighters as occupiers, including the parliamentary group, and 13 SP MPs, respectively, turn out to be occupiers, which is not true...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10713	I followed Mr. Omerovic's presentation carefully, and therefore I intervened. According to the Rules of Procedure, a principled discussion takes place, MPs come out and deliver their political views and give an argument. It's not a broken Rules of Procedure. You'll be able to talk later, and be kind, don't take your word for it like this. Thank you. Don't give the facts to the Rules of Procedure, please. Thank you very much for understanding. The People's Messenger Dragoljub Kojčić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Vucelic. It was only by article 100 that I warned the MP who said that he did not present false information about confidence in the congregation, because it was not good to insult the MPs and deceive the public. That data's not true. Here you go, Mr. Koicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am addressing at the same time those who are looking at us by electronic means, and I hope that this is a good part of Serbia, unfortunately one who is not employed, but well, it will be that too. What we talked about, this way, with this temper yesterday, it's not so bad, it's our hot hiduca blood and that's because we fought for democracy. I remembered, because sometimes when people want to understand the time they live in, they interpret it from the past, and I'm going to interpret it from the dimensions of the future, from the dimensions of my daughter. She's 17 now, and about seven or eight years ago, I guess, somewhere in 1996, at a school for a teacher to say one word, so you have to write as a student a whole sentence to practice. She has this talent to rhyme and the teacher gave a sentence to write about the words of the florist. She heard in the house that my grandmother's brother, and my uncle by whom I have a name, as a 17-18-year-old boy, had gone to the student Chetnik Corps of Mark Kotarc to cross over to Bosnia and Herzegovina to defend his Serbian people from Ustasha's handiwork. She heard communists out there around Miljevina killed over 10,000 people belonging to the student Chetnik Corps of Mark Kotarz. The child writes a verse like this: "A young brush has fallen into a flower, what curses will be called Serbia." And it was cursing. This people are uniting themselves, under the same signs fought by the escapades, they're the ones who are standing above me right now, they're the honorable flags, they're being carried by members of all the political parties. Thank God we fought for this democracy. What is also very important to me is that in the Serbian Republic, our countrymen have fought under the same signs, the same anthem, for that part of the right to national self-determination, which is now called the Serbian Republic. I'd say not that it was cursing, but it gave birth well, because partisan fans wear Chi's paintings in the stadium. It bothered me yesterday when the gentleman I know of, I'm not going to name him, I'm not going to tip him off to the Serbian public, but the man who came from Montenegro and who, with one ski rhetoric of the nose here, is some kind of paper that looks like those working university brochures of his own time, when he wants to not allow order between us to be re-entered here again. Look, we've made one problem here. The problem is that the right-wing movement is politicised in several political parties. It is a problem, but we all, each in our own way, to paraphrasise that Spanish sentence, we are loyal to that movement each in our own way, five-six people present in this Parliament, and that proved yesterday. The man now advocates telling us that we are co-laborators, that he does not allow Serbia to be re-adhesived and cracked again, that the man should go to Montenegro and join the divided Montenegro today, not allow the divided Montenegro to secede, to join the crackling Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro, and not to oppose Serbia that has given him refuge and hospitality. Mr. Ivica Dacic, who I think is an excellent intellectual, I think he's an honorable patriot, I think he's a very honest man and I'd like to ask that his very differentiated point of view be respected yesterday. As you know, since there was a chair at the Baška Congress many years ago in which Zivko Topalovic, the president of the Socialists, sat, and I do not believe that this Socialist Party of Serbia is the successor of Marxist political values, when it comes to such a gathering, I would like Mr Dacic to have his chair waiting there. It's an honorable man, and I'd say it's a bit discreetly heated by the flame of Chetnya. If there's anything, then he may be a Chetnik in a notebook, but he's an honorable man. Because he's in the notebook and I have something to ask him, and he knows I'm asking you this friendlyly. If, Mr. Dacic, you are calling for the opinion of the great forces in some estimates, in some papers on the Ravnog Movement, how can you not see that these same great forces about this country, about this people in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1999 and 2000 have also been described as disgustingly? Aren't you making an analogy? We need to rely on our experience, on our own truths. When mentioning that dictated letter to King Peter II Karadjordjevic, who sent the Chetniks with an invitation to join Tito, I remind you that the same force dictated to you to create an embargo on Drina in 1994, with our people disobeying that dictatorship, and your Gods did not listen to that dictatorship. Let me go back to one more factographic part now. There are two history. One official history written by the winners and most often written in these pamphlets of working universities; and there is another history covered by darkness of anonymity. Now I'm going to tell you a part of that story. My mother, Staka Markovic, born in Valjevo, an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a graduate economist before World War II, was named after their patriotic name after the same Serbian Hajduk blood as early as 1941. One part of my family, one part of my friends are right up from Kadina Luka's village, the firehouse. Please pay attention to the factography, you who teach history from communist textbooks. I'll give you a cardinal example. When the Germans surrounded the Straight Mountain to arrest Draža Mihailovic, Mr. Omerovic, this is the history of my people. When the Germans surrounded Ravna Gora in October to arrest Draž Mihailovic, he hid in the house of Dusan Obradovic and Milice Obradovic in the village of Kadina Luka that night. My mother was in that house that night, and on that night, the Germans, seeking Draž Mihailovic, arrested honorary Serbian officers, is one of Slovenian origins, Fregl and Major Misic. It's usually the son of the Duke of Živojin Music. They were arrested and shot, both of them. My mother, as an honorary Serbian patriot, was persecuted by the Gestapo, even in a German military court, persecuted by the Gestapo. When she could have helped the members of that other movement, it was simply because they were Serbs, saying they were also Serbian children. The Serbian children will come to her head in 1945 falsely testifying against her. My mother was arrested on 16 May 1945, a few days later. Freed and sentenced and served five years in prison by communists. She was in Zabela in Pozrevac, number 356. They stopped giving numbers when they got to the women's department up to 20,000. So, what I'm saying is I'm happy. What my parents fought for won, but it wasn't against anyone. I can say today that there may be crazy heads who still believe in a congress resolution in Dresden some 80 years ago, that the main political interest of the Communist international is to break the spine of Serbian hegemonism in the Balkans and that the phrase is still being used and used and has been fatal in this collapse of Yugoslavia over the past 10 years. I don't want to believe there's more of them in this room. I don't want to believe that anyone can think that winning one, to this day, is a minority part of the Serb people over the majority of the Serbian people, is a victory. Victory, gentlemen, is all of us, and that is why I can only say this, that the primordial political goals of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, not even the Serbian Communist party, as well as the well thought of Serbs, were not to fight the Germans, but to fight for the communist state. These were documents before World War II, and this was an honorable mission, absolutely nothing in this dispute. I don't think we need reconciliation. We who wanted to make peace, we somehow all gave amnesty yesterday, no one accused this other movement, no one was accusing the red movement, but we're not going to defend ourselves anymore. Done. We gave that arm of reconciliation. I think we're among ourselves, I say with some of me meaningless political differences absolutely in peace. What is it that I think is the deep meaning of this law? Not so much reconciliation, it depends on morality, it depends on the structure of people's character, but on the equality of rights. Whoever wants to rest, calm down. Ask General Mirkovic if he wants to make peace with us? There is no peace with Mirkovic. We just want justice, equality in rights. We want the court rulings v.E.G.E.C.E. to be annulled, and it's highly right, it's not called rehabilitation. You know what rehab is? When there was little blood here in Pogorevc and Zabela, then in 1948 it was caught amongst its own, and it was driven to Goli Island, and there they were beat neatly, tortured five or six times, and when it came back five or six years later, they asked him what it was like, and he said, without teeth, "Teacher." Then they rehabilitate him. We're not looking for rehabilitation, we're looking for a mistrial and what's called a desculpation by legal language, which means removing mounted guilt from members of the Montenegrin movement. In the end, to finish with this female genealogy, I believe in the character and morals of the Serbian woman. I will mention again when my daughter heard from her teacher in the third grade the same year that she heard from her schoolteacher, her schoolteachers, her folk enemies, and she was such a small, blue, tiny, but brave, like every Serbian, she stood up and said: “My grandmother is a Chetnik, but she is not a folk enemy. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10716	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an obligation to conduct the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pejcic, just a moment, let me say it. It is an obligation to run the Assembly according to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't break up on a few occasions when a injured member was 100. I understand that this is the subject of emotional and personal emotion, but here are the representatives of all Serbian citizens. I ask speakers that there are no statements that are racist, none of the citizens of Serbia can be referred to from this pay phone to go to another country to fight for something and neither can anyone make objections to this assembly, because it offends its dignity, that it chooses to work by one member of the Rules of Procedure, in particular when it has no government opinion or when it does not have the opinion of one committee, cannot apply another way. Please take care of it. Otherwise, because of the dignity of this congregation, I'm going to have to take a break again, to consult on what we've been agreeing on for two days. Here you are, Bogoljub Pejcic, as a representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10717	We must finally say and resolve the government's opinion. Gentlemen, the government's opinion should have been given by a competent minister belonging to the SDP and he would never give it. Let me be clear. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Meho, I don't mind you, you know very well all about the equinox movement, but here, Mr. Meho, Mr. Spaho knows much more about it, so let him tell you something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10718	Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, or the replica. Great. According to article 94 of the break up to 12.20 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 12,35]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're continuing to work, just to determine the quorum first. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I ask all MPs present in the room to put in cards so the session can begin, so that we can give our word to Mr. Obradovic. An offended MP. Make it possible. Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. By the time he gets to the pay phone, I remind you one more time, I'm not gonna stick to the warnings when it comes to these excesses, but I'm gonna take away the speaker's word. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10720	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I went out to advertise a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the 100th and a member of the 97th. I recognized myself in what Mr. Kojcic said, because yesterday during my presentation he threw me to tell lies, which is rude, but then I went over it, believing it was an incident that could happen, but it could be skipped and forgotten. But I can't get past this. What Mr Kojcic said was that I should return to Montenegro because I was born in Montenegro is a disgrace to the Serbian parliament, and it is also a shame to the DSS parliamentary group. It is a shame for parliament because in the past 14 years, a multi-party system in Serbia has never once happened to send another MP to return to his place of birth. If you do not know, 34 MPs of this assembly were not born in Serbia, 11 from the DSS parliamentary group. None of us have any idea he has the right to send anyone to the place where he was born. Yes, I was born in Montenegro, I'm proud of it. I came to Belgrade in 1978 and have lived in Belgrade ever since. I got a job here, got married, and I'm proud of everything I got from Serbia and what I gave Serbia. This is a prime example of an unculture and an incorrect relationship. The fact that Mr. Kojcic is a Chetnik is his right. The fact that he doesn't like the documents I've offered, and the ones I've been telling, there's nothing I can do about it. What he'd want to change history, that's his problem. Did someone get hurt, I'm really sorry, but we have nothing to do with it at this time in 2004. This is about trying to settle your personal relationship through revision and history. He can't. History can't change. All right, whoever thinks they can change. We won't give up the debate because we didn't challenge her. We did not support the proposal to discuss this document. The measure of culture, the correctness of relationships is to speak based on facts, not on what my grandmother told me or what I heard from there. Yesterday I said and called on the German document, that Colonel Mihailovic was avoiding fighting the Germans. Anyone who wants to discuss other topics should propose a relevant document to the National Assembly, but it is rude and incorrect in this way to treat MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one parliamentary party. Today we got the paper, the book, from the people of Vranić. On the night between December 20 and 21, 1941, 75 people, nine out of five, were slaughtered by Chetniks. (President: Please, Mr. Obradovic, it is not part of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm talking about. If you want a debate, you'll have a debate, but then we'll be taxing on what the Chetniks did, so you'll see how the Serbian public reacts to this. Our Secretary General will tell you about reconciliation and the Resolution of the National Assembly of 1998, reconciliation for you to revise history. It's a theme for the Assembly. In any case, I feel very bad that I experienced in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to use these tones. I resent you, too, Mr. President, for not reacting. I haven't been in a situation like this in 2001. I think this is one big trick to the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and each of us individually carries his cross and his seal, but this is a disgrace to the Serbian Parliament, that the MP is invited to return to the place where he was born. So 34 MPs should leave the NRS right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10721	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Once again, according to the Rules of Procedure, I warned at the end of the presentation of the MP and defended the dignity of the National Assembly. Allow once again my personal apology for not being alert enough at the moment of speaking words that offend some of the MPs personally, to respond immediately. I ask you to receive my personal apology, as I expect to be followed by an apology from anyone who personally hurts someone in a discussion that certainly has no intention. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, then Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Omerovic, then Mr. Kojcic. Mr. Spaho came forward before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10722	Dear People's MPs, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I apologize, for the first time I'm nervous, but I'll tell you everything. I've been called to say how I feel about this reconciliation, how I feel about Chetniks. I'm a partisans child, but I'm hanging out with my friends and godfathers who are Serbs and who had brushes in their family. I've come to the conclusion that I should process the subject and see who the Chetniks are. I read and I came to the conclusion that there were Muslims in the Chetniks. I'm just gonna make a point. My father was a partisan. Moving toward Valjev, in one part, covered with snow, he found a Chetnik with a diary. In that 300-page diary, there was only war between Chetniks and Germans. It wasn't like the Chetniks were at war with their Serb brothers. So my opinion, as far as the Chetniks are concerned, is that they were patriots and they were against the occupiers. But then again, after all that, it hurts me the most what we're going to do for today's reconciliation. How to make peace with those people who publicly called the bombing of our people, they died. I went to defend Serbia, to defend my people and my brothers. Some have publicly come forward and called the enemy to bomb us and kill our brothers. Reconciliation, as long as it was going to be forty years ago, we should have seen what we're going to do with this nation of ours, these Serbian brothers. Right now, the most distressed people in this Europe are Serbs, I tell you. Let's see what we can do and how we can all help ourselves together. The Chetniks were against the occupiers, the Partisans were against the occupiers. Reconciliation has to happen. We of the SRS are for reconciliation, but in one visible way to see how, what and how long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10723	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. I'm sorry you're speaking for the first time because you've been called. Here you are, Mr Aligrudić's replica; not according to the Rules of Procedure. The DSS parliamentary group was mentioned in the presentation of Mr Obradovic and the first replica was sought. Excuse me, please, I gave you my word, you'll get it, Mr. Omerovic, you have no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10724	Replication to Mr Obradovic's presentation. As far as reconciliation is concerned, Spaho is right for a little while, reconciliation implies something very different to what we're talking about in this debate. Reconciliation should be based on a few key things, which we are constantly talking about from the DSS, which is a few key points that we all have to agree on in this society so that we can move on, so that we can solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, the status of the state union, so that we can bring a new constitution of this country, because it will eventually become the brakes of further reform processes, so that we can join European integration. These are the key things to make it better for this people to live better, to have bread to eat. That's where we need a reconciliation. We can't calm the Chetniks and the Partisans today. We talked about it yesterday. We can have historical discussions here about this or that, discuss decisions from Yalta, Tehran, and that's not our job. We can't do that today. That is why I have urged us to concentrate on one basic and key issue, not the essence of the bill that has been passed and its reasoning, as some MPs who have proposed this law and whatever they write there. The bottom line is, what we see is the essence of this whole thing, that someone gave their life to defend their country and that it shouldn't matter to us, if he'd already given his life in that name and that it was certainly so that we didn't care what kind of mark he was wearing on his hat, that's all this debate has to end. Secondly, I was born in Belgrade, and my background is from Montenegro, and there are enough MPs, as Mr Obradovic said, in this House who were born outside the territory of this republic and who live and work today in this republic, who have the citizenship of this republic and who are here today the MPs. I can assure you one thing, that there are enough of these in the DSS in these benches and that no one from the DSS, the DSS MP group, has the intention of calling people on that basis and in any way alluding to go back to where they came from or where they were born, because that's the last thing that would come to any reasonable thought. If one of the DSS MPs were to say such a thing on behalf of my political party, my first and primary duty would be to fence myself from such a speech. Unfortunately, I wasn't in the O.R. when something was said that you heard. I'm going to get a stenogram and I'm going to read it, so I can't argue in advance, but if that's what's said, certainly the DSS can't stand behind it, and if it's true that that's what's said, I'd be the first to apologize to anyone who feels hurt or something on behalf of the DSS. If that's what happened, then I apologize and that's all I have to say about this. I really appeal that this debate comes down to its essence, that those people who have something to say on this subject say so, and that we are not making big far-reaching conclusions from historical debates, because none of us here are professors of history, nor are those who are watching the Third Channel, unfortunately, our students, so that they have to bifly all of this we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10725	Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Omerovic, you asked for a replica, right? Since it was a replica of your exposure, you have no right to replicate. Of course, Mrs. Nestorovic will be able to win by the Rules of Procedure, and before that you will be able to choose from the Rules of Procedure. (Meho Omerovic, from the site: Replication of Mr Kojčić's presentation. ) Replication of Mr. Kojcic's presentation, no problem, you will get the word after that, then Mr. Kojcic. That's why I'm saying, this is the first replica of Mr. Kojcic's exposure, and then Mr. Omerovic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10726	I called earlier about Mr. Kojcic's exposure, since I was mentioned, and of course I'm reporting on behalf of the parliamentary group as well. So, I don't know why some of this debate is today perceived as deciding today who won World War II. World War II ended 60 years ago. We can't change history. It will be seen well at the mark of 60 years of victory over fascism and it will be around the world. I don't think there was any intention to judge anyone here, or to express any personal insults or anything that could be interpreted in such a way. Of course, the debate on this is burdened with politics and the re-provoking of conflicts and divisions from the past. We drew attention to that, when the SPO parliamentary group asked for this to be put on the agenda. You know there are different political parties in this assembly. If we keep insisting on what divides us, there is no unity in Serbia, and that is why today, I say once again, we in the SPS absolutely do not want to politicise this debate. We don't want to discuss whether someone was wearing a five-pointer or a cocardine, whether he was wearing one or that uniform, but let's not just forgive this law for those who worked with the Germans and the Italians, even if it was who it was. If this law is well interpreted and correctly interpreted, Nedic's soldiers have the right to be anti-fascists, as they entered the Yugoslav Army in the country at the end of 1944. What about the Chetniks Đurisic who got an iron cross from Hitler? You know how, everything can change, anyone can get a pension, but they can't get anti-fascist status. Besides, it was best written by Vuk Draskovic in August 1974. As for that, I quoted what King Peter II said. And he, you say, was young. They repeat just one paragraph: “All those who rely on the enemy against the interest of their own people and their future and who would not respond to this call will not be able to free themselves from the betraying mark either in front of the people or in the face of history. With this message of mine, I condemn you to abuse the name of the King and the authority of the Crown, which tried to justify co-operation with the enemy and cause dissension among the fighting people in the most difficult hours of his history by using only the enemy. “ Also, Mr. Zarko Obradovic pointed out earlier, and I must say, what he was talking about here happened 61 years ago in the village of Vranic. It is not the struggle against fascism that 72 people were slaughtered by the Chetniks in Vranic. The tombstones that say the whole family was slaughtered from one year to 87 years from that house, are they anti-fascists? They're not. If they're all Chetniks, if you say they are, the ones they did, they're not. Therefore, I would also like to say here to the DSS parliamentary group, we are here discussing with the SPS who proposed this topic, however, I do not think that anyone has offended the SPS MPs, and I hope that all other MPs as the DSS. We expect the DSS team to respond adequately. The DSS is a party that advocates the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The first item at the next session is the electoral law for state Serbia-Montenegro, and you here share MPs by that. I wouldn't remind you that the SPS is a party that supports your government and your president. Our cooperation in this way is absolutely impossible. You can't expect us to support you, and you can say such insults to our account. If you need Mr. Aligrudić to get to know the stenogram, let him get to know himself. You applauded all of this as DSS MPs. I think we need to resolve all these questions if we want to have good relations. Mr. Zarko Obradovic and we expect an apology for what happened because it is a bad message for all of us. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: I have instructed you. You didn't tell us, but you said you'd meet a stenogram. If you've met a stenogram, you have time and opportunity to do so. By the way, I think this is a very bad message. I already said yesterday that this topic is not here because someone wants reconciliation, this topic is because they are brought back into the Serbian people and MPs of the Assembly and the parliamentary majority. Who doesn't get it, he's a political dilettante.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10727	National MP Meho Omerovic, a replica of Mr Kojcic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10728	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I would remind you that it is not the MPs of the SDP who sought and voted to put this item on the agenda of yesterday's and today's session. So please don't appeal or tell us what to concentrate on. We concentrate on what's on the agenda, and the agenda is just this proposal to amend and supplement the law. I answered because it's obvious that Mr. Kojcic misread my presentation by one of my gestures. It's a terrible misunderstanding. I'm getting some respect I didn't say at all. I'll remind you, and you were all in the hall about 40 minutes ago, I was talking about the honorable history of both the Serbian people and the Serbian state, all the innocent victims and fighters who fell against fascists, whether they were under this hat, under that hat, under this sign or that sign, personally and the representatives of my party, and I think all the citizens of our country of Serbia, owe only glory and gratitude. So, I'm not talking about them, I'm talking about those who worked with the occupier. Are we going to allow one Pavle Djurisic and his descendants, possibly, to enjoy the rights and privileges that would arise from such a bill? As for family tragedies, Mr. Kojcic, I have a similar tragedy in my family. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be a family in these areas that hasn't experienced such a fate, where they have both suffered from each other, from each other, from the other, from the third. In that war, everyone committed crimes, I repeat, and representatives of the Chetnik squad and representatives of the Partisan squad, representatives of some other formations. So we're not talking about it. I feel for every man, and I think that taking care of a man should be left to each individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10729	Mr. Kojcic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10730	In order for my position to be more understandable, I must, first of all, present myself politically to you. As early as 1990, a group of democratically-oriented Belgrade citizens, mostly and then some others, began a list of democratic and patriotic delicacies. I insisted that this paper was called "The State." I believed that the Serbian people had the right to live within ethnic borders and to match their statehood with them. That's not what happened. Today I am firmly convinced that our chance is being given in a united Europe. Otherwise, I was president of the Serbian Democratic Party in Serbia. So all my political aspirations were over the years the fall of the previous Yugoslavia directed right at Serbs living outside Serbia. I was from the DOS list in that transitional government since 15 October, which lasted until February 2000, as deputy minister of ties with Serbs outside Serbia. And now I'm a member of the Diaspora Committee. My obsession is not only for the benefit of the Serb people living in Serbia, but for the Serbian people as such, wherever they live. I participated in the Serbian Democratic Party's election campaign in Montenegro, and I also participated in the Serbian Democratic Party's elections in Republika Srpska. I just think that every one of us, therefore, pray that this misunderstanding is absolutely removed, do everything possible to improve the position of our people anywhere to live, specifically, when there are problems legal-ethnic arrangements of its existence in Croatia, as you know there is now, that we find ourselves as a firm foundation for our people living in the Republic of Croatia. So to me, as a man who was the editor-in-chief and in charge of the "State" list, who was a member of the Serbian Democratic Party, Serbia can at least be attributed to it. A friend of mine, by the way, is named Djordje Ocic, wrote a book, where, in light of that story, it is proved that Montenegrins are Serbs, vice versa -- and Serbs are Montenegrins. I believe it's a huge part of the Serb of Montenegrin origin. I'm saying this because this is obviously a misunderstanding. And my last name Kojcic is only in Montenegro and one leg that went to Slavonia via Arsenija Charnojevic. So, I just suggested that our political energy, constructive political energy, in order to preserve the common state, and that in some ways implies the preservation of the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and in the common state, is directed where we can contribute. I am still ready to go to Montenegro, to go to the Serbian Republic, with absolutely the same goals that have full legitimacy. So, I think this was just a misunderstanding, I think it's a stenogram, I just looked at it, I confirmed it. There's no reason it shouldn't be like that. (President: And on that behalf you apologize? On behalf of the state cause, if anyone feels hurt, I apologize, and also, on behalf of the state reason, I will not ask if it is offensive to tell someone and his family that he is a collaborator.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10731	Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Ms Nestorović, then Blagica Kostic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10732	I report to the Rules of Procedure, and the proposal of Mr. Pejcic's presentation before you gave a brief break, because Mr. Pejcic found here that there was no opinion of the competent minister, Mr. Slobodan Lalovic, whom he presented as SDP minister, with the conclusion that such opinions would never be. By the way, at the beginning of my speech here yesterday, I said that it seems to me that this proposal on reconciliation, as it is said in the explanation, is somehow on a small door to the Assembly, because we can't talk about large topics in a way that we can bring them to wages, or to money, because if it's a story of national reconciliation, then it should be in the light of the solemn declaration of reconciliation, which this assembly without debate would adopt. I have to deny Mr. Pejcic, since here is Mr. Lalovic's opinion given on 9.11.2004. In order not to read this opinion, because everyone can get it, what is important for all Serbian lawmakers and the public, and it is particularly important for the SDP, to know that there is absolutely no ideological or political specifics in this opinion. The opinion is solely based on an analysis of the draft law, as tabled by 13 MEPs. What is the problem here, once again I want to repeat, which has not been found the right and appropriate way to talk about large topics, such as national reconciliation, according to the law of which there are large categories, such as truth, reconciliation and the future, in a way that the topic comes down to wages, to bid on crimes, to discuss this in an absolute intolerant atmosphere. I appeal to all of you to take advantage of this debate, and I want to believe that the SPO's intensity was national reconciliation, and it's not saying that crime relativates, I urge that we don't disqualify ourselves here, we don't insult ourselves, because it's not good for us or for our future work, it's not good for Serbia, it's not good for those who look at us outside Serbia. Once again, the truth is, there's an opinion and it's negative, and I have to say that it's absolutely the wrong approach and that for two days, and maybe two more days as things go, this way we're discussing such important and important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10733	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. The People's Messenger Blagica Kostic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Mr. Pejcic, please, just so we're clear to everyone who doesn't know it, it's not necessary for the Parliament to ever ask for the opinion of the minister. The assembly of ministers is not interested, it exclusively communicates with the government. Here you go, Miss Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10734	I appeal to article 100, responding to Mr. Dacic's exposure. The SPO is a party with a national reconciliation objective in its programme. Therefore, the SPO had no intention of handing over the draft law to the assembly procedure with the intention of causing any quarrel. We need to end the civil war so we can live in civil peace. The proposal for this law is a clear historical discontinuity with the time we've lived in for 60 years. All this stuff we're calling for, all the facts are still vague enough. The archives are closed, and we all claim that the data we're using here is true, so we open the files to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10735	Replication to Mrs. Nestorovic's presentation, one small correction, please, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10736	Nothing in order to deepen the debate, Mrs Nestorovic said it would be good for the Assembly to adopt and that it is not good that she did not adopt a declaration of national unity. That and what the People's Messenger of Mildice was saying. This assembly adopted the Declaration of National Unity. It was personally written by Vuk Draskovic, me and Milomir Minić, on 24 March 1998, and we were afraid not to go home before we came to the Assembly, and we wrote it in "Yugopetrol", not to mention speaking by heart, in the office of the director of "Yugopetrol". Right from that conversation and prepared declarations, we came to the Assembly and adopted that declaration of national unity. The declaration was published in "The Official Messenger". The assembly unanimously adopted "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 8 since 24 March 1998. These were the days when we prepared documentation and documents on the joint formation of SPS and SPS authorities. To that end, there was a joint declaration of national unity. It would be good for the Assembly to receive the document, for it is in the possession of the congregation. It's about the following things, and what we've been insisting on these two days. It's not a long declaration, one side, it is, and you voted for the declaration, it's nothing controversial in the declaration. (Tomislav Nikolic: Which one of us? You, when you were in parliament, the SRS, Mr. Nikolic. "Responsibility for achieving vital national state interests, the present and the future of Serbia imposes a commitment on the people's unity and on the fundamental needs of the state and people. All, regardless of party and other belongings, the well-being of peoples and citizens, should be of common concern and supreme interest. As historical occasions have determined that in the past the Serbian people are divided, this time requires harmony and unity. Serbia needs harmony and unity, so conscious responsibility requires time and expectations for people and citizens to advance and develop Serbia in peace, leaving all the divisions in the past to history. "I don't want to read any more, you can have it and take a look. Let's leave the shares to history. It's the essence of our pledge, that whoever considers himself an anti-fascist and has so far had the right to obtain the status of anti-fascist and all social rights on that basis. Let's not make those who killed and who were co-laborators proclaiming anti-fascists. I'm not talking about the whole of some movement in a positive or negative sense, but it's quite clear that there was a structure of clear Equality Squads that colluded with fascist Germany. That's why we leave history behind, and we deal with the laws of tomorrow's Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10737	Thank you, too, for contributing to calming down, so you called first Mr. Dacic and Mr. Nikolic, who you gave the basis for the replica, so that you could all contribute to the calming. Before that, Mr. Pejcic, as a promoter, has the right to propose first. The promoter's right every time he picks up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10738	I'm sorry, Mrs. Nestorovic, for not agreeing with the party's other Meha. He said, if we remember correctly, that we do not have the government's opinion and that it is unusual to discuss a law without the government's opinion. Now we hear from Mrs. Nestorovic that there is a government opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10739	No, there is no government opinion and, please, Mrs. Nestorovic confirmed it. She just thought it was the minister's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10740	Please, I've heard there's a negative government opinion. I've been on the Labour Committee three times, on the parent committee that needs to solve this case. But all three times, we didn't have the government's opinion. That's what I said. Which is why Mrs. Nestorovic now says she has the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10741	Mrs. Nestorovic, allow me, I will explain, there is no need, be kind, Mrs. Nestorovic said there is a minister's opinion and thus reflected on your exposure that the minister who is from one party will never give an opinion. Afterwards, I explained that the Assembly is not interested in the ministers' opinions, but is interested in the government's opinion, which is according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10742	I'm reporting for the replica, since there's a little bit of a mix between the lines of the replica and the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since Mrs. Blagica said that from the SPO, I want to put one thing to the attention before it comes to the agenda. Contrary to some expectations and false stories, the SPS will vote first to open files and publish a list of state security associates. Will all of you here vote for it, that's another question now. We will certainly vote for it, because we know that the SPS, at least like this in this system today, which has remained faithful to our ideas since the early 1990s, has nothing to do with all these things. I would like to draw attention, as well as to this item of the agenda, to the legislators of this law. Don't dig your own pits. You thought with these laws you'd dig up others and you'd fall into them. I quoted Vuk Draskovic as saying about the Chetnik. Allow me to quote part of the book of Slavko Zečević, the late one, who was once Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, who in one of my departments, and I ask you to listen carefully to what I am saying because I only say this once, says: "One day Zika Jovanovic, head of UDBE for Belgrade, and says that there is a small mountainous Hercegovic at the Faculty of Law who is a great improviser, but who could be used well in this situation. This Herzegovic, who was the reason Zika spoke to me, was Vuk Draskovic. I asked Zika why he came to me. He says we need some money to give him. I say, give him some money, but don't put him in touch with the man who's working on our strategic notices at the university, but give him some junior student we almost received from him. That's what they did." Read from the book, page 257. Of course, to open a file, to publish a list of associates, and you'll see how it goes. Please, I would really like to stop these unpleasant debates, since Mr Aligrudic has met a stenogram, I would really like to hear the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia on what has been said here, because I think it is a very difficult and painful issue for our party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10743	This concludes the replicas after the previous presentations, before Mr. Angelkovic's replica, and now we move on to the replica after Mr. Angelkovic's presentation. Mr. Dacic, I really ask you, this congregation is looking at these afternoon classes older and younger, please let us take care. Yesterday, you advised your children to read "Express Policy" instead of "Political Party." It's not right. To keep an eye on what we're quoting so the kids don't get it wrong. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10744	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by putting this point on the agenda some of you knew what they were doing, some of you might not. We told you at the beginning of the debate that we only want to participate in this if you want reconciliation. The reconciliation is to give up all discussions, as the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party did, for the heads of parliament to take their stand, to approach the vote, that the National Assembly that has the right to decide on this decision and bury the war axes. It's not reconciliation if you continue the wars here. It's not reconciliation to accuse the partisans, or the Chetniks, or the betrayal, or the collaboration, because you never know who made the betrayal. Did the Socialists and the SPO make a release in 1999? They did. They accepted the Ahtisaari-Charnomidin plan and you kept quiet when they accepted it. Now we are left without Kosovo and Metohija. Have I ever accused you of treason? I didn't. Whenever you and SPO found each other together for Serbia, it was bad: either you were fighting and burning cities or you were calming down in bad resolutions. So please, hang up, we'll get out of this session, we'll listen no more. We'll come back when it's voting day, our position to vote, and if you're not ashamed of your children looking at you, your grandkids looking at you, women looking at you, and you continue to argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10745	It's usually an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, the transmissions of the sessions are public. Here you are, Mr. Aligrudic, a replica of Mr. Dacic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10746	I got a stenogram of Mr. Kojcic's exposure. I read it carefully, and as I said in my previous presentation, which was also a replica of Mr Obradovic's presentation, I said that if anything was offensive to any of the MPs in this assembly, I apologized on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia. In doing so, I remain in that apology now, if for nothing else, because in the form of what is said here, it is said that essentially someone who is a MP here is one of those whom the Republic of Serbia provides hospitality and sanctuary. To anyone who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and who is a national MP, Serbia has no need to provide shelter and hospitality, he is a citizen of this country, a national MP representing the citizens of this country and, indeed, for such an expression, I have no choice but to apologize on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Of course, you heard before me the presentation of Mr. Kojcic, who explained the meaning of what he wanted to say and I believe that we can't particularly interpret it. The only person in charge of interpreting his own words was Mr. Kojcic. I can't get into it any further, but I can always say that every single one of us can happen that, as much as there's fair and good intentions in what he wants to say, in the form of what he's saying is wrong and that he's saying, even if he doesn't want to hurt someone, but then it stays that way, he stays recorded and there's no controversy about it either. That's why, and on that account, anyone in this room and those not in this room, who felt hurt because of this kind of expression, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10747	Did I get that right? Everyone, not anyone? You apologize to everyone who's hurt? That's right, thank you very much. The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10748	Since the Serbian Radical Party seems to have a role of reconciliation, and now the peace of Tadic, Kostunica and everything else, I am sorry they came out. I went out, I can't hand it to Vuk Draskovic, but I didn't have time to hand over the book to Mr Tomislav Nikolic "The Night of Kama", the Pantic family and the citizens of Vranic. May this book at least hold your attention for a moment to learn another truth that we think is necessary to you. Also, I will leave him a photocopy of a single member's decision, president of the local board of the Serbian Radical Party in the area of Cačka, who wrote that he no longer wants to be a radical because the SRS is voting for the law. I'll leave him here in this place, so when he gets here, he'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10749	It was a replica of Mr Nikolic's exposure. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Vucelic, has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Belic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10750	Dear President, honourable MPs, there are no Chetniks or Partisans in this room. There are some who enjoy being quite parody and farsic in the role of Chetniks, but they are not. Nor does civil war continue here, nor does World War II continue here. World War II ended with a convincing victory in the people's liberation movement, a people's liberation struggle. They were on the better side of the world, they won convincingly, they won the side of the Allies. They were together and the People's Liberation Fight and the People's Liberation Movement, got the size no one can take from them. Because of this, it is not a good reason that such an act that lies before us, which should be a law, which, of course, will by no means be a law, because it will not produce any legal consequences, as we know, but serves marketing and story, cannot change the historical truth. Not just historical, but also historical. In world history, there is a more or less general place, a completely general place, that the Chetnik movement belongs to the forces of co-operation and the forces of associates with fascist occupiers and represents a non-combating factor in the Balkans. So neither the People's Liberation Movement can be identified with the communist movement. He was much wider, something much bigger, and in this People's Liberation Movement he died in the fight against the occupiers of 305,000 members of the People's Liberation Movement. But here from this pay phone, it's been said that this act and this paper are some contribution to national reconciliation, correcting injustice, and that it's some kind of hand of reconciliation. And here's what it says in the light of this law that should be an act of reconciliation. It says so that the massacre clergy is equal to that of the Ustashas. It compares the folk's liberation movement with the Ustashas. No one compares the Chetnik movement with the Ustasha movement from this pay phone because it is simply an item that is incomparable, but in this proposal that pleads for reconciliation it is written to compare with the Ustashas. It is written like this in this act of reconciliation: “The great crime has been promoted for decades into virtue, a lie for truth, and hatred for faith.” It is recognised that the Chetniks fought against the People's Liberation Movement, and it is said in Article 15 – all the rights provided for in this law apply to all members of the NOR, regardless of whether they are condemned by the judicial verdicts that they participated in the fight against the partisan forces of the People's Liberation Army and the Yugoslav Army; and it is recognised. So, what else is calling for an alleged reconciliation? On one TV show, says Vuk Draskovic – on one side they went to the best, loyal oaths to a given king, country, ancestors, traditions, officers went, judges, intelligence, civil class, agriculture, and on the other side they went to the worlds, this refers to the partisan movement, the thong, very often people without biography, people who in the accident of their people and in some violent revolution saw an opportunity to seize the authorities. It's supposed to call for reconciliation and then an appeal in this assembly to stop fighting. This should be a contribution to peace, to the truth, etc. In general, words are constantly mentioned as truth, reconciliation, justice, the future, so when it comes to this historical truth and the attachment to truth and what Vuk Draskovic said on the TV show, so here's to repeat this famous feltton, what Vuk Draskovic says about the Chetnik movement. He also says that he didn't know the king for the traitorous and criminal role of his Chetniks. The historians have strong and irrefutable evidence that Peter was second to the shameful role of Chetnik not only knew from the very beginning of the war, but he himself stood at the head and at the top of the Quislin movement. In November 1942, when hundreds and hundreds of burned villages, thousands of graves, in black-headed mothers, were behind the Chetniks, as a silent witness of their crimes, when the Chetniks had largely received followers from German and Italian sentences, that was exactly that November the king, etc. Speaking of reconciliation and these reconciliation contributions, I want to say what the People's Liberation Movement has done for reconciliation. To remind Serbian lawmakers and the public, all those who responded to the appeals of Partizan troops until the fall of Italy in 1943 were already largely users or were beneficiaries of double-time pensions. Whoever returned came to the Partisan units before the fall of Italy, he achieved all the rights of fighting according to all the laws that were then positive. That's the first one. Secondly, those who did so after that date have achieved their wartime and enjoy today's pensions, I hope and God give them a long life, enjoy the pensions and enjoy the pensions they have earned on this ground of battle. Joseph Broz also declared two amnestys. The true amnesty was in 23.8.194, and the second was in 1.11.1944. Under these amnesties, it also ended with crimes and could have been included in the People's Liberation Movement. The SPS and Slobodan Milosevic have not helped either the Chetniks or the Partisans in Serbia since the beginning of Yugoslavia's collapse, nor have they been sharing, but have helped a complete Serbian people. So there was no difference in the regime in Belgrade, according to it, no difference was made, the Serbian people assisted. And if we add this resolution to the People's Unity, which Mr. Angelkovic mentioned earlier, then it is clear how much it was in the part of the Partizan movement of reconciliation and what real acts of reconciliation and real acts of forgiveness of sins are, and what is a cause and separation of cheeks in the Serbian people. They remind many of us, we need to get back to modern, new themes. We have a lot of current and important questions, and it's true, we're descendants of Chetniks and Partisans, someone's not a descendant of either and we're divided by other things and different things, and different problems and different questions from these, but they share us and this. But why is that important? It is important because the foothold is historic for today's current behaviour of part of the government in Serbia, and Vuk Draskovic, and Boris Tadic, and I don't know who is in these historical tushes that once prevailed over the Serbian people. In addition to this, I will read the report by Pavl Đurisic Draži Mihailovic on the crimes in which he says - (13 February 1943) actions in Pljeljska, Tchajničko and Focanski sresto against Muslims were committed, operations were performed exactly by order and by order. During the operation, it was approached by total destruction of Muslim life, regardless of gender and age. Victims. Our total victims were 22 dead, of which two accidents and 32 were injured. In Muslims 1,200 fighters and up to 8,000 other victims, women, old men and children. Pavle Djurisic writes - these are documents. All documents used by SPS MPs by documents Chetnic, Italian, American, English etc. What's inconsistencies here? We want today in the Serbian Parliament or tomorrow to most of us to declare recognition for what happened here, for this ethnic cleansing, and at the same time Vuk Draskovic and representatives of certain political parties advocate, ask for the urgent extradition of those suspected of having committed ethnic cleansing. Unproven. So, a confession for proven ethnic cleansing yesterday, and for this unproven punishment, there's a problem. This is where we come to new and modern topics and times. Of course, if the panegirians are co-laboration, if we law these co-operationists here today, it is logical that every defence of the country is punishable, and it is logical that these political parties who vote this fight to get Lazarevic as soon as possible, both Pavkovic and the generals are extradited. They have a historical foothold, and there's the consistency of the promoter, as was inconsistency here. If legalised within the scope of the occupation, if their own units are legalised, if they are legalised in non-dinens, non-decians, Chetniks, etc. It is logical then to work on legalising Kosovo's provisional institutions and to co-operate with Haradinaj as well. When it comes to the fourth subject, which Mr Aligrudic mentioned, which is the state community, then it is a very interesting approach to the preservation of the state union, which stems from this bill, that what is thought to be the official policy of Montenegro, and you know that they allow the monument to rise and Paul Djurisic and celebrate on July 13th as the day of the uprising, etc. We want to preserve the community by falsifying lies in historical lies on verified lies we want to break that relationship. And not only that, before that in Belgrade, change all streets of Montenegrin heroes, etc. which are originally from Montenegro, to change all streets and thus preserve the community of the state. So these aren't just reasons for history, but we also have current differences. We Socialists are looking for a foothold in those verticals of folk-freedom fighting, fighting for freedom, justice and truth, and all those who seek a foothold in collaboration are logically to behave so condescendingly, servilely, acknowledging the occupation of legitimacy and acknowledging and raising co-operation to the greatest possible skill. We're talking about the fourth subject, that's the way to Europe. I'm interested in what a trip to Europe that rests on anti-fascist traditions looks like, what that trip to Europe looks like through the affirmation of collaborationism. As it seems, I am keenly interested in the pursuit of this vertical people's liberation, the struggle for freedom, and who wants to single out NOB, the Serb people from the anti-fascism forces, where they belong in 1945. In 1944, at the release of Belgrade, you will see that all Partisan commanders, from Pek Dapčević, Kosta Nadja, to Koca Popovic, speak under American, Russian, English flags. So it's a respected ally force. There is no demand for modus beyond this, and there is no European integration, and that is where it is shown that there is no true word in Europe with this counterfeit. To bring an end, due to time, partisans and NOP have found themselves and have been on the better side of the world. They passed that exam when they needed to. We may offend some of them with this assembly, but to change their merits, their great role in a time when they showed heroism, courage, freedom, that can't be debated in this assembly. Those who insult them, who attack them, and who affirm a crime against them, must know that these same fighters, the same noble youth, have allowed them to do so. Things happen good and bad, but we Socialists won't vote for this bill, or any other law that goes this way. We stand constantly on the socialist tradition, on the free tradition that exists and there is no doubt about it. Other parties are likely to start again in the election campaign to represent other stories. This is our continuity, and that's how it's gonna stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10751	I thank you, Mr. Wolfie. She reported to the Rules of Procedure the People's MP Blagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10752	I'm referring to article 100. The predecessor spoke with disdain about the promoter. Mr. Vucelic was not yesterday when I was talking about what the national government we are celebrating here, some, did after October 1944 to its citizens. On behalf of the state, as a government, after October 1944, the largest sites were Belgrade, Cačak, Sabac, Leskovac and Pirot, where more than 100,000 people were killed. During the war, too, only 1941 in the vicinity of Užica and Cačka, Partisans killed several thousand people. No one denies individual crimes, but I'm telling you again, it's time to stop everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10753	Replica, MP Milorad Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10754	I'm referring to article 100. There's a trial attempt on NOP and NOB. We're talking about equating rights here, for God's sake, to make peace with the Chetical and Equality Movement. I spoke of acts of communists or Partisans and the liberation movement brought to national reconciliation. But this isn't about us judging now based on unproven inventions, because there's not a single document that would prove this, that we're judging in fact by the Partisan movement. It shows the real face of the promoter and makes sense of this topic, which we point to all the time in this debate. This is not about national reconciliation or recognition of rights. Here is the goal of something else, aggression, hatred, indignity, attack against partisan and NOP. This topic, fortunately for us, and fortunately for this people, was resolved in 1945 when we were on the side of the victory force.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10755	There are 59 MPs in the O.R. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10756	Before we continue to work, please determine the quorum. Put your cards in the MPs' units. Since it's obvious we don't have a quorum, a five-minute break. [[Resume session at 16.40 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, insert your MP cards into the identification units. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. The People's Messenger Milorad Belic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10758	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I see my participation in this debate as the intellectual and moral need of an individual to help correct a great historical injustice. However, as the discussion has been going on these days, I mean the last two days and today, I'm afraid we're on our way to doing another great injustice. For what? I will use the quote of one of these surviving members of the Yugoslav Army in the country, which is a more precise and accurate name, given that it was an army that worked according to the laws that were in force at the time, so the legitimate army of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and which had its own ministry, its military minister and legitimate government which was recognised both by allies and warring parties until the end of the war. This quote is in fact that for civil war, the greatest culprits are the unfathomable grey forces that have acted in the background of both sides for their own interests. This metaphor may be too harsh for what's going on here, but I also have the impression that it's about the creators who are staying somewhere on the side, or they're obviously visible, or they're more visible or less visible for this discussion to take place at this time. I'd just point to a few undeniable historical facts, you'll allow, politics is five or six decades above our domestic history. We shouldn't fall into that trap again. It's extremely unserious, and you're going to let me say dilettaneically, wave one book, with two books or data that we've learned by reading one book, no matter what the events, these or those, or wave one photocopyed document, whether it's a defense, whether it's an attack on one side or the other. What is most resentful to the Yugoslav army in the country, I think it can be classified in four categories, or four reasons. The first one we've been talking about these three days is what's called a collaboration. And why do I say that? There's a very big difference between a settlement and a co-operation. That's two things to tell when we're talking about collaboration. The deal is unique to all the guerrilla movements, the vas was today and today. So the deal between the two warring parties doesn't change anything in the mutual sense of enmity, but it's for a break, for the exchange of prisoners, for the care of the wounded and so on. On the other hand, co-operation represents something completely different and, of course, cannot be compared to a settlement. For many reasons, I think it is rude, and time can hardly allow us to talk about it, why there was a settlement between the Yugoslav army in the country, or its individual commanders and occupiers. Whether you believe it or not, it is a natural thing, but no single document speaks of direct co-operation of Dragoljub Mihailovic with the Germans, absolutely no one. Some volumes of construction have been published from the British archives, German archives and, unfortunately, our knowledge in the past five or six decades has been based on domestic history, and we know that it has been dominated by an official spirit of writing history. There have also been many delusions and numerous counterfeits, so if you want some taboo themes or, as we historians say, white stains that have simply not been talked about and have been skipped. Some events have been skipped, made up. There is no need for me to tell you that in professional historical journals, there are a dozen examples of how post-war rule is and how war winners faked individual documents. You see, those famous volumes, the so-called NOR chambers, came out about 14 volumes, and I don't know how many books they contain a series of evidenced and proven forgeries. For example, one of such forgeries, in 1943, was reportedly sent to the deputy Dragoljub Mihailovic somewhere in Bosnia and then the one who wrote the forgery, imagine it says, says Comrade Tito after the break of the uprising in Serbia, defected to Bosnia, etc. You can think of one member of this anti-fascist movement who will call the opposite leader no less than "other Tito". I say, it's pointless to talk about one, two, three or more data. So, as far as this collaboration is concerned, I said we had to distinguish between settlement and co-operation. Here the consequences were, above all, the organisation of the Yugoslav army in the country and, of course, poor discipline. However, we must not forget the so - called. existential adaptation, as historians call it, which was present in Bosnia, Croatia, or in Herzegovina, means in the Dalmatian hinterland. What was that, of course, very familiar. It was about taking care of the Serb population in front of the Ustasha knife. There were indeed some agreements between the Yugoslav military commanders in the country, and the same situation was in the Italian occupation zone. But when we talk about another sin that honors the defeated party, it is crimes. Of course, I'm saying again, there's little time, but you'll allow it and it's a notorious fact, in every civil war, these crimes are really uncontrollably happening, simply put, they're taking control and, of course, on both sides. Again, it is pointless now to give examples of how much has been done in Herzegovina, Montenegro, where entire villages, of course from the Partizan side and vice versa, have been completely destroyed when members of the Yugoslav army in the country came. So that's something that's a notorious fact and that's done on both sides. But there's no excuse for the winning side of what they did, from the Wall Bridge, from Kočevje over the march of death to the inside and, of course, later on in those tapes. There's an anecdote for a judge, Stijovic, who, at the time of the verdict, dragged his hand into his pocket, pulled out a handful of corn, threw it on the table and said, let's see how many of these gangs we can measure. That's really true. As many grains as were found in that judge's hand at that moment, that's what he was getting. So I wouldn't talk about it anymore. The third thing, which is also very important, is a mutual accusation of causing civil war. Of course, those war winners have tried their best to blame the defeated side of emigration for the last ten years in our domestic history for other facts. I say, for the last ten years, because the process of historical knowledge is long and requires reading of new historical sources, but also reading of those old and their new values. The responsibility for civil war may well be contained again in one sentence in the memoirs of one of the surviving participants, where it is said that the war is caused by a minority who is natural to most and the majority who resisted the minority through the arms. It may be more philosophical and metaphorical, but it's quite illustrative about why civil war took place. The concern of this biological potential of the people, of course, has affected the strategy and the complete concept of the guerrilla movement, i.e. the guerrilla way of fighting applied by the Yugoslav Army in the country. If I tell you the information, but I say it again, you have to believe, because that's what the profession says, and it doesn't say an MP, or it doesn't say a sharp politician: between September and December 1941, some 4,000 fighters were killed, shooting 35,000 hostages. In return, the Germans had 160 dead, 378 wounded. I think it would have taken us a long way to talk about what happened to Kozar, what happened to Kadinach, etc. These are all examples, and based on the guerrilla movements that were present in Europe at the time. You know, it's a lot easier for a historian today to talk about it, because he knows what happened and he knows that there were directives everywhere, like De Gaulle, after a great retaliatory act in Montpellier, Nancy, and in three or four French cities, he's ordered to refrain from provocation, of course, because of those famous revenges. On the other hand, we also know that the Allies, first of all the English, kept ordering Mikhailovic and, of course, the English intelligence mission, which was in Mihailovic's headquarters from 1941 until the end of 1944, when McDowell, or a member of the US intelligence mission, left, was suggested to carry out as much action as possible at any cost, as much sabotage as possible. Is it natural that, on the one hand, it is suggested to the guerrilla movement, for example, the resistance movement in France, to refrain from all provocations, of course, because of the execution of the occupiers, and on the other hand, that it is required of Mihailovic himself. It was just one of his indecisive enigmas. There were more, and those objective shortcomings, etc., which we can go and use the National Library fund, is very rich, and remember, since July we've all been collective members. I would strongly advise you to use your spare time to read what it's written about. I forgot the fourth factor, and that's what the Yugoslav army in the country respects, and that's non-combatance. He's also tied to this previous story. From August 31st, and this is what the founders learn in the eighth grade of elementary school, in textbooks, when Lieutenant Colonel Veselin Misita released Loznica until the final release of Kruševec, and I think there are MPs here from Kruševac, when the Chetnik Major, the commander of the Rasin Corps, Dragutin Keserović, released Kruševac. But then, of course, the Red Arms handed him over to the Partisans and the express trial, which did not last more than 15 days, with several prominent national fighters, convicted and shot, all the way to, say, the false release of Prepolje, Visegrad, etc. through the BBC. I say false, because it was represented by partisans, but that's quite another problem, that's the problem of falsifying information that went through Cairo, or one of the sections of the English intelligence service, where all the pro-Communist and left-wing officers sat. There are documents from both the German archives and the British archives. Stanisa Vlahovic published it, Ivana Mihajlović, according to German sources etc. So we have to refrain, on the one hand, from talking about one document, about one event, about one maybe fact, and on the other hand deny all that, if that's the other side. It's not the path that leads us to what we're here for today. It's simply a matter of desire, whether we intend to keep this past to historians. Of course, I have to say, in our domestic history, there's still this, uh, continued civil war going on. It's true they're the biggest culprits, and I'm free to say it from here. On the one hand, we have these that will be applied apologeticly to liquids, etc. The famous revolution, but on the other hand, we have one play by younger historians who are trying to show our latest past in a very critical way differently. So, once again, I urge us to think about the future, to leave this past to experts, historians, and simply not to argue here and not waste time, not to waste the energy of something, in fact, which is not, to say the least, our profession, or the waist of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10759	Since all the MPs have used time from the reported speakers, only two speakers from the DSS remain, but before I give them my word, the People's MP Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure, will get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10760	Ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of this topic and the need for citizens to know about it, and referring to what Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic said, there will be no session during his presidency that will not have TV transmissions, given that there is no TV transmission at the moment, I suggest we stop the work until RTS delivers directly. I hope that all of you are in the best interest of the public of work, since this is a very important topic that you requested. So, I suggest we stop working until a direct TV transmission is secured. Please, those are the words of Predrag Markovic, do not again, by your procedure, cause Predrag Markovic to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10761	Thank you. I'll set a break of 15 minutes. It's been verified that there's no transmission, the MP Ivica Dacic is right, they said they're going to re-air it, because there's a game on the air right now. I respect this proposal. We're gonna take a 15-minute break to try and secure the transmission, so I'll see you in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-16-0.u10762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it is no longer possible for Serbia's television, because of the pre-determined scheme and signed contracts, to allow the transfer after 17.00 hours, and since it is no longer on the list, since two representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia have given up, and the rest have run out of time and I have been informed by the head of the parliamentary group that the principle debate has been concluded, we will continue tomorrow morning at 10.00 in the morning in Article 81(4) due to the urgency to pass the laws with the next session as soon as possible. Please, everyone here tomorrow at 10.00 hours, we continue to work on the amendments. At the same time, I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the cabinet.
