ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34345	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, since I have been chosen the fifth time as a MP this time, I have lived to be the oldest among you. If I am the oldest MP, it means that Parliament's composition is very young, and that's one of the conditions for us to work successfully. I would also like to inform you that this session, according to the notice from the desk where you signed, is attended by 237 MPs. We will still have to count how many MPs are in the O.R. So, you will raise your hand, and the service will count. I remind you that, according to Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, shall be chaired by the oldest Members of Parliament, who shall be assisted by one, the youngest, national MP, with four electoral lists received by the largest number of seats and by the Secretary of the National Assembly. Since I am the oldest National MP, I have the honour and obligation to chair this session until the election of the National Assembly President, which will be assisted by the youngest MPs, and this: Zlata Radovanovic, the youngest MP from the Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj; Dusan Proroković, the youngest MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica; Vladimir Petkovic, the youngest MP from the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic; Ivan Zivadinović, the youngest national MP from the election list G17 plus – Miroljub Labus and Angelka Dimitrijevic, secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 244 MPs attend today's session, and according to Article 80, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 82(3) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are conditions for working and deciding. The minutes from this session will be handled by the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As usual, the course of the session is stenographed and recorded. According to Article 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held at the First Session of the National Assembly, shall confirm the mandate of the MPs, the election of the president, vice presidents and members of the working bodies of the National Assembly and the appointment of the secretary of the National Assembly. In agreement with the provision of the Rules of Procedure, I propose the following Dn e v n i r e d 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 5. The appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before voting on the proposed agenda, I would ask that the count determine the number of Members present. I ask the MPs to raise their hands and the service to do the count. The count found that 246 MPs were present in the hall. We have all the conditions to work on and decide. I find 246 MPs present. I'm putting the agenda on the table. We'll vote again by raising our hands. Who's on the agenda like this? (246) All MPs voted for this proposal, so 246. There's no need to ask if anyone's against or abstention, because they all voted in. That's how we adopted the agenda. I called for the session to be attended by Radoslav Baćovic, president of the Republic Election Commission, and several other members of the permanent composition of the RIK. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Articles 7 and 8). Rules of Procedure. People's MPs gain rights and responsibilities in the National Assembly on the day of their respective mandates. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, within 30 days of the election day. The National Assembly, at a constitutive session, on the proposal of a person chaired by the majority of the votes of the local MPs present, educates a three-member commission, from one member with three electoral lists that received the largest number of parliamentary mandates in the National Assembly. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission shall, on the basis of a report by the Republic of Election Commission, determine whether the information contained in the assurance of the selection of each MP is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and whether the assurances have been issued by the competent authority and the report shall be submitted to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the person chairing the constitutional session of the National Assembly finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances on election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of those MPs. In agreement with this and with the consultations that I have had, I propose that Members of Parliament be elected to the Commission to vote on a proposal for the education of the Commission to determine the agreement of the Parliament of the People's Parliament and the report of the Republic of Election Commission on the elections carried out. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand? Everyone. Do you mind? No, I don't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I find that we have chosen this commission. I call on the board members to withdraw, to go to the third floor, the session hall. There they are awaited by congregation officials. I also call on the president of the Republic Election Commission, Mr Baćovic, to join them on the third floor. Before we suspend this part of the session, in order to allow the Commission to carry out its part of the work set out in Articles 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the Members of Parliament to, during the break, in accordance with Article 10. The Rules of Procedure, carrying out the necessary consultations and, therefore, in writing to me, table proposals for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for the National Assembly, may propose at least 30 MPs, that the MP may participate in the proposal of only one candidate, that the proposal should contain the name and name of the candidates, biography, party membership, the name of the rapporteur, the justification and consent of the candidates, in writing. At the same time, in order to be more efficient in doing all the work related to the establishment of the National Assembly, I ask that the proposals for candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be submitted in the meantime and that the parliamentary groups to prepare and submit proposals for the composition of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please contact the Secretary of the National Assembly in order to make the necessary arrangements. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Parliament's vote and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. We'll continue work after a 90-minute break, exactly at 12:00 p.m. [[After break - 12.20.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the 1st item of the agenda – confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament. Please excuse me for this little delay of 15 minutes. I remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 28 December 2003. Before the start of this part of the session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Elections and the Republic Election Commission's report on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word? This is Mr. Petar Cvetkovic, who chaired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34347	Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, educated on 27 January 2004, pursuant to Article 27(4). Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments and of Members of Parliament and of Articles 4 and 7 of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to establish the consensus of the People's MP's Elections and the RIK report on the elections conducted for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 28 December 2003, submitted a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission found that RIK submitted a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the elections conducted for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 28 December 2003 and issued assurances on the election for MPs to the persons assigned the mandate. The Commission submitted 250 credentials on the selection of Members of Parliament. The information contained in these credentials was compared with the relevant data on persons assigned to the mandate in the RIK report. The Commission has found that the RIK report agrees with the assurances of the persons assigned to the mandates. The Commission proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate of elected Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34348	I thank Mr. Cvetkovic. According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on selecting Members of Parliament and Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's Parliament's Parliament's Parliament and the report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that RIK has submitted a report on the elections carried out and that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the RIK's report on the elections, confirming the mandate for all MPs. Dear People's MPs, allow me, continuing to chair this session, to wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. We, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and ladies, gathered together on the day of St. Sava to establish this assembly on the day of our great Enlightener and statesman. This congregation will surely enter political history as a sacred congregation. Our work will depend on how it will be evaluated by historians. I have great hope that we will work so successfully, that this congregation will receive a very high grade from future historians. We are moving to item two of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I would like to inform you that we are in accordance with Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received, I have to stop here, just one suggestion. They tell me the second proposal was submitted, but it's on multiplication. I didn't get it here at the president's table. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: We handed over the Service. You didn't bring me here. I don't have that proposal here. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I go to the Office or you? The secretary will leave. I've received one proposal, it's on multiplication, and it's going to be divided into all the MPs. We're waiting for another proposal. Now the Secretary of Parliament will bring it from here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two proposals: the first -- "we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be elected MP Dragan Marsican, member of the DSS"; the argument will be heard later and there are enough signatures of the MPs who are running for him; the second -- "we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be elected by the MP Gordan Pop-Lazic, a member of the SRS"; we have here a short biography, applicants -- enough signatures from the MPs who are proposing Mrs Pop-Lazic. So we have a legal two proposal candidates for the president of the assembly. The proposals are multiplying. They will soon be divided into all the MPs, and now I think we can't wait for that, for the authorized proposings to explain their proposals. Who's going to explain the proposal for Mr. Martian? Ambassador Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34349	Dear friends, dear newly elected MPs, on behalf of the DSS, I congratulate you once again on your election and I wish all of us a successful effort to stabilise difficult opportunities. One of the first steps each assembly must take, which is to establish, elect a president, vice presidents and all committees to assist in the exercise of power of this National Assembly. During the last days, talks were held on the establishment of the Assembly and the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In an effort to establish the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS offered a bid as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to party G17 plus, but in order to find a joint candidate for the president of the G17 Plus Assembly, it gave up its candidacy and supported DS candidate Dragan Marscanin. DSS candidate Dragan Marsican's signatures were supported by all MPs of the SP and New Serbia in this assembly, and we believe that this candidate will certainly be the most serious candidate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Marsicanin was born in Belgrade, where he graduated from elementary school, high school and graduated from the Faculty of Economics. Since 1992, when he was elected councilman and later president of Vračar Municipality, he has worked to build democratic institutions and was one of those who fought for democratic society. From January to December 2001, he was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the first democratic assembly since World War II and the establishment of parliamentaryism after the 1990s. In carrying out his duties as National Assembly President Mr. Marscanin has consistently advocated that the legislative authority builds the authority it has in democratic states; to foster the legislative initiative of all parliamentary groups, particularly opposition ones, and to exercise full and responsible control over the executive authority. Faced with unexpected political resistance to return to the National Assembly its powers, established by the Serbian parliamentary tradition back in the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, he resigned to the post in December 2001. Headed by his work so far and by the fact that the personality of strong democratic beliefs and a man who believes in parliamentaryism, we believe that the election of Dragan Marsican as Parliament's president will contribute to stabilising crisis institutions in Serbia, that whatever we do not have the president of the state, what we have in the resignation, we will get the Assembly to function, we will get the president of the Assembly who will be able to contribute to all other and future talks at the stabilisation of the institutions in Serbia. Therefore, the DSS, the SPO, New Serbia and G17 plus are proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dragan Marsicanin as president of the Republika Srpska Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34350	I thank Mr. Mihajlov and invite the motion to explain candidate Gordan Pop-Lazic. It's Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that we are holding this session today, because it will not be remembered for its efficiency, because it should have been maintained much earlier, but it is all the fruit of the pointless arrangements currently being made in Serbia. We propose to Gordan Pop-Lazic because, let me remind you, the Serbian Radical Party won the elections on 28 December 2003. Everything you try to do after that, except for the lack of the majority you're trying to create after our victory, extends the crisis that Serbia has fallen into, and if one of you says it is not conscious it should stop dealing with politics. You should choose today Gordana Pop-Lazic, and there is only one reason not to vote for her, that is if 126 MPs will support the proposal for another candidate. It's a sign that you've created a majority that can choose a government, so, in some ways, we radicals forgive you for teaming up against radicals and against Serbia, but, well, when there are 126 joints, you do what you think is best. If you do not have 126 MPs, then may I remind you that this is not an executive power, this is the legislative authority, in this building, at this session functions are divided according to the election results, as Serbian citizens wanted. Serbian citizens wanted the Serbian Radical Party to win this election, the one who wins, the highest function in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the highest function in this assembly is the National Assembly president. Why choose Gordana Pop-Lazic? Because you will have a democratic Rules of Procedure, because there will be no more punishment for MPs, because there will be no more fines, because there will be no more confiscation of words for one second, because there will be no more dictatorship here as it has been carried out in the last three years; half of the mandate was conducted by one president of the National Assembly, and in the second half of the term, the other president, but apart from the length of the hair, they have not differed in any other way, especially in the way that the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were held. Gordana Pop-Lazic is an extraordinary man, an extraordinary MP, has proved it to you, knows very well what democracy is, has finished Law School, is married, has three daughters. Gordana Pop-Lazic is a Serbian radical, the winner of the election. Only by unprincipled association, by association against the Serbian Radical Party, can it happen not to be elected president of the National Assembly, but it will only define us according to those who think they can have a majority, will define our future behaviour. From the bottom of my heart, I recommend Gordana Pop-Lazic, and you look into your heart a little bit, and think about how you will vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34352	I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, a search should be opened, but before the search is opened on these proposals, I would like to suggest that there is no possibility of applying the Rules of Procedure's provisions on the overall duration of the debate, given that no parliamentary groups have been established, so we need to agree on how to work. As far as I'm concerned, even though it doesn't have to mean anything to you, even though we've heard the argument, all MPs will get it, it would be the most realistic thing to do right away if we didn't have a debate. If you agree with this proposal, then we'll get to work. Come on, raise your hands, please, first by raising your hands so you don't have a debate. Who's in? Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal has been voted by 146, that's most of it. So there's no need to ask for any other proposal... We are crossing; therefore, well, please. Who's against my proposal? Let's count this one too. 102 MPs are opposed to the proposal. Therefore, my first proposal has been accepted and we will now move to a plea. Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34353	Mr. Chairman, let's decide whether the vote will be public or secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34354	It's just gonna be a turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34355	You say we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34356	No, I'll do what I have to do first.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34357	You're from the Democratic Party of Serbia, I'm afraid it will go slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-01-27-0.u34358	Don't be so hasty, it didn't take this much time, Mr. Nikolic, we'll vote on how to vote, I mean it. Please, we have established candidates. We're going to vote. The vote can be public or secret. The public vote shall be held by calling for MPs, and a secret vote through ballots, boxes and so on. For the sake of efficiency, I suggest we take the vote publicly. Who's up for that proposal, raise your hand? - Unanimity. ) Thank you very much, since the radicals have raised their hands, there is no need to ask who is against it. The proposal was passed and we just need to make a little more arrangements. So I find that the National Assembly has unanimously decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by public vote. Since the People's Assembly decided that the election of the president should take place by a public vote, we should hold the vote by calling the MPs (Article 13). Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you, Article 120. The Rules of Procedure set out in particular the implementation of the public vote by a call, and accordingly, the National Assembly secretary should call on the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name. National MPs say the full name and last name of the candidate they vote for. The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. So, please, you will now be called. The Secretary of the congregation will call each of you a Messenger. We'll vote on the first proposal, and that's for Mr. Martian's candidate. He's telling me right now that he can talk about each other at the same time. When an MP is called, he will stand up and then he will say, "I vote for the Martian or I vote for Gordana Pop-Lazic, which I will repeat as chairman." This girl and these young men who help me (yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, or no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Everyone here has a list and will be carefully marked; in the end we will gather votes and we will determine the fact. Here you go. Albianić Miloljub (for Dragana Maršićanina), Aleksandić Bojana (Maršićan), Aligrudić Milos (Maršić), Anastasovski Dragoljub (for Gordana Pop-Lazić), Angelković Zoran (ten), Antić Zoran (Pop-Lazić), Arsić Veroljub (Pop-Lazić), Adžić Slobodan (Maršić), Badžić Dr Javić (specić), Banović Donka (Pop-Maržanović), Baralić Rajko (main), Barac Milun (Pop-Lazić), Belić Branislav (main), Belić Milorad (Maršić), Beć (Maršjanćažanović) (Pop-Maržarić) (Pošarić) (Požarjanćažanović) Dr Branislav (Pop-Lazić Branić (Pop-Lazić) (Pop-Lazić) Mr Nenadavić) Jovanović Vlastimir (Pop-Lazić), Jovanovic M. Dragan (mainten), Jovanovic S. Dragan (mainten), Jovanovic Dragoslav (mainten), Jovanovic Zlatan (Pop-Lazić), Jovanovic Natasa (Pop-Lazić), Jovasevic Ljubisa (Maršićanin), Jović Dr Radoslav (Maršićanin), Jojic Petar (Pop-Lazić), Joksimović Obren (Maršićanin), Josimov Ivan (Maršjanin), Jočić Dragan (Maršić), Kalanovic Verica (Maršić), Karaičić Boris (Maršić), Karanović Nevenić (Maršić), Košidić Bojan (main), Kečić Dragan (Pop-Lazić), Klježić (Pošanić), Košičanić (Pošanić), Koziljić (Laziljić) (Poržić Kražić (Poržić) (Poržić) (Poržić) (Poziljić (Popić). Dr Svetislav (mainten), Kruška Borislava (Maršjanin), Kutić Bore (Pop-Lazić), Lazarevic Aleksandar (Maršić), Lakićić-Stojačić Snežana (ten), Lalić-Dravić Vesna (Maršić), Lalović Slobodan (Maršić), Ljemić Nenad (Maršić), Ljiljana (mainly supported), Ljubenović Tomislav (Pop-Lazić), Ljušić Radoš (maršić), Maršić Lazar (main), Maršić Lazar (Pop-Lazović), Markić (Marživić) Mirjavić (Popić) Možić (Pop-Lazić), Markić (Pop-Lazić), Marković Predrag (Maršić), Maršić (Marošanin), Marošanin), Marić (Majjanin), Maršin), Marić (Lažić) Drag (Popić) (Pović) (Popić) Drag (Popić) (Popić) (Pović) (Pović) (Pović, Mir (Popić) (Popić). Ladies and gentlemen, you've all been called, you've all spoken out, and now we're going to gather votes and see the results of this vote. I'm sorry, but we have to ask again how Daja Jovan (Pop-Lazic) voted and how she voted Dacin Zivodarka (sustained). Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, since we have held a vote to elect the National Assembly president by calling, I hereby conclude the vote and approach the outcome. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 248 MPs who joined the vote, 107 MPs voted for candidate Mr. Marsicanin, 80 MPs voted for candidate Mrs. Pop-Lazic, with 61 abstentions. Since none of the two proposed candidates received a majority of the votes of the MPs who joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly did not elect the National Assembly president and that the election process of the National Assembly will be repeated (Article 15(2)). Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will now give a 30-minute recess to consult with party representatives and see when this session will continue. The consultations will take place on the first floor, where the president's office is. [[After break - 14.00 hours.]] Resumption of Friday's session at 10.00 p.m.
