ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10763	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic and Milorad Belic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Laws on the Rights of Fighters, Military INVALIDs and Members of Their Families (specificities) Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, I ask – whether they want the word of the President or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. We suggest that Article 1 of the law be deleted for a number of reasons. First, in the basic text of the law whose changes are required, Article 1 reads: "This law regulates conditions for the exercise of the rights of NOR fighters, participants in earlier wars to free the country, members of their families, military people with disabilities and users of the family disability." This is a member of the 1st basic law. So that member is told what the law regulates and regulates the conditions for achieving the rights of NOR fighters. The promoter complements the following, therefore, in a member who regulates only the subject of the law, it now gives the conditions: "The status of the NOR fighter also has members of the Yugoslav Army in the country and the Ravnogorski Movement, starting from 17 April 1941 to 15 May 1945, under the same conditions as laid down in Article 2. The law on basic rights of fighters, military people with disabilities" and not to list any further. Therefore, it calls for the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Families brought to the federal level in 1998. It shows exactly what a fighter is. "The fighter was a Yugoslav citizen who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of territory and independence, the constitutional order of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, participated in the Liberation Wars 1912 and 1918, participated in the anti-fascist struggle in the Second World War, as a member of the Kingdom of the Yugoslav Army from 6 April to 17 April, in the formation of Allied armies, participated in the NOR" and not to list further. It is left out in this amendment proposal, which is found in the basic law – which is, the fighter is the one who participated in the fight against the occupier and his associates. Therefore, from this Article of the 2nd Basic Law on the Rights of Fighters, which otherwise determines the status of a fighter, it is clear that it is those who participated in the fight against the occupiers. Third, we come up with a key question – who took part in the fight against the occupiers? It is referred to in Article 2 of the basic law. We have made our position clear – everyone who participated in the fight against the occupiers, under any cap, deserves every honour and right. Anyone who's been killed, killed in the fight against the occupiers, deserves all the rights and all the honors. Anyone who's innocent of getting hurt by anyone deserves respect. But the amendment and supplementation of this law didn't take effect. As far as our socialist is concerned, the historical truth has been established and there is so much data about it in Germany, Italy, England, France, Russia, America, the United Nations, so much enough that it is known in the world as historical truth. The explanation that goes with this proposal does not close, as it is presented in public, but opens the door to new hatred and division, and we have nothing to do with it. We respect the 1998 Serbian Parliament Declaration, which said the division leaves history, and we are turning to the unity and future of all Serbian citizens. It says that the law is based on historical truth, and says, "It is historic that from 1941 to 1944, eight major occupation offensives were launched against General Mihailovic's forces." No mention of what offensive these are? Where were those fights led? Who's to say that? Which are fought against the Germans, etc. As the promoter himself said, history cannot change. True, it is based on truth and cannot be changed in the congregation. It's not the work of the Assembly, it's simply that if someone seriously thinks that they're bringing these truths into question, there are historical institutes, historical departments, the Academy of Science and serious authority would task them to investigate what is not true, what is true, whether there were injustices and those they were, to correct themselves. So this is the last of the social law that needs to be changed. For these reasons, we suggest that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10765	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have proposed that Article 1 be deleted. The bill, because it's a proposal that we think is meant to revise the history of World War II. Since the events that occurred nearly six decades ago are impossible to discuss in any other way this period to the language of information, i.e. facts and documents relevant for that period. First of all, I'm talking about the documents of the German Supreme Command, the royal army documents in the country, documents collected by other Allied forces. I'm saying this for a reason if this bill were to be adopted and what the proposer wants, we would practically do something unknown in the history of the modern world, at least on the premises of Europe, to rehabilitate a movement that was an active associate of both Germans and Italians in World War II. It's not a Partisan movement, and Tito was not also the leader of that Partisan movement to determine who belonged to the anti-fascist front. This is defined during the events and events in World War II, and it was determined by the allies themselves, and now after six decades it is not necessary and cannot be revised. I don't want to mention a number of documents that are international about the relationship of allies to these events and that I'm going from that point of view to this issue. This is about the requirement that the fighters of the Ravnogorje Movement also be recognised as active participants in the fight against fascism, which of course is not true. I must remind you, and fellow Petronijevic mentioned it, and the federal law that took over the Republic of Serbia speaks very clearly who the fighters are and who they refer to. Every one, regardless of which political one, so if you want military formation, since 1941, in Serbia belonged, anyone who wanted to be actively involved in the people's liberation movement, in the fight against the occupiers, in the fight against the Italians, in the fight against the Germans, had the opportunity to do so, and of course I decided. All those who wanted to be active participants in the fight against the Germans and the Italians used it rightly, either individually, or collectively. I must remind myself that also members of the Royal Army in the country, who listened to the appeal of King Peter Karadjordjevic, that everyone joined the People's Liberation Movement, had the opportunity to do something like that. They are rightly equaled with all other fighters. Therefore, accepting this proposal would be a classic example of the revision of history. It is not disputed, and I don't think it takes much to prove that the National Assembly, no matter what the outcome of this law, cannot change history. It is not disputed that the opposition to fascist occupiers was organised by the NOP, which fought armed in Yugoslavia in 1941. It is not disputed either, and it is something that we socialists like left-wings and as someone who respects history and facts and realizes, that by the end of October it was also 1941, that some Montenegrin commanders participated together with partisans or independently in the fight against occupiers and Quisling, and it was their choice and their own initiative. But it is not disputed either that since 31 October 1941, and according to the very commander of the Ravnogor movement, Draža Mihailovic, he has started the fight against the Partisans and made a promise not to fight the Germans. If the German Supreme Command report is looked at in an interview in Divers in 1941, it can be seen that even Draža Mihailovic apologizes to the Germans for some struggles that the Chetnik commanders or some military units have fought against the Germans, and calls it an isolated incident or events he has not decided on, nor has he given the command. Anyway, I don't think a history review is possible, I think the bill has that goal. The SPS parliamentary group is for these very reasons and has proposed that this member be deleted, we have submitted an amendment and on behalf of the SPS, I have an obligation to talk about the amendment and the event.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10767	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) In the name of the promoter, MP Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10768	I'd like to inform you that the SPO and NS MPs are not interested in this provocation. We decided not to discuss these amendments, to get to the vote as soon as possible. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that we accept all the amendments submitted by Mr Milos Aligrudić, but we also do not accept any amendments submitted by Mr Zarko Obradovic and Mr Milisav Petronijevic, for the reason that all their amendments essentially and significantly amend this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10769	National MP Zarko Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10770	I would also like to say to the Assembly, and to my fellow Members and to Mr Pejcic that the MP group of SPS does not consider its exposure as a way to provoke anyone. What we are today telling you and the public of Serbia is the SPS's position on this issue and is to call for relevant historical facts and documents. Whoever wants to challenge it may choose to come here or even better, since this topic belongs to distant history, organizes some scientific gathering, so let them offer any claim for those statements. Today we will talk about the content of the law, about what the law aims at, we will offer plenty of evidence that the proposal is wrong and, of course, to the Serbian public, we will leave the court on who is right. When I tell the Serbian public, that court has been passed long ago, but if the proposing has a political need to discuss it, we are ready to engage in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10771	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10772	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, the amendment tabled by fellow SPS MPs is a key and essential amendment that should be accepted for one reason, because the amendment is trying to convince everyone in this room. The public does not need to be convinced about this, which is that representatives of the Yugoslav Movement, i.e. representatives of the Yugoslav Army in the country, did not fight the occupiers, so they do not deserve to have the rights that the proposer is seeking under this bill. I think the amendment submitted by the SPS colleagues should be accepted and simply as the promoter has said, there are more reasons to pass this law. I'd say there's only one reason for his prenuptiality, and that one single reason is the historical truth. The only reason is the results of World War II, the existence, at the time, of the anti-hitler coalition, whose side were representatives of the People's Liberation Army and the Partizan movement. The only reason is, in the end, the recognition of their top commander, Peter the Second Karadjordjevic of London, and I don't think it's a good message to the international public, even less to all those who fell victim to World War II, especially when it comes to the fact that in May 2005, we celebrate 60 years of victory over fascism. The world's largest celebration will take place in Moscow. It will be attended by representatives of the French Army, the United Kingdom, the United States and representatives of our SCG army, or representatives of the Association of Yugoslav Fighters, which is also after 60 years of confirmation and recognition that representatives of the People's Liberation Army were the ones who fought in the ranks of the Partisan movement. If the motions to amend and supplement the laws have information that in May 2005, some of the representatives of the right-wing movement will be invited in Moscow, I am prepared to withdraw these words of my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10773	The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10774	Thank you, distinguished Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the SPS are in the principle debate, I hope they have made a clear and reasoned attempt to say and say why the SPS thinks this law should not be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll try through the amendments to say why. I came out to say one case, an example that almost happened, with which I believe you are also MPs and the general public of our Republic to know through the means of public information. The case took place in Smederev, when the parliamentary majority of DOS wanted, ending history, to call one of the squares in Smederev the square of Dimitri Ljotic. Our public and the European anti-fascist public were also on the move, it was written about it, and I think it is a credit that, in a sense, and a shame about toskines and in general made a great contribution to Mr. Zoran Djindjic, who had pretty much touched the ears of the then-president of the municipality because he had information and a clear view that such ideas and such endings of history could cause damage to our country. This has proved unequivocally through this discussion that has taken place in the past few days. That this law does not achieve anything we all, I think, and the general public of our Republic, that in this way reconciliation is not achieved or reached, and I don't think you should blame us for our wish and our commitment not to pass this law. That is why I propose that the amendment to Article 1 of this Law be accepted and that we do not thus fall into the trap of possibly new and further divisions, because I think we have had enough of this in the previous period and that in a different way we should correct any historical injustices, if any.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10775	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10776	Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, we don't think this is a provocation from the SPO that proposed this law. We understand that, they formed themselves as a political party at the sources of the right-wing movement, it is the political programme of a political party and it is understandable. But I don't understand that someone is accusing us because we're fighting for something that's clear that it's our policy, to protect those people who were anti-fascists, that we're fighting for this law not to adopt. It's not our provocation, of course, and I'm asking that we understand it that way. It's a struggle for historical facts, it's a struggle for those who fought for the freedom of this people, it's a battle for those who died, it's a struggle for those who didn't accept the occupier on our territory. In the same way, we will fight and fight for those who fought for freedom and those in Kosovo and Metohija, members of the police and the military, because if someone wanted reconciliation through this story of reconciliation, why didn't they also install members of the MUP and the Yugoslav Army in 1998 and 1999 in KIM in this law. And they fought harder. That there was no chance of waiting for another chance, so that it would be declared that they were still enemies. Experiences in recent years have spoken, yesterday I received one man, those who fought at KIM against KLA, they are harder to pass or better said against them are campaigning and hacks in many institutions, and above all in the MUP, and lead those who did not want to go to KIM or leave then the MUP. They simply did not want to participate in the defence of the Serb people. Are we sending a message to this law that no one should ever stand by the defense of their people again, but that it is better to cooperate with those who attack his people, who come to occupy him. Perhaps it was better to cooperate with the KLA than to fight the KLA. Maybe people will say we're young, and we're talking about World War II, but when we move it to 1998 and 1999, it kind of falls out of your sight. However, I am not surprised at some political parties, political groups, if 1,800 KLA members were released three years ago and released. This could happen in a few years, and all these members of the army and the police could be charged as if they were to blame for defending the Serbian people. This isn't just about what historical facts are like. We can read the quotes of anyone, historical institutes abroad, in Brussels and with us, and the letters of Draža Mihailovic, and King Peter and everything else, so well known and it is so clear that it is almost unnecessary to prove it, because it is quite clear. But this amendment is essential. I must say and appeal from this pay phone not to accept this amendment from the SPO, but to withdraw the law. That would be the correct thing to do, because, in fact, it shows to the public what a groundless attempt to revise history is, and that this law is in place where it doesn't belong. I know there's a political coalition here on two levels. One is a political coalition that should put the law on the agenda, such as the DS, and the other is a political coalition that should vote the law, such as the SRS. I understand what they've left, too, because they're in big trouble. You can't go after Serbia and bid that there are partisans, patriots, who should vote for you, and now you're voting for the Chetnik law. I understand people, and that's why they left it. But let them say it. Which they didn't say they were going to vote for the law, because if the SRS doesn't vote this law, it's better to pull it back than to waste three or four days. So they'll vote. I understand what the SPO advocates for that law. However, they are less in favour than you who will vote in favour of the law. But it's your political program and you're right. I totally understand that. Just don't change history. The DS voted to put this on the agenda, because they knew what the debate would be, to show who was where. And I understand them, even though it's a political project. That's why I'm asking the promoters to withdraw the law. It's easier to pull the law than to accept our amendment to delete this member and stop this story. As for the SPS, we have also shown these few days that we are ready in all our roles to fight in this House. We know that we are also the government, and that is a very successful government, we know that we are helping to pass some law, but if you want us to be the opposition, as we are the opposition to this law, and we have shown that as we know it. We can have another week on this bill, if you will, another week to prove the historical facts that the people will condemn. You know we can. So, I'm asking the Proposer not only to accept this amendment, but to withdraw the law, to break this rasomonyad, and to end the attempt to end history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10777	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10778	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that you may be able to plan your duties, I would like to say that I will talk about all the amendments in five minutes today. Plan the time. It's my right to come from the Rules of Procedure. The SPS, its MPs, Dr Zarko Obradovic and Misa Petronijevic have tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, where they predict that the member should be deleted. He is an essential member. If this member didn't exist, there would be no law. My intention is not to talk about anything that has no historical cover. Allow me in a few sentences to give an argument that goes in favor of our amendment and ask your support to accept the amendment, to vote for it. If everything the promoters said were true, let's say that everything is true, there's one thing that can't be ignored. I'm sorry to hear that. I'm sorry to hear that. I'm sorry to hear that. At the level of the Ravnogorski Movement, at the level of responsibility of the Corps commanders, the first, second and third, the worst was Zvonko Vukkovic. There was a system of physical elimination of opponents by slaughter. The commanders of the Corps personally determined the act of the leader of the black troikas, and they only knew their names. The leaders of the black three chose two others whose names were not known by the commander of the Corps. On the list of prisoners or those who should be captured, which were always members of the People's Liberation Movement or Communists, or the Peasants, or helpers of this movement, the Commander of the Corps has always personally placed the letter "Z" in front of the regular number. None of those who got the letter "Z" died differently than being slaughtered. In the Chacan area of 702 people were killed by members of the Ravnogorje movement,216 were slaughtered, out of which 97 women, of whom Milka Toroman, pregnant, were killed in the eighth month of pregnancy. In no depeši, in any act of the Montenegrin movement, the Partisan movement is never called otherwise than "communists", and now I hear that even from the bench is being thrown – communists. No dispatch says "partisans", "national liberation movement". It says "red" or "communists." Dear gentlemen, anyone who has been able to introduce into his war the system of reckoning with political opponents, with military opponents, with this kind of liquidation or elimination of the other side, must be prepared to accept the court of history. I'm not talking about individual cases, I'm not talking about exemplars that were on all sides, I'm talking about the system that existed. Only the hangar division, the ballistics, the Cherkes and the ones I mentioned As for Ustasha, I won't even them with the Chetnik movement and don't win, please. [[What about Ustasha?]] It's evil worse than all evil. That's why it's important that we know then that none of these people who came up with this or did this can achieve any of the rights that the law provides. I'll proceed with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10779	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10780	I will not particularly explain the amendment, nor will the other amendments I have tabled, because the written explanation was provided with the proposed text of the amendment. I thank the promoter who has accepted these amendments and I call on the National Assembly to vote for them and vote in the day. As for the DSS's stance on the other amendments, we will also not take part in the debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10781	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. We suggest that Article 2 be deleted for the following reasons. First, in the basic text of the law, whose changes are required, whose member is deleted, Article 2 speaks of the rights of military disabled, the users of the family disability within the meaning of this law that I was just talking about, which only regulates rights based on the status of a fighter, does not regulate the status of a fighter. The amendments requested by the Proposer shall be deleted. "In Article 2. The bill proposes that Article 3 of the Law be amended so that military disabled persons and family disabled users, in addition to those who have the property recognised under the applicable federal law governing the basic rights of the military disabled and the families of fallen fighters (so according to the regulation under which it should be regulated), are also considered as disabled and family of fallen members of the Yugoslav Army in the country and in the rightful movement." We come up with the key thing in this whole law, the 2nd position in this article, which speaks of the rights of the military disabled and members of their families – the “Employment of Ravnogorje 1941” is established. So, in this article of the law is established “Ravnogorska monument 1941” and further text is known to you, and even I say, its bearers are in everything equal with the bearers of the Partizan monument in 1941, although in that article they are not mentioned. So, the essence of one law and another, and this Serbian one that speaks of conditions and the one that spoke at the federal level about the basic rights of the fighters, to talk about the fight for liberation, about the fight against the occupiers. It is precisely specified in Article 2 of the basic federal law who are fighters, and we are not provoking anyone, nor speaking the language of hate, because I am not such a set or a party to which I belong. Simply, as far as the socialist is concerned, the truth is historicly well-known, and we ask the promoter to prove what is not true. I mentioned earlier, there are eight major occupation offensives listed. Tell me who these offensives are, who found it, etc. That's already some evidence, and we said, anyone who fought the occupiers under any hat, honor and rights. It's not here. The bottom line is, through one social law, there's a history that wants to be revised. If someone seriously thinks to question historical facts, then that's not how it's done, then go ahead, change and undo all decisions of the courts, rehabilitate, and only then make laws on all the rights that are required. I don't want to talk about those basic definitions of this assembly so that the legislator doesn't interfere with the judicial authority. The point is that. We have instructed sources yesterday and these days, mentioned Churchill, Roosevelt, King Peter, Wolf Draskovic himself, although the president of the Assembly told us not to quote from "Express Policy", but from "Political Partyer", but the Wolf did not write in "Political Partyer", he wrote in "Express Politics" in 1974, proving that this movement did not fight the occupier. That's the historical truth, if someone wants to question her, there's a way to do it right. By the way, the point here is to force those rights to equalize. This is not how people will make peace in Serbia. He'll be at peace when he finds out, if he isn't, what's the historical truth. It's not gonna stop the division like this. In this way, it will only deepen. The congregation can even it out, but it'll be forced. For these reasons, we suggest that this member be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10783	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The People's MP Jovan Todorovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10784	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I think this amendment of the SPS should be accepted, but I want those who advocate law-making to ask, does anyone really honestly think in this room that partisans and Chetniks and holders of Partisan and future equivalent monuments can be equated in this way. Does anyone in this room even know how many people would be members of that so-called. the Montenegrin movement was covered by this law. Does the promoter know how many of these people are and how much this would cost the state of Serbia? He doesn't know. Is it possible that the Partisans were only wrong to wage war against the Germans? The movement created by the communist initiative, which is true, 12,000 communists say it was 1941, but has grown into a people's liberation movement, a people's liberation struggle and created an army of over two million people at the end of the war. Not that all two million Partisans and fighters against the Germans were communists. It was not likely that there was a rational explanation by Chetnik Draja Mihailovic that they were essentially an anti-Communist movement and that they were tasked to prevent this red evil, and that they did so precisely by warring against two million patriots, those who wanted freedom from their country. If this law is passed in the National Assembly, I am convinced that this will be the result of the most triple compromise possible. The result of a sick idea that has already lasted 15 years in Serbia, to equalize what is unequal. It is not likely that in the next initiative of such a sick pronoun, we will come to the requirement that those who belonged to the so-called so-called. Ljotic's army is also equated with the partisan and that for those who have been in some other fascist units or those whom we can at least call occupier associates we should also discuss monuments, belongings, etc. They're talking about reconciliation. Can these two things be reconciled after 60 years and whether we really want to level what is equal cannot deepen conflicts in the Republic of Serbia, deepen these ideological differences, and, as a rational man, I have two more things in mind. Those members of the Chetnik movement, including that of Medjugorje, have been the honorary officers and soldiers of the Yugoslav Army who wanted to war against the Germans, and have done so since October 1941. Those who were deluded, so they spent 1942 and 1943 in the Chetnik army warring against the communists, as they say, and essentially against the Serb people, as a matter of fact, also had the opportunity to change their minds and move on to partisans, after both King Peter's confession and by allies and by Churchill. Those who did not, however, missed the opportunity to be fighters for the release of their country. Why would they now, after 60 years, give me a chance to become who they were never? Why would we give them that chance, even if it was dead people? I want to respect every man who fought against the Germans, but I haven't heard of any serious struggle that the Chetniks fought against the Germans for three days. All the fights were against the Partisans and that's what the truth is, and that's what my race cannot accept, and I could never vote for such a law, and I'm just surprised at those who will vote for such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10785	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The word has Meko Omerovic, so Zarko Obradovic, then Rajko, and so on and so on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10786	Of course, this amendment should be accepted from all of this, but what I cannot accept in any way, and I hope that the MPs sitting in the Serbian Parliament's hall at this moment, is that we are attending something that is truly sad and sad, and I will not talk about responsibility and parliamentary culture. There's no proposing officer in the O.R. The representatives of the DSS and the G17 plus are the hostages of the proposings who are not currently in the O.R., and unless they have arguments that could be opposed to these notorious historical facts about the fight against the Partisan movement and the NOB against the occupiers, at least I expected them to at least be present in the O.R. I'm asking the chairman to put all his authority into calling the proposing representatives to be here in the O.R., so if they want to listen to what we have to say let them listen, and if they don't want them to oppose any other arguments. It is obvious that the lack of arguments makes up for the lack of parliamentary relations with other colleagues at the moment sitting in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10787	Mr. Meho, I've made an effort and Mr. Pejcic just walked in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10788	Nice to meet you. I think a thousand documents exist, and in the following reports I will personally try to make sure that all of you, who have the patience and responsibility to listen to the facts, present documents that speak of direct co-operation of the representatives of the Ravnog Movement with the occupier - the German army, with the occupier - the Italian army, with even occupiers who are from the domain of the co-workers with the Germans, and I mean the Ustasha movement. In the next period we will speak and read the original documents. Whoever wants to listen is listening, but the notorious truth is that the representatives of the right-wing movement since 1 February 1942 have been exclusively in the service of the occupier and were in some way his extended hand in the former Yugoslavia's space. Therefore, the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia has legitimacy. That legitimacy, I remind you, gave them King Peter on August 29, 1944. Proposers say King Petar was forced to refer via Radio London an appeal to all representatives of the Montenegrin Movement and the Yugoslav Army in the country. I ask the question of who forced Churchill, who forced the Americans, who forced the French, who forced the Russians and the mighty Red Army to accept the People's Liberation Army, the Marshal Tito and the Partisan movement as the only authentic movement in the former Yugoslavia that fought the occupiers from the beginning to the end of World War II.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10789	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10790	Fellow MPs, I have proposed on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia to delete Article 2. The bill's proposal, because I believe it is deeply contrary to what happened in Serbia-Yugoslavia during the years of World War II and formally introduces inequality. In view of Article 2, the position of the member is set up on the Ravnogorska Monument 1941 and is equated with the Partizan Monument in 1941, and it is sufficient for a person to enter the ranks of the Ravnogore Movement, i.e. the Yugoslav Army in the country from 17 April 1941 to 31 December 1941. However, the bearers of the Partizan Monument were asked to prove that the entire time of the People's Liberation War were in the fight against the occupiers, without interruptions. Thus, the monument’s reputation in 1941 would be completely devalued, and the bearers of the Montenegrin monument in 1941 would be absolutely privileged. On the formal-legal side of this article so much, but the point is that by establishing this monument and accepting this member of the law, something that was not true during World War II, the truth is that the Kingdom Army units in the country or the Equality Movement fought against Germans, Italians and other occupiers. The facts are cruel and speak completely different to what the royal army was doing and what was its primary task. In favour of this thesis, I quote the head of the royal government's military cabinet, Major Zivan Knezevic, who submitted a very detailed report to Slobodan Jovanovic, the president of the royal government, in 1943, telling him what the English say about events in Yugoslavia's territory. "General Mihailovic cannot be sent weapons to fight partisans who are now the only ones fighting against the axle. Also, sending food depends on the ministry, the blockade, the state of our country under Italian occupation. There is a difficult situation in Serbia. General Mihailovic openly co-operates with the Italians and his orders are fully armed with Italian trucks in Bosnia to fight the partisans in a community with Italian troops. It is today that a battle is being fought north of Mostar between a 2,400-strong Draža squad from Montenegro in a community with Italians against Partisans. Draža Mihailovic is Quisling as well as Nedic, because Nedic co-operates with the Germans and Draža with the Italians. The orders of General Mihailovic do not fight at all now, and we and the English need to at least get into battle now, not in two or four months. When Allied troops land in the Balkans, we don't care if Nedic, Antonescu or General Mihailovic approach us. Then it'll all be boring. We now need General Mihailovic to step into action and destroy railway lines. He does not do this, and all his gossip about sabotage on the railways and the destruction of certain objects is not true. They, the English, have a report from their people in our country and that's for sure. “ These facts defined the U.K. government to change the attitude toward those who helped in 1941 and 1942. There are a number of agreements concluded with the Germans on co-operation and on the goal of fighting partisans. Here I will mention only one document signed by Colonel Jevrem Simic and the German command of joint co-operation, of course in the fight against the Partisans. The agreement, said the document, aims to join all units of Chetnik Draža Mihailovic, under Colonel Simic's command, the fight against the German and Bulgarian troops, as well as the Serb government's troops against the communists. In the area covered by the agreement, Chetnik Draga Mihailovic will be committed exclusively to the fight against the Partisans, thereby supporting the fight against law and order forces, etc. To fight against communist troops, Draža Mihailovic will make his reconnaissance intelligence and everything else unconditionally available to the forces. This black-and-white document confirms what we SPS members claim these two days, that it is about movement, about units, about an army that, together with the Germans and Italians, had a primary and essential goal of fighting the Partisans, that is, how they spoke against the communists. The internal reasons for them were the primary in relation to what was essential to the whole world back then, which was the fight against fascist Germany, Italy and all those who were in line with the force of evil. That's some of the reasons, we'll mention more, who led us to suggest that we delete this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10791	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10792	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments submitted on behalf of the SPS by MPs Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Milisav Petronijevic should be supported for the reasons we state. It's not possible, without injuring historical facts, to adopt a law that would regulate some of the rights that are proposed here. As an argument, I offer two important documents. One is the one about the capture of 87 Partisan fighters in Slovac near Valjev in the fall of 1941. There were almost 100 of them, 27 of them from Cuck. They were captured by Chetniks and replaced with Germans for ammunition. All of these were shot at Krusik near Valjev, and among them was Djurdje Pavlovic from Cačka, who was arrested by the Chetniks because he released from the implementation of seven skiers in Banjaca. It was his sin. The memory of the tablet in Valjev stands his name and the names of all these people. They were replaced for lead, for dust, for ammunition, and for their lives, which later brought death to those who think like them. I will read part of the order signed by Commander Tadic Branko, otherwise, he is the commander of the first division of the Ozren Chetnic Corps, under one -- "to immediately order your fighters to take a calm stand towards the enemy, except for the Partisans, but in addition to keeping all armed men together and on strict alert, i.e. to be in their positions. If our people met with the Krauts, and if the Krauts asked them why they were on alert, let them answer that they were only on alert to fight the Partisans." This same squad, which later grew into a Corps, and I'm talking about Ozrenski, on April 2, 1942, with a German command, exchanged several documents. They're all in the archives. For each of them, I can tell you what register they're in, what shelf they're on, what color ink they're written on and what they testify to. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Chetnik movement was not the same in all parts of the former Yugoslavia. In some parts, he faced the Germans more or less. In some parts, such as Western Serbia, until the battle for the King in 1941, he had honorable goals. But, ladies and gentlemen, in central and western Serbia, the members of this movement have done terrible deeds, terrible crimes, and it must be to anyone who is fundamentally well-intentioned, a clear argument why what you have suggested cannot be adopted. It was often said here yesterday that these others fired after the war too, members of this movement. I'm just asking you to distinguish one notion, although the consequence is, unfortunately, always the same for whoever's in front of the abandoned pipe. He wasn't the same shot, and he wasn't executed by shooting. That's two different things. When someone was executed by a shooting, he was executed on the basis of a judicial verdict. What kind of court it was, we can always talk about it. But we ask you to understand that you have entered a story that is hard to come out of without revising history, that in doing so you do not prove yourself proven and that, in order to correct, in your opinion, one great injustice, you do not commit other injustices. We thought this was all far behind us. Even though the wounds are deep, they're narrowed down. This is how you put us in a position to talk about this clearly and clearly. Our political program says we support NOB and appreciate its liquids. I understand those who have proposed law, who in their program have a different platform, but you can only expect from us what we are talking about here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10793	I thank Mr. Baralic. The word has a folk MP, Radoje Vukic. He gave up the discussion. I thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10794	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to say that the purpose of this amendment, as well as all other amendments submitted by the SPS to this law, is to bring this law into contact with historical facts. You've heard in the last two days a large number of arguments, facts, facts, which clearly state that this law audits history. It is very dangerous for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if it adopts a law that is in collegiate with widely accepted history. If someone does not believe the history written after World War II in Serbia, then they should look at the history of World War II written in other countries. He should look at the world history of World War II, where he will see exactly how the Ravnog movement was defined and what its role was in World War II. I repeat, it is dangerous for the National Assembly to pass a law that is in collegiate with widely accepted world history. What will be our credibility as the Assembly, regarding the laws we have passed and the laws we will pass, if it is now unequivocally and clearly seen that the law that is in conflict with history will be passed. I don't think it's a good time for a law like this to be passed at all. It reminds me of what's happening on that folks' saying, "the house burns and the grandmother combs her hair." We have not passed a law on government, nor a law on the National Assembly, nor passed a mass of important laws, and we are dealing with a law that allegedly, as it were, should help national reconciliation. I wouldn't be surprised, since we're on our way, to propose soon a law that will change some of the laws, let's say Newton's law of gravity, or Einstein's theory of relativity, etc. Please, history is very accurate. The historical facts are known. Your colleagues have documented all this in the last two days. At times, we seem to be at some symposium of historians, although there are historians among us, but we are not all historians. However, some things are very clear. Perhaps I can doubt the history of the winners, which I taught at school, because I was born after the war and I learned history in which things are presented as presented. But I can't doubt what my mother Koviljka, a Bosnian peasant, told me, who witnessed what happened during World War II. I would not now list individual examples of it, which clearly show who it was and what it was whose role it played during the war. I don't think it's a place for this pay phone, but once again, I warn you that what we socialists are talking about here is very important, because there is a danger that the Assembly will pass a law that is in collegiate with widely accepted world history. Please, we're playing with our credibility. At a time when all the institutions of this country are destroyed in our eyes, when they break down in the most brutal way, when the military and other institutions are broken, we must not allow the adoption of such laws to undermine the credibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10795	I thank Mr. Krstic. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10796	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, enough has been said about this article by my fellow MPs, and I think that in the best way they explained Zarko Obradovic, Misa Petronijevic, Rajko Baralić that this member should be deleted. These members are just being regulated as to who is exercising the right under this law. Those who fought the occupiers were granted the right 50 years ago, and today we should give that right to those who fought the NOP. It is true that the Partisans fought against Germans and Chetniks. It is also true that the Chetniks only fought against the Partisans and that is not disputed. That's what the sparrows on the branch know. It may have been possible to provide some right, but only for those who participated in the war, regardless of who they were fighting, so let's say they are Serbs. Recognising the right to privileges and their families will be the main reason for citizens to enter into discussions and disputes. We will not make reconciliation with this law, but we will quarrel with the citizens of Serbia. With this law, we will also introduce new practice in Serbia. If you work against the state, you'll be rewarded. If there's any need to defend the country, who's going to do it. In this war, those who fled the country during the bombing, those who called on NATO countries to bomb us and yet said what should be bombed. In the end, it's not snowing to just cover the hill, but to show everyone its mark, and the trail will show everyone who votes for this bill. Because of all this, the SPS will not vote for this law and therefore it is proposed that this member be deleted. At the very end, according to who will vote in this assembly, I must say that there are several types of coalitions in this room. A coalition that supports laws on the future and coalitions for the past and the end of Serbian history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10797	I thank Mr. Peric. This exhausted the debate on the amendment to Article 2. We move to Amendment 2, which was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10798	Mr Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have proposed on behalf of the SPS that Article 3 be deleted. It's a bill of this law, because it speaks of the Eastern Monument in 1941. I think that by establishing this monument, of course, it's the opposite of everything that happened in Serbia's Second World War, and it gives a distorted picture of the participation of members of those units during World War II. There are a dozen documents saying that members of these units did not want to actively engage in the fight against Germans and Italians. The more we talk about this, the more we show Serbia's public and prove a lot of cases, where the fight was in another plan. I have to say, at least when it comes to 1941, there's a lot of evidence that says what was the main goal of that movement. Sending a delegation from the Ravnog Movement headed by Major Misic Milan Nedic in early September 1941 with an offer for a joint fight against partisan. The sending of Colonel Pantic and Captain Mitrovica on 28 October 1941, Nedic and German Commander Madla from Abver to fight the partisan together, the already mentioned launch of an attack on the Partisans on October 31st, or on November 1st 1941. Draža Mihailovic's meeting with the Germans on November 11th in Divci, where bids for a common fight were repeated, ammunition sought and a statement was made that he would not fight the Germans, even if he was attacked. Even the commander of the movement or military, Draža Mihailovic, then apologized to the German combat officer led by other members of his army against the Germans, saying it was isolated incidents, cases that would not be repeated and cases resulting from his army's lack of discipline. So much as he thought of his army and the fight against the Germans. Then, the case of the inclusion of the first Montenegrin units, the escalator and the poževite squad, at the beginning of the second half of November 1941, in Nedic's Shumadian Corps, which was subordinated to the German commander of the 113rd Infantry Division, and involved in the attack on the Uži Republic. An order for the so-called legalisation of 30 November 1941 and the inclusion of nearly two-thirds of the equivalent units in the Quislin units, the components of Pecanac, Nedic and Ljotic, which were effective under German command. Non-resistance against the Germans during the attack on the Straight Mountain. I only mentioned cases for 1941. After all, the British and the Chetniks themselves, or members of these units, speak best of the movement in the information sent to the British command. I will mention here the letter from General Pejet, who was commander-in-chief of the Middle East of the Allied Army, the UK unit, which writes Mikhailovic – I know that your units under the command of Cvetić are fighting with the Germans. Or I'll mention here the second Kosovo Corps commander's document on the state of the Chetnik unit in Kosovo, and you'll see why I'm mentioning this. The Chetnik commander reports Draži Mihailovic: “Some Corpses participate with the occupier and ballistics in the fight against the Partisans. “ According to the more serious danger, as was the case in Ibra, that Ljoticevics, Nedicevics, the Arnautic Shuc police, Albanian police, Bulgarians, Germans and Javor Corps, were in one line, the mentioned Major Cvetic. “It has psychological repercussions on the people. In my opinion, we should work to get Germans, Ljoticians and others in the front lines, not our ranks. “ This report by the Chetnik commander, sent to his superior, is one of the siamese examples that says that their goal, first, only and foremost, was to fight against the Partisans, that is, how they spoke against the communists. The fight, the need to free the country, the fight against the occupiers was completely in the back of the plan. As a result, we feel that there is no monument to the Garden of 1941, nor is there any moral, especially historical justification for it. For this reason, on behalf of the SPS, along with my colleague Petronijevic, I suggested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10799	I thank Mr. Obradovic. Let me welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of the MPs, the guests, the students of the Faculty of Teachers, with the dean who are here with us today. Of course, I, and I trust you, would be more pleased to have them present when we are dealing with some law that deals with the future, not with the revision of the past, as Mr. Peric said, but what you will, they are future educators, so this is also important to them. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, "The Lifesaver Dacin, come in."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10800	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, honored and dear guests, MPs of the SPS, as all occasions speak, are the only ones who will be against the adoption of such a law. This is also an explanation of the fact that Dr. Zarko Obradović and Miso Petronijevic, in agreement with all of us, suggested that Article 3 be deleted from the proposed law. I must, first of all, say that it is clear to everyone that the political and programming position of the Socialists, the SPS, will always be on the sidelines of those who will fight for the freedom of their people, regardless of when this struggle happened, whether it was in 1941 or 1999, and in their country and for all those who fight for the freedom of their people, everywhere in the world. Members of the SPS, of course, will always be for reconciliation and tolerance of every species, and of course we, in communication with you and in political life, prove our actions. However, the explanation given by the promoter that the practical proposal and the adoption of such a law should lead to a general reconciliation, for general satisfaction, does not stand. I really don't know where the MPs of the National Assembly are staying in these three days, whether they're in their MP clubs and whether their phones keep ringing, as they do at the SPS Parliament Club where citizens call in their despair. I must tell you that there are also very serious political disappointments in terms of groups that have given confidence to those they thought would really defend the interests of the righteous. We've done it, and we'll always do it. However, if this is not about reconciliation, but about some of the new divisions that we need the least at this point, I will tell you that today one action is still being conducted across all of Serbia's municipalities. As a document, this morning I received a fax from the Society Committee of Kickinda, the Association of Fighters, signed by the secretary of Slavica Kecmen. Let me read it to inform you, because I have been very closely following the course in these three days and indeed no one has said it yet: "We inform you that the Municipal Committee of the NOR Fighters' Union collects the signatures of our members and citizens against the adoption of laws equating the rights of freedom fighters and occupiers. The signing process continues in Serbia's territory. In case the law is passed, Serbia's NOR fighters' union will ask President Tadic to annul it, and otherwise, collected signatures will be required to return the law to the assembly's re-debate. "Dear fellow MPs, this is not just signed by fighters, not only by pensioners, this is signed by citizens of Serbia. Let's think again about whether we need this. Did the promoter suggest it just because it's one of the party's programming orientations, which each of us has the right to do and is it the right time today? If we have not already dealt with all those legal proposals that stand in the congregation procedure, did we not want to mask a subject that is unfortunately very current and urgent? Today we want some acts to change history. She's unchangeable, no matter how much anyone likes her. She's inhumane because she stirs up different emotions in all of us, unfortunately, because of everyone she doesn't have, no matter what side they're on. Can we let it, in our souls, open the scars again? As accepted, we live and must move on. Let's leave history and history to be who it is. Let's not try to change it with such and similar bill proposals. Unfortunately, the SPS MPs have this satisfaction that they neither asked to discuss this bill nor would the only one remain to vote against its adoption. We really don't want any part of it. We're principled, and I'm asking you all to think this through again. There is a very acceptable solution, which is that the motionor can still withdraw from the procedure this law and indeed bring this painful debate to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10801	I would like to thank the People's MP, Long-a-Lowered Dacin. The People's Messenger Milorad Vucelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10802	This law violates one basic right of equality of the mark, i.e. The Partizan monument is placed in the same rank as the Keeper's Monument. Many people don't know that, the Partisan Monument wasn't assigned by the state. It was won in the fight against the enemy, in the fight against the occupiers and the Quislings, and the occupiers. It was decided by a fighting organization, where people knew who was in which battle, how and where they participated, was awarded as a great honor, and then from that monument received, in a democratic way, full of insight into battles and battles, certain rights were given on the basis of that monument. Only folk heroes, based on the same or more complex procedure, were declared by the congregation. In this way, the Ravnogora monument becomes a kind of cartoon, octroized monument, which has no democratic basis and thus is unfair to the Partizan monument, and not just for common reasons. So, you're going to have to look for a foothold, because there's no fighting with the Germans, because there's no such attacks, because there are no such conflicts, except at the very beginning, individual ones, you're going to have to look for some documentation, so I'm going to suggest a few documents, based on which perhaps those who suggested this kind of equality could withdraw this bill. Here, counselling in the Southeast Command on accepting Draža Mihailovic's urgent offer of co-operation, a German document. The offer for the negotiations of Draža Mihailovic foresees the following essential points: 1) the unconditional promise that no German soldier will be attacked by the Chetniks and the giving of hostages along with it; 2) the common fight against the communists in order to establish peace and order, the Germans and Chetniks do not have to be enemies; 3) the number one communists and all those who support them or do not cooperate in the fight against the communists; 4) Draža Mihailovic prays to attract the organisation of the Serbian Voluntary Corps and the organisation of the Voluntary Corps; 5) any link with the partisans is impossible; 6) in the event of invasion there is no fight against the Germans, the fight against the communists will be extended, the Chetsts want to prevent the involvement with the invasion troops. Lastly, Draža Mihailovic has nothing to do with the English. He doesn't even want to have any more, proper English attitude towards the Serb people. Perhaps this foundation will have to be sought in the revision of American views, which are best expressed in Major Lin Ferrisa's statement to the US Army, which he gave to Roosevelt in Tehran, which resulted in these consequences which were spoken of here, where, among other things, he said, "The Partisans have been constantly fighting our common enemy since the very beginning, while other factions have not fought." Or, on the other hand, they will have to seek a basis for such recognition in one of the publications given by Colonel Arsenijević, who was given it, which was given 12.4.944 years: "For Mr Milic Majstorivic, the second battalion commander of the Second Battalion of the Third Air Force, which is issued to him, so that he can move freely on his own or with his army on the ground, which is agreed with our allies – the Germans and Bulgarians and that, on behalf of King Peter II Karadjordjevic, he takes away all the requisition, slaughters all the partisan pillows and sympathisers, which will result in the rank of the majors". However, in addition to these activities, I would like to say that perhaps the promoter is looking for a basis in economic activity and luxuriant engagements of Chetnik and Chetnik movement. For example, in 17 July 1944, German documents said that Mr. Mihailovic in the past year was a generous grain liver, and said: "I will take it upon myself, along with General Felber, who received a copy of this letter and Vice-Secret Betner, to present the memo in the reference of Betner to Minister Reich Beke. Betner reported that during talks between Prime Minister Nedic and chief of the military administration, Rojhauzen, the first agreed to deliver 86,000 tonnes of grain and added that in a convenient manner he would take care of delivering this quantity. As he said, in recent years, under an agreement made in secret on co-operation with Draži Mihailovic and that he is being tolerated, he has been assured of the delivery. A similar solution could not be avoided this year." So, it's not right, it's not fair, it's not fair and it's not correct that because of these economic activities, luxuriant, market combinations of grain delivery to the Germans etc. Now he's assigning someone a monument. So far, the monument has been assigned to those who have fought the occupation and fascism, and now we see that it will also be because of the economic activities that have helped preserve the forces of the Vermacht and the occupation troops on this soil. It would be good for this amendment to be adopted, and even better for those who have proposed this law to withdraw.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10803	MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10804	This amendment should be accepted. The story we're having here and the debate about World War II is the story of all of us here in the O.R. and the story of our descendants and, unfortunately, the most common story about the victims of everyone who's been in this or that way involved in this Second World War. My story is interesting and similar to the stories of many. My grandfather was the bearer of the Partisan Monument in 1941. He was killed by the Chetniks on February 13, 1942, which is also the written trail of Pavel Đurisic, about which he met you directly yesterday by his colleague Vucelic, reading a report by Pavol Đurisic on what he did and how he acted under the command of the Supreme Command. If indeed, to the historic reconciliation, which I have no doubt, as far as I am concerned, the historic reconciliation took place at the time when, the grandson of the holder of the Partizan Monument in 1941, in this same hall, along with all of you here, voted to be the vice president of the Republika Srpska Assembly to be the grandson of Draža Mihailovic, a respected and respected colleague Vojislav Mihailovic. The status of the Montenegrin monument is slow because it is an analogy of the disputed status of the Montenegrin fighters. In accordance with Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill is proposed: “The “Employment of Ravnogorje in 1941” is established on which the right of persons who entered the provisions of the Ravnogorje Movement, i.e. the Yugoslav Army in the country, from 17 April 1941 to 31 December 1941. Its carriers are in everything equal with the bearers of the Partizan Monument in 1941. "You know, this term "stepped" reminds me of when you read in some biographies how someone was in law school. Did those who "stepped" into the ranks of the Ravnogore movement, i.e. the Yugoslav army in the country really fight the occupiers, do they commit crimes, we don't see that from the bill here. To begin an illustration of co-operation with the occupier and the real intentions and objectives of the Ravnogorje movement, allow me to read Draža Mihailovic's instruction, which he directed to the commanders of the Chetnic troops of the Yugoslav Army in Montenegro and the commander of the Lim Chetnic troops of the Yugoslav Army. "The command of the Chetnic squad of the Yugoslav Army, top secret 370, 20 December 1941. The goals of our Equality Squads are: 1st fight for the freedom of our entire people, under the script of his Majesty King Peter II; 2nd to create a great Yugoslavia and in it a great Serbia, ethnically clean, within the borders of Serbia, Montenegro, BiH, Srema, Banat and Backa; 3rd to clean state territory of all national minorities and non-national elements; 4. to create direct common borders between Serbia and Montenegro, as well as Serbia and Slovenia, to clean Sandzak from Muslim living and Bosnia from Muslim and Croatian living; 5th to end being cleansed from ethnic minorities and non-national elements to make the settlement of Montenegro (in the light of the coming poor, national, right and fair families); 6th to the communists can't be any co-operation, because they are fighting against the dynasty and for the achievement of the social revolution, which must never be our goal, because we are only one of the king and our freedom to fight. To live His Majesty King Peter II and to live our entire people. Signed, commander, General Staff General Dragoljub M. Mihailovic. "
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10805	The People's Messenger Misa Petronijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, with a proposal to delete that member for a number of reasons. First, the proposed amendment and addition of that law in Article 3 equates the rights of the holder of the Partizan Monument in 1941 and of the Equality Monument 41. Therefore, in the preceding article, these rights are established. I would like to remind myself, the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Family Members, the Serbian Law, is a social law and speaks of conditions under which rights of fighters can be used. The law on the basis of rights of fighters, military people with disabilities and members of their families, which has been brought to the federal level, which is applied in Serbia, speaks of the rights of fighters. For this reason and the rights of the fighters are included in social rights, the rights of the fighters give rise to conditions, and one law also stems from the rights of the fighter who stem from participation in the fight against the occupiers. The bearers of the Partizan Monument in 1941 are those who fought the occupiers, in order for someone to have a equivalent monument to have to first establish historically that they were fighting the occupiers. For the third time I repeat, it is stated in the explanation as evidence of eight major occupation offensives, I ask that the allegations that these fights were because, I repeat, there are no dilemmas for us. The historical truth has been established. Whoever's questioning her can make a correction the way she does, historians do it, history institutes, history departments of the Academy of Sciences, so let them see if that's not true. If it's not true, what is true, then only then can they come to the order of social laws. I'm saying this for a reason, because here you can see the essence. The point is to equalise the two movements, the people's liberation movement and the Equality Movement. The assembly can do this by force, by the number of votes, but it will not be historically subdued, it will not be historic truth, and that means that the Assembly will one day come before the court of history. We didn't provoke anyone, and we were just looking for evidence and nothing else. We warned, this law will not, this change of law, close the door to hate and divide in Serbia. On the contrary, they will open them. We have nothing to do with it. We didn't ask for this, we didn't ask for this debate, we didn't ask for this law. The law will only open new hatreds, new divisions that Serbia does not need, and Serbia is tired of dividing. They've made us into Democrats and Anti-Democrats, European-oriented and anti-European-oriented, whether soldiers on Topcider were killed or not. Every day so many divisions have to be closed, not opened. This opens those divisions. There's no need for me to be at peace with anyone, no one I'm in a fight with, and I'm not in a conflict, and we can't make peace with those 60 years ago. What we can do is make laws in the interests of citizens and respect history. If someone is questioning her, there is a way that historical facts can be considered again, searched and corrected. This is just how history is revised, this is how new hatreds are created, new divisions are created, and we, against it, strictly respect the 1998 Serbian Parliament declaration, which we unanimously adopted in the Serbian Parliament, to leave everything to history, we turn to unity, we turn to Serbia's future. For these reasons, we asked for this member to be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10807	I thank Mr. Petronievich. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Otherwise, I am convinced that historical facts cannot change, and laws change. As the congregation's majority changes, the laws change, and the medals stand at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10808	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of this law, MPs Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic have submitted an amendment to delete Article 3 and an argument that gives us the right to believe that we can get your support as well. I would like to say, as before, not all the Chetniks were the same, and I am taking the opportunity to point out this occasion by Captain Dragic Markovic, commander of the Takovska company of the first Ravish Battalion of the First Ravno-Greek Corps. In the area of responsibility, his unit has never suffered any Serb patriotism. So much for the truth. So, with a full name and a last name, unfortunately, he's one of the victims of what's called a trial by accelerated procedure. You'll never hear me say something that doesn't have a cover, because in the Takave-mining area they know how honorably this honorable king Chetnik officer was held. That is what I want to say, because of many people who have waited for World War II to live, but Captain Dragic Markovic is only one of the honorable exceptions. For this opportunity, I just want to mention two documents. One letter from the head of the Yugoslav refugee government's military mission in Italy, on 4 November 1944, to British Colonel Triblog on problems and difficulties and on the entry of military personnel into the People's Liberation Army, signed by General Staff Colonel Zivan I. Knezevic. Just one short sentence, and it's November 1944, when the war was just about to end: "I am taking the liberty, Colonel, to expose my personal view of the future work of General Mihailovic. I think that Draža and the army should remain unconditionally in the mountains, as they have so far, not to fight against the Russians and allies, but to destroy the Partisans until the last." No comment. I hope you don't either. In 1942, Colonel Draža Mihailovic wrote a letter to inform Bulgarian Major Flanne Andon: “As is known, the famous Bulgarian army, whose occupation troops participate in World War II and Serbia, and whose attitude I have no objections... “ I don’t want to read any further. I ask all the MPs from around the Major and from other places if there is a more terrible crime than the ones the Bulgarian fascists committed in Majornik. As it is possible, gentlemen, that there are such documents, that there are facts, and that there are victims, both employers and complicity, and that we are talking about it in a completely different way here. For this and many other reasons, I am fully convinced that what you have tried to do and what I am experiencing as an act of both legal and historical violence, although legitimately, because it encourages in a law-based way, as you have proposed the law, I believe it does not contribute to anything, that it complicates the situation and that it simply forces each of us to do what must be done under these circumstances. I want to say quite in the end, it's not true, because in 1944, the People's Liberation Army numbered 800,000 people, it's not true that it was 800,000 communists. It was also done by the people of about 49,000 communists in 1944, which is important to know and understand, and to talk about it as appropriate. What I'm saying is, no great historical process is possible until young people, until the youth of one country and one nation, or because of a great idea and great propaganda, support one such process. You've had such an experience recently, but the connotation is quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10809	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10810	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of the Law that speaks of the 11th Monument in 1941, and I have suggested that this member of the law be deleted for reasons that there is no legal, historical and any other basis, except for the political needs of a parliamentary group, to establish something that history has already condemned. I'm not saying this by accident. In recent days, we were literally, by very many people from all over Serbia, showered with a lot of documents that talked about everything that happened during World War II at the premises of the former SFRY, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In the abundance of these documents, black and white, it is evident that the Ravnogor movement, the Royal Army in the country, did not fight against the Germans and Italians during World War II, against the occupiers of our country. Its only and main goal was to fight against the Partisans, to fight against the communists, as they called them, to establish a monarchy. Of course, this law is not even legally possible, because in order to be legally possible, it is necessary to renew the judicial process that ended in 1946, when it was tried by General Draža Mihailovic, and on the basis of the renewed court process to carry out other legal actions, but the promoter does not care. With the kindness of a large number of people, we have received a lot of documents saying that the Ravnogore movement was not an anti-fascist movement and that it did not fight the fascists. I'll also mention the letter we received from the Division of Fighters of the 29th Herzegovic Strike Division of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia. I'll talk about their data later. Then, we got the data from the Truth Society about the anti-fascist People's Liberation Fight in Yugoslavia. But what it looked like and what the battle of the Chetniks looked like was also an example of a pleasure ending. By courtesy of Mr. Bosnic Milovana yesterday we received a book from Gojko Škara, a publicist, entitled "The Truth Is In Names", who died in the Užičko County in World War II. The whole book, apart from the preface, is a dry picture of the facts, of everything that happened during World War II at the premises of that neighborhood, so I'm going to read to you what it was like to be called "the fascist struggle by the Chetnic units." In 1941, a total of 746 people were shot by the Serbian gendarmes and Nedicevics, as they were part of the Corps. This is about the people who were shot by the Chetniks, the captured partisans that the Chetniks handed over to the Germans and the faces who were killed by the Chetnik outlaw groups after the release of the enjoyous end. A total of 1,974 people were killed throughout the region between 1941 and 1950, as some apostate groups had held back until then. It was an anti-fascist contribution to these fighting units. I have to say, unfortunately, history is cruel and this law can't change anything here, except political points, cheap political points, because all that's done at the expense of history is cheap and short-term. The promoter won't get anything. It is a pity that the assembly speaker is not full today, since apparently other political parties are avoiding a debate on this important issue. They avoid, both those parties who are supporters or under the ideology of Chetnya, who received the votes of the Partisans and others who are declared democratic, and support the debate and will certainly vote on a law that enlarges a co-borationist movement during World War II. There are plenty of data that say that the Chetniks during World War II avoided fighting, co-operated with the Germans, co-operated with the Italians, and their main goal was to fight against the Partisans, or communists. For this reason, we have suggested that this member of the law, which speaks of the Eastern Monument in 1941, be deleted because there is no basis for such a thing. For someone to receive a monument in 1941, he could have wanted to join the fight, and the winners of the Partisan Monument were the people who fought from 1941 to 1945, constantly. Not even King Peter's appeal to be involved in the NOP units has brought fruit to some people. It's a little bit known, but I'll mention it because it's historical data, about 70% of the members of those units have joined the NOP units at the invitation of King Peter, and they've all received rights as well as other NOP fighters. I therefore believe that there was no basis for this bill, for this member of the law and on behalf of the SPS, along with my colleague Petronijevic, I suggested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10811	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10812	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPS amendment, the MPs Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Milisav Petronijevic submitted the amendment to the proposed text of the law. I think the argument they offered is enough for the amendment to be accepted. What I'm trying to say is that I'm amazed at the structure of the coalition that supports this proposed text of the law, which provided the quorum. This is where it's practically bonded almost incompatible. Some, in order to give consent to this, have received different guarantees, some have received various accommodations, so I want to ask – how and under what circumstances is Mr Mojovic, the husband of Gorica Mojovic, elected the other day as editor-in-chief of "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? It's a republican institution and there's a majority coalition holding power. I have various answers to different questions, you trade, you score, you set up. You need to define yourself, gentlemen. Once you take the quorum of these, you take one of those. Identify yourself who you're doing what you're doing. If you're distasteful at our services, say, nothing is disputed. Just say clearly that you are understood by the citizens of Serbia and each of us here. Differently intonated statements yesterday you made a whole series of mistakes. You sent some people back to where they were born. I remind you that the police minister, BIA chief and chief inspector of Serbia's MUP were also born in Montenegro, and many others -- "whoever is lying to the sword can die from it". We want to know what we're involved in, what we support, what is your concept, what is the platform, what are your economic policy measures, what laws are we going to have? We want you to keep us off the agenda every day by ten laws. For the third time, you will remove the postal service law and many others. We want to work clearly and consistently, to know what's ahead of us, that it doesn't look like a local congregation meeting and that we know today in the next three months what laws we're talking about. We ask you to help us with this because we are expected by the citizens of Serbia. So we ask you to withdraw this law from the procedure while there is still time. We will prove at various levels of some other authority that he is legally impossible, nor will anyone under this law exercise any right that you have guaranteed him of what you wrote in the text proposal. Therefore, there is time, the motionor needs to stand up and say – I am withdrawing the law from the procedure. Still can, it provides him with the Rules of Procedure, because the law was not proposed because of it, the law had to check something else, try to provide something else. Take care, it's small Serbia, but it's a big and deep historical memory.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10813	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Mr. Omerovic, whether Mr. Tadic will sign or not. He wouldn't sign a law on the National Assembly, this one would definitely sign, don't worry, because his MPs voted for this bill to be on the agenda. The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10814	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, there are a lot of things in the bill that are in collegiate with widely accepted history, as we have already observed. In particular, it is a symptomatic explanation that the promoter gives and has a lot of discussional things, at the very least, things that distort official history. There are even some things that are funny. I will read to you just one piece from the argument on page five: "The historical truth is that Western allies, under the orders of Tito and his command, and with the aim of destroying national forces and preparing for the triumph in the country war, during 1944, bombed Belgrade and increasing cities in Serbia-Montenegro." It turns out Tito and the Supreme Command of the Partisan Army had such power that they could command the American Air Force, etc. In this context, our Western allies during the Second World War, too, very badly connoted. I don't think it's a good idea to comment this way on the facts that are historically defined. In this law, it is said that it aims to make national reconciliation. Please, there is no national reconciliation by passing a law on pensions and rights, i.e. rights of fighters, disabled people, etc. – national reconciliation is done in a different way. By the way, I have to say, it seems that in this country, national reconciliation only requires political oligarchies. The people have long been nationally reconciled to one another. I think that today's ordinary people, which means 99.9% of citizens, don't worry about whose grandfather was a partisan or whose grandfather was a Chetnik. They have far more important problems and more difficult life problems than dealing with such things. That's why it's so much more illogical that some of the foreign divisions are trying to re-enact. There are divisions among other peoples. Take, for example. Frenchmen, we all know that during World War II in France there were members or Frenchmen who were on the side of Marshal Petten, or occupiers and those who were on the side of the resistance movement, or General De Gaulle. Of course there was no problem. The war is over and things have continued some of their normal course. We keep insisting on these divisions. Instead, when we find ourselves as a country and as a people in very difficult historical moments, to forget those earlier divisions and to focus on common forces to save what can be saved, we, as a rule, insist on those divisions further. In Serbia, they divided the Karadjevics, the craftsmen, the partisans and the Chetniks, and we are now dividing ourselves into Democrats and Democrats, so those who are for Europe, who are not for Europe, etc. All these divisions go hand in hand to those we can freely call our enemies. Unfortunately, it is very easy for our people to see the fact of the Latin proverb "vidive et Ipera", which means "distribute so rule". I think laws like this are counterproductive. It doesn't contribute to any national reconciliation, it only refreshes the old divisions. What we want to forget, to overcome, this is how it is re-enacted, and I think that these laws and things exactly please those who want this country to get even stronger on its knees, as if we're not already in enough material, economic, political and other opportunities, but now we need to re-emerge some things that history has already forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10815	I thank the People's Messenger, Svetislav Krstic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 13. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted together. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. I suggest that Article 15 of the law be deleted for the following reasons. First, if we take a closer look at both this member and the essence of all the changes, it can be seen, and the change of this member confirms that the bill is by substance and intent essentially a revision of history, because it goes so far that the rights of the law apply also to convicted by judicial power. Article 35 of the basic law, which is amended, reads: "The law provided for by this law does not have NOR fighters convicted by a judicial verdict because of the participation of the occupiers and his assistants... (and don't take any more time). During the People's Liberation War, a participant in earlier wars took part in enemy formations cannot exercise the right under this law, nor can members of the family of these persons. A person who, on the basis of amnesty and pardonation, is deprived of the legal consequences of the conviction, may exercise the right under this law at the earliest of the first day of the following month after the adoption of acts on amnesty or pardon. The rights under this law cannot even be exercised by members of the families of the dead NOR fighters and participants of earlier wars who themselves participated in enemy formations. “ All of this is deleted, and instead it says: “All the rights provided for by this law (as the Proposer asks) apply to all members of the NOR, regardless of whether they were condemned by the judicial verdicts that they participated in the struggles against the partisan forces of the People's Liberation Army and the Yugoslav Army,” and they were skipped by the struggles on the part of the occupiers. Is this so controversial? Should those who are convicted of judicial judgments also exercise these rights? Isn't this, in addition to the history review, and the revision of all court decisions from 1944 to today? Is it not more right to initiate proceedings, to annul or to change, if there are arguments for this, all the rulings of the Supreme Court, the military Supreme Court, and on the basis of this rehabilitation, and only these social laws that are proposed? Isn't it transparent that through the social law these audits are carried out? One more question. What's going on with article 74? The Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Members of Their Families, from which rights of fighters originate, as well as interference for the acquisition and use of rights, which is otherwise not changed by the Proposal of this Act, and where the clear provision of point 3 stands – persons convicted by a judicial verdict for participating in a war on the part of the occupier or his assistants, as well as persons convicted by a judicial verdict for war crimes cannot exercise these rights. What law will apply there? In fact, I warn the Assembly that there are insurmountable constitutional, legal and judicial problems, which must be resolved previously, that all judgments of all courts from 1944 to today should be annulled and only then come to social law. And this is saying that it wasn't the essence of exercising social rights to anyone who had the right under the law on the fundamental rights of fighters. The point is to review history and all court decisions. For these reasons, we have suggested that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10817	I thank Mr. Petronievich. The People's Messenger Zvonko Stevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10818	Madam Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, on the amendment submitted by the SPS, i.e. fellow MPs Dr Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic to Article 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, allow me for the sake of the public to read the proposed text of Article 15. "All the rights provided for by this law apply to all members of the NOR, regardless of whether convicted by a judicial verdict that they participated in the struggles against the Partisan troops of the Yugoslav Army's People's Liberation Army." Why do we and our fellow MPs suggest that this member be deleted? It is unsustainable and it is legally impossible to impose a provision in the proposal for this law that provides for certain persons to enjoy all the rights provided for by this law – whether condemned by a judicial verdict because they participated in the struggles against the partisan forces of the People's Liberation Army and the Yugoslav People's Army – because the basic law on the rights of fighters provided for certain rights to be enjoyed by members of the Partisan National Liberation Army troops who fought in the People's Liberation War in these areas for the freedom of the Serb people against the fascist occupation coalition. This is also questionable from a legal point of view, because it is almost impossible for persons convicted by judicial verdicts to in some way amnesty at a small door to be held responsible for the actions they have done. Such a possibility would exist only if the renewal of judicial proceedings, in which these persons would be the release of responsibilities, would be approached. However, it is illogical that such a procedure could be authentically carried out, or legally valid, since it has been about 60 years and now there are very few living witnesses who would be involved in the restoration of court proceedings. Also, this law does not provide for a proof procedure, which would provide for a way of proving the participation of the Montenegrin fighters in the anti-fascist and liberating struggle of the Serb people. It is unacceptable that the law, without the renewal of the court procedure, amnesty of convicted persons, would thus disavow judicial authority as a special and independent branch of the government and would result in the collapse of the entire legal system. On the other hand, the legislators of the law have been harassing the international community for several years back that they have witnessed and proven fighters to preserve the integrity of the Serbian state, who fight against terrorism, Albanian terrorism, are delivering to The Hague tribunal. That is why it is absurd to advocate reconciliation of members of the Partisan units and the Chetnik movement, while at the same time defending the most monstrous Satanisation of people only because they belonged to the Socialist Party and fought with honor for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Serbia against terrorism and criminals of Albanian terrorism. Therefore, the SPS and fellow MPs propose to delete the mentioned Article 15 of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10819	I hope Mr. Food Peric agrees to give the lady a head start. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10820	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that for the SDP, this amended Article 35 is controversial, which appears in the new law as Article 15: “All the rights provided for in this law apply to all members of the NOR, regardless of whether they have been condemned by the judicial verdicts that they participated in the struggles against the Partisan departments of NOVA and I. “ Previously, in a law that changed, “the law provided for by this law did not condemn the NOR fighters to judicial judgments for participating on the part of the occupiers and their assistants against the Partisan squads of the New and Partisan squads of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav Army and the Allies of Yugoslavia. “ Why is he slow? It's mostly from a moral point of view, because it's kind of amnesty for those who have committed crimes, but it's mostly disputed from a legal point of view, because you can't rule with some courts, so you called them communists, those were the only courts in this country that existed at the time, that you were changing in an unfair way. Therefore, in order for them to be changed, it is necessary, in accordance with the applicable Criminal Law, to repeat the proceedings and possibly acquittals, to implement rehabilitation. You can't even relativize and completely undo those decisions that these communist courts made because they were making decisions that, I repeated in my previous speeches, were like the one that the commander of the air, when the bombed Belgrade, General Ler, was sentenced to the death penalty, as well as many Ustasha criminals. So, if you don't recognize these decisions concerning the soldiers of the Ravnogorski Movement, which has been proven to have committed crimes, then you have to disqualify all other decisions. We believe that because of this, it was completely wrong in this form to predict this law, that it was about rights and pensions, because it was much more meaningful for us to carry out a kind of reconciliation that would really make sense. I'm so afraid we're still having a pointless debate that can get us into trouble with the current laws of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10821	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've already heard my colleagues explain this member, he couldn't possibly accept it, because he's very controversial, but if we replace the courts with the assembly, then by raising two fingers we can make any judgments. It is disputed that all rights provided for by the basic law on the rights of fighters are extended to a circle of persons convicted of judicial judgments for participation in the fight against the Partisan NOVA squads. The bill does not stipulate who cannot achieve the status of a fighter. Many cases have been solved before our courts. Many people who have not had the works done have been freed and that is a minor problem. Will you recognize the rights of those who have been condemned and who have endured punishment? I have one question, it happened and in practice, after 45 years, those who have had a lot of crimes against our people have been brought to trial and received a death sentence. Whether or not they will be posthumously decorated by the unequal monument of 41st year, given that they have had a large number of crimes. Should it also be specified, to separate the wheat from the weeds, if there was any grain, or to put it all in one basket? Article 15 states - all the rights provided for in this law apply to all members of the NOR, regardless of whether they were convicted by a judicial ruling that they participated in the fight against the NOV squad and I. This means that only those who fought against the New Year's Eve are exercising their right. Nowhere in the law is it written that the right to exercise and have those Chetniks who fought the occupiers. When this is suggested, a conclusion can be drawn against whom the Chetniks fought. It is still in this article that those who have been convicted have the right, which means that this congregation has begun to judge and take over the functions of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10823	I thank the People's MP, Hrenat Peric. The word has a folk MP, Dr Zarko Obradovic, and then a National MP, Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, along with counterpart Petronijevic, on behalf of the SPS, I have suggested that this member of the law be deleted because it is a very important member of the law that tries to amnesty all those crimes, including criminals, committed during World War II by members of the NOP. I am talking about members of the NOP that included members of the Ravnog Movement who accepted King Petar Karadjordjevic's appeal in September 1944, who agreed to fight the NOP against fascists, i.e. Germans, Italians. It is interesting to suggest that the rights arising from participation in World War II have a bearing on the judicial decisions of law, or judgments found to have been committed. This is about the proposaler's intention to make all the bad things that individuals have done, to become part of some general, positive story. It is interesting, and that is to say, that at the invitation of King Petar Karadjordjevic in September 1944, a large number of members of the Royal Army joined the NOP Yugoslavia and participated in further fighting for the release of Yugoslavia. But it is also true that then, or after World War II, some of them were also found to have committed crimes. This member of the law wants to hide these crimes, and the criminals want to amnesty. The documents we received preparing for this item of the agenda make it very clear what certain members of these units were doing, or what certain movements were doing. For example, in the depecia of 1943, the commander of these units, Draža Mihailovic, ordered his units - not to hesitate to attack communists in the back, even when they attack occupation garrisons to prevent them from reaching weapons. Or in the January 1944 report, Cvetic, a mentioned Chetnik commander, informs Draž Mihailovic that they have captured 16 Partisans and slaughtered them without court. I'm going to mention here, as an example of those crimes that want to be amnested by this article and this law, the report of the Third Brigade, so on. The Mountain Guards, about events that took place in the Forest in 1944. Very taxing: "Tuesday, April 11, 1944, the village of Dubon – shot six faces of communist flocks and burned two houses of communist flocks; on April 12th – today they are firing communist flocks; April 13, Dubona, Vlaška – shooting four communist flocks; April 15th, Dublin – liquidated Tihomir Avramović, a communist flock, which was an active communist; May 2nd – the burned house of Vitomir Savić from Dublin, because his son, Milisav, was not going to respond to the call for an exercise, but fled to the communists; he was captured by partisan Milutin Maric, will be liquidated; on June 22nd 1944, Mali Pozrevac - shot 12 people who were suspected as communists, the shooting was carried out a hunting brigade; on June 26th 1944 – the shooting three of the communists caught or killed in the other population, where they were told the other party in the latter. In fact, the Chetniks themselves spoke of the crimes they committed. It's just a small part of the crimes committed. A proposer of this law and this member is trying to amnesty. I also have to mention something that happened in November 1941, when the Chetniks handed over to the Germans in Valjev 365 captured Partisan fighters and those fighters were shot. In itself, it best paints the character of that movement. There is a lot of evidence, unfortunately, of what happened in our country's premises in 1941 and crimes committed by Chetniks. This member of the law wants to amnesty and equalize the rights of all those people, honest people, who have fought for the freedom of their country and who have died, so the rights, on this basis, are taken by members of their families, and those who have committed crimes, and they would like members of their families to enjoy these rights, which is immoral. For that reason, we MPs of the SPS have suggested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10825	The word is made by MP Bojan Kekic, and then by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10826	Dear fellow MPs, I haven't been able to attend yesterday afternoon's session and the beginning of today's session. Don't think I won't talk about the amendment. Today was the meeting of SO Fireman, where organs were to be established. For the past three months, SO Požarec has not worked for one simple reason – that the G17 parliamentary group plus did not give the necessary majority, i.e. did not support the proposal of the president of the Assembly of the DSS Slavoljub Matic, so that we came into the situation to be a road map, or 34:34 and that, for that reason, today MP Slavoljub Matic resigns. The overall political picture seen in Pozarevec, where the Socialists received a convincing majority of mayors and had senior councilors, has come into the situation that local government is not working, because the political scene of Serbia, or political miles of political parties, is not consistent in its principled views. This law would not even be on the agenda, because we do not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we do not have the opinion of the official committees, but we are in a position to discuss for two or three days the law that represents, first of all, a violent policy for it to be voted on, calling, first of all, on certain deadlines. I don't know who set the deadline for this to be until January 1, 2005, because in 2005, 60 years of victory over fascism is celebrated. Proposers have succeeded in providing most of the trades to vote on the agenda and will likely succeed in some future trade. The SPS is exclusively against this law, for one basic reason – which is the excerpt, first of all, history, which is the law so quickly, without any talks, without the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without round tables, without historians, above all, came to this debate and allowed MPs with their argument to come out and speak. The violation, first of all, of the principles of legality and everything else, is that in Article 15. The bill, which applies to Article 35, wants to equalise all members of the NOR, regardless of the judicial verdict. This law should abolish the entire legal order that came into existence after 1945- 1946. So, the point is that those persons who have committed war crimes, regardless of which side, if they were on some side, are also being amnested, as counterpart Obradovic said. I also believe that MPs – the proposings have convinced themselves that this law has a series of shortcomings, that it is not well prepared. The withdrawal of this law would certainly contribute not only to this institution being stable, but also to all other institutions in the local environments. All these political agreements between individual political parties are being re-painted at our political level. Here, the SPS, which has always advocated the formation of institutions, seems to have to enter the Pozharevc coalition with only for the sake of certain facts – which most in the National Assembly did not respect as a coalition in the local environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10827	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Mr. Bojan Kekic has concerns that an antifascist password will be exclaimed on May 9th in the next year, instead of May 13th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10828	I will vote for this law if Vuk Draskovic goes to the Straight Mountain on May 9th. He shouldn't have done it this year. He was ordered not to come. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to article 15 was submitted on behalf of the SPS, Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. Everything we've been saying here today is clear arguments and they're in favor of the law either being withdrawn or not being adopted if there's a elemental logic. Since there is an unscrupulous political and coalition logic, then perhaps it will be possible. Let's remind the citizens of Serbia that this session has begun. By the quorum for the start of the session was given by the MPs, colleagues from the DS parliamentary group. How should it be voted? By voting for the law by fellow MPs from the SRS. In addition, of course, we have a hypocritical position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does not know what this is about and the explicits have not spoken out on the proposed text of the law. When you take a closer look at what this is about, then you see that the law in the procedure is like a fruit of different speculations, political calculations and blackmail. I'm just reminding you, in order for this bill to be voted, it has to be 126 in the O.R. Try to count them carefully today, try to count them carefully, hard, very hard. A new session cannot begin until this law is passed. Take good care of what you do, don't scare anyone with a solution, because you can scare yourself. Serbian citizens should know that this law, the proposed legal text, is not the product of any political need of this coalition, but is the product of the political need of one or two political parties, and the rest of them have been embezzled in a way that is not principled and does not suit their political concept or implementation. We did not advocate that the fluids of Anglo-Saxon law apply to those who participated in the last war, for which others advocated, so according to the currents of that law, anyone who was in any state function in this country is subject to the interest of Carla del Ponte and so on. The Hague tribunal. You're doing the opposite thing with this law. Is there, ladies and gentlemen, a command responsibility for the commander of the movement, for the commanders of the Corps, for the commanders of the battalion, for the Equality Council, for the Equality Committee, for Dragis Vasic? Is there, ladies and gentlemen, a command responsibility for the refugee government abroad and for His Majesty the late King Peter II Karadjordjevic? Whether there is a command responsibility or command responsibility becomes current only when it is appropriate to deal with your political opponents. You don't have a consistent policy, you don't know what you're doing. It's our job to explain that you're not doing what you're doing in a way that should be present here. I read a document every time I heard it, connecting the Equality Movement with one of the blackest military organizations that fought in this country during World War II. In front of me is a brief document and is signed by Draža Mihailovic, which gives authority to Captain Bogdanovic to maintain ties to the Ustasha battle command in Gracanica. "The authority of the infantry captain Bogdanovic Dobrivoj, which is being referred to as my maintainer of ties with the commander of the battle at Gracanica, Lieutenant Abrahum Kapetanovic. This link is the only one that will be kept in touch until further notice between the signed and Lieutenant Capt. Kapt.ovic, until it is changed in another way, will not be used on either side. Captain Bogdanovic (respectful gentlemen) will make sure that our good relations with our brothers at every opportunity are only improved." What are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10829	I'll take care of the weather, almost six minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10830	That's right, Mr. President. What are we talking about here, the Ustasha battlefields, the Bulgarian fascists, the open and clear co-operation, the alliance with all who were against 800,000 freedom fighters in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10831	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger Milorad Vucelic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10832	Dear President, honourable MPs, just to look at the command responsibility, which Mr Baralic spoke of and to get the public to know one basis for today's current policy, at least when it comes to foreign affairs ministers or some of our other state authorities, as they showed flexibility and a tendency to co-operate with Anto Pavelic, on April 15, 1945. As you can see, the time correctly observed, exactly when it should, only 25 days before the fall of fascism. Writes Draža Mihailović Anti Pavelic, and says: “Dear Mr. Ranko Brasic, I am grateful for the notifications you made to me about the result of your talks with Excellency (and that is Pavelic Ante) in order to lead a joint fight against partisans. The special acts presented to you along with this letter contain the necessary decisions regarding the completion of these talks and the conclusion of a desired arrangement. It is my desire to address this letter with the sole question of the proposal made by the Excellency for my personal visit and the direct editing of this work, and I ask you nicely to be kind and to Excellency (i.e. Introduce Ante Pavelić to his contents. First of all, I ask you to thank the Excellency on my behalf, i.e. Anti Paveliæ’. And that after Jasenovac, and after 600,000 dead, and after the City Hall, and after the caves, and after the Prebilovci and after Jovan Ducic knew it in 1942 in America, writing his book Dispute Questions of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Thus, in the United States, he knew, Jovan Ducic, how many Serbs were killed and that number states, and that book was published here in two editions. One is "I believe in God and Serbia" and the other is "The Dispute Issues of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia" etc. “At the same time (shown), saying the contents of this letter to the Excellency, I ask you to give him my respect and care for his safety, etc.” However, on the same date, so on April 15, 1945, an even more interesting letter was sent from the top command of the Chetnic movement, a letter to Alojzi Stepinc: “Topping over Serbia and other Serbian provinces, the communist wave has been clapping for some time also those provinces that are inhabited by the Croatian people. It is expanding more and more in the last few days, threatening to flood those ends the same way as it was in the past year with Serbian landscapes. During the first audience that the bringers of this letter did, I had the honor and opportunity to inform this of your sublimeness. Regardless of all the moments and circumstances that could share us (and this is Jasenovac, Gradiška, caves, slaughter, genocide of the Serb people, Kozara, that is, what could have been shared but not shared), I consider it my duty (meaning that it is his duty to cross over the 800 to 1,000 victims of Serbians, and slaughter and pogroms unremembered in Europe, otherwise leveled by Auschwitz and by horrors more horrifyingly) to ask your excellency to exercise all your influence and all your efforts in order to activate all the national forces of the Croatian people in the fight against betters. By giving you this request, I want to believe that your sublimeness, following in the footsteps of your great predecessors, will respond to all those historical duties and tasks that are set before your excellency in today's difficult times, because from the proper understanding of these duties and tasks on the part of your sublimeness, will depend on the place which the history of Christianity will assign to you, and especially the Croatian people your sublimeness." As we can see, Draža Mihailovic has been anticipating the role Alojzije Stepinac has won. He was beatified, then declared a saint. We see that he took advice in the fight against Bolshevism, the advice that his role depends on it, he went on to do so, and he was also tried for it, but we see who cares about the touching and who should then be compared as it says in the explanation, with the Ustashas and co-operation with Ustashas, whether someone else or the Chetnik movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10833	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10834	It is obvious that this amendment is essentially about changing the history of World War II. What is most important for us in this house, which is the highest legislative authority, is that this part of Article 15 that is deleted by an ex-member of this 35th law is legally impossible. The Proposer wants the rights of the fighters to be extended to that circle of persons convicted by judicial verdicts for participating in the fight against the partisan forces of the People's Liberation Army and not only against them but also against those who fought the allies of the same army in World War II. In fact, if this were to be accepted then an opportunity would be opened to say that in a few months someone realized that perhaps King Peter's appeal from Second Karadjordjevic's from London would be annulled, as he is not willing either. It may occur to someone that this same home has annulled AVNOJ's decisions since 1943, because it is not, for example, at the request of the promoter. It is inadmissible to repeal the judicial verdicts that were in force until a certain period. The lawyers know that better than I do. I'm not a lawyer. A process review can be carried out, the process can be renewed, but I deeply believe that there is no court, including a court that may have made one of the motions, which, under the law and law, could free some of the representatives of the Ravnogore Movement for Crimes and Crimes that they have committed, even in the greatest part and according to their own people. What is it, what was the move, testifies and orders sent to the Chetniks by the commanders after the talks of the Chetnik delegations with the German representatives. "Notify all our troops and commanders of the company who are at the house of Rogatica that today, January 15, 1942, the delegates of the Serb Chetniks of Bosnia held talks with the German and Italian commanders in Visegrad. The results are positive. Chetniks and Germans will have no conflict, nor can these conflicts be. Our Chetniks have to stay in the former places and duties or wherever the need arises. Don't let the communists be around you, persecute them and show them to the Germans. According to the German army, be correct. Don't let any incident happen with the German army. The passage of the German troops is free and does not harm the interests of our struggle. "In the signature of Lieutenants Bolvan, Antonic and Jovanovic. Another example is the beginning – and the end was told by the previous speaker Vucelic in letters that Mihailovic sent to the representatives of the most Croatian government on 10 August 1942. It is said – The Commander of the Eighth Infantry Regiment, for the German command – "We report to you that we agree to all the conditions that you have set and that we are pleased that the German military force has taken command of Croatian homeland, legion, arms, Ustashas and civil authorities, because this is the best sign that it will take a better and fairer path. As far as the Croatian army is concerned, it has been correct to date and we Chetniks have complete confidence in it. We also have full confidence in the German military force and are willing to cooperate fully with it, only if our lives and assets are provided. No case of attacks on our part against the German army has been recorded to date, not only in Majevica, but in all of Bosnia, and we guarantee that this will not happen in the future. "In signature, commander, Duke of Mayan Radivoje Kerovic. Do we, dear fellow Members of Parliament, want this member of the law and this possibility proposed by the promoter to exercise all rights as well as those who have fought the occupiers, as well as those who have fallen in the fight against the occupier? It remains on all of us in a day or year to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10835	The law certainly does not apply to residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's quite clear. Please continue our work after 15.00 hours. The next one will have Brance Stojanovic's word on this amendment. [[After break – 15,20]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our afternoon work. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 85 MPs are present in the O.R. and we have a quorum to work on. Please, on the subject of amendments by Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic, Brance Stojanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10837	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic have submitted an amendment to Article 15 with a desire to withdraw him, such as the wish of all of us from the SPS, with the argument that we are always presenting to the MPs of the Republic Assembly and the public of Serbia, that this law should be withdrawn. Schlagworth for my reporting on this amendment has just given me Mr. Zarko Obradovic, quoting the data he has, is related to the reports of the Chetnic Command. The village of Comrade is mentioned. I must, for the sake of the public, supplement this report in some way, given that Comrade is a small village in the Smederjeva municipality, which died on 29 April 1944 in a terrible Chetnik massacre. What Mr. Zarko Obradovic presented as data differs to some extent. I said it was Chetnik command reports. In Drovec, not slaughtered and burned partisans, nor communists, but ordinary people, peasants who only blamed what they kept from 1941 until the end of the war to Mrs Bulin Baruch. To remind myself, it is the mother of the Baruch brothers' folk heroes, a poor old woman, a pre-war professor from Belgrade, whose daughter was, among other things, shot by Germans in 1941 in Belgrade. As a confirmation of why we in the SPS all the time, and what we're trying to insist on, that by passing this law, there won't be any reconciliation, I'd like to present one fact and, in some ways, to ask the question and the gentlemen of the promoters, i.e. SPO, and colleagues who are not with us here - the SRS. In the last election in the village mentioned, these two parties won. So, the SPO and the SRS, thanks to having good candidates, wonderful people, decent people, won these elections. I ask the question, since the total in this slaughter died: Comrade – 24 were slaughtered and 41 were shot, four were burned, three died of beatings, 120 houses burned down and over 200 homes robbed. Is this also good for colleagues from the SPO, and also for colleagues from the SRS, to explain to people who have obviously forgotten all this – is this now a reminder that the party they have given confidence in in the last elections is initiating the rehabilitation procedure of those who killed their ancestors in a monstrous and beastly way? That's one of the reasons why we're insisting that the amendment to article 15 is withdrawn and our request that this whole law be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10838	The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10839	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thought I wasn't speaking on this subject today, but two days I didn't attend here and go to my village last night, my father is 84 years old, and by the circumstances of 1943, when he was 15 years old, he joined the partisans and said, "What are you doing there, he's 60 years old, and we forgot the divisions that were there?" The applicant again wants to make earthquakes and feel that year again. If we were to be suggested by those you hold us for and that we are illegal and that we do not respect the rule of law, but you and the legalists are now trying to disprove this country's legal and constitutional order. You point out that those who have a judicial verdict, ruled by officially recognised then by state courts, can receive rights and privileges and be evened in these processes, and at the same time you attacked that state, you accept the 1953 verdict when they annulled the ruling for the organization of the Black Hand, these people are rehabilitated. This Article 15 is legally impossible and you must first initiate the procedure and annul the decision before the first-degree court and declare themselves innocent, only then by decision, or by law, to declare rehabilitation, both rights and obligations. It is impossible to recognise those rights to those who have praised or approved the presence of Bulgarian occupation forces in the area of Serbia, and I am from Leskovec. We had fewer problems, at least by historical acts and eyewitnesses and contemporaries of that period than the Germans, and most of them from Bulgarians and those who have collaborated with them, which are just Chetniks. A moment ago, Bojnik was mentioned, and this is Serbia's largest strategy, not partisans, not fighters, not men with rifles, nor malices, but Bulgarians literally performed everything that was alive, everything that could walk. Not only did they turn them on, they put them on a stake, one pregnant woman in the eighth month of pregnancy was put on a stake. Come on February 15th to Major and to see the day-to-day that and the sorrow of those people. And not to mention the Upper and Lower Caitan, who are literally burned like when the younger generations now watch American people's struggle movies with Indians. There's literally no family left. This is where you try to rehabilitate what you can't rehabilitate. He was mentioned here yesterday and a Leskovac. Just the applicants of the bill are trying to withdraw the lawsuit against NATO aggressors, those who bombed the country, rehabilitate in 1944. In 1944, it was you who supported and rehabilitated today, on September 6th, under the fact that only Allied aviation, and above all England, Leskovac was leveled with the ground. According to official data, 1,600 dead and unofficially more than 3,200. All the families were killed, not listed alive in Leskovec. In 1999, we tried to restore memory of that day and mark it with a small church, and we couldn't find names and carve it up, so we built a tap that symbolizes future life. Today you rehabilitate those who bombed this country in 1999. That's why, if you're legalists, if you respect the rule of law, I ask that the entire bill be withdrawn. Otherwise, this member cannot survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10840	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Nobody. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10841	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to know what this is all about, I'm just going to read this article 16. "Article 43 of Article 3 is amended and reads: The right to an extraordinary monthly income is decided by a commission educated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4 is amended and reads: The Commission consists of seven members, three of whom are delegated by the Republic Committee of the Union of the Association of Fighters of the NORs of Serbia, and four members are elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. “ Article 16 regulates the appointment of a commission of seven members to decide the right to receive money. There will be three members of the NOR Association of Fighters, and four members will propose the Government and elect the National Assembly. I also have to say that when you pass this law, you will have to sign the right to ask the partisan, because it will be a problem who will confirm that participation. From these groups formed in villages, there are a few living ones left, and now the problem is who will sign to whom, and most often I will be to you, and you will be to me, because among the living are few commanders who will be able to sign the rights of their comrades. If so, then this House should also elect a committee for the recognition of rights, four members, and in order to do so, I suggest that two members be from the ranks of MPs. I have a proposal for one to be Miloljub Albianic and the other to be Mr Aligrudic. I'd like to run for president of that committee right away. If necessary, I can give an explanation for a proposal like this. There'll be problems who'll sign the Ravnogorje monuments. And that could be one of the commanders of the Chetnic movement, and if he were alive, it would certainly be Draža Mihailovic. Since there are no such people in this movement, it may be someone who has been named the Chetnik Duke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10842	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) For the sake of correct notification, it is not such an amendment at all, but requires that Article 16 be deleted. The exposure contained a lot of good intentions and ideas. Thank you. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, the word is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10843	counterpart Peric mentioned the possibility of passing the law and on one occasion, without questioning the credibility of the people he mentioned, how this proposal can be practically used to translate a political will into something called legal obligation or revision of history. Along with counterpart Milisav Petronivic, on behalf of the SPS, I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 17. The bill, as it also speaks of the holders of the Belgrade monument in 1941. There is no law that can change history, and these two days we are facing a very simple choice and, believe me, it makes it easier for us Members of the SPS to work in this story, because any political majority cannot change the course of World War II, it cannot change the simple fact that in the premises of the former SFRY the People's Liberation Movement fought for the freedom of the country, freeing the country from occupiers, fascists, Germans, Italians and associates, and that a huge number of Kingdom Army units in the country dealt with other things, and above all with the fight against the communists, as they liked to say. Those who fought for the freeing of the country and those who focused their struggle on an ideological opponent cannot be equalised, and the Germans, the Italians and other occupiers put their fight completely into another plan. I can't ignore those facts, and in these three days we haven't heard one, but not one example, those bright ones we socialists mentioned, but we haven't heard from the promoters any example in favour of the claim that the Ravnogorski Movement played a positive role within the anti-fascist front. The anti-fascist front was not determined by anyone or the alliance was determined by anyone from the former Yugoslavia. It was determined by the Allies, and if you want the situation during World War II, and that's where things are crystal clear. Several of our colleagues asked the promoter to mention at least one of the eight offensives allegedly taken against the Ravnog movement. The only thing we've heard is the mention of someone, I say someone, because it has an absolutely political dimension of recognition from 1948, from a time of the Cold War, when the world was divided into two blocks and, of course, when some other interests came first. Our job is easier because we defend the idea of the left, we defend history, we defend facts, and it's so much easier for those who support this law and vote for it will have to explain tomorrow to people who were the primary motives when they defined themselves to support this law. Is this really the intention of revising history or one tiny political concession or something else, about that then? In any case, history cannot be changed, nor can the fact that the Ravnogorski Movement has gone into open co-operation with the German occupier and the Quislin government of Milan Nedic since autumn 1941. History cannot change, as well as reports of German occupation forces saying that during the war, there were no armed actions by the Unsupervised against the Germans and their facilities on the territory. History cannot change, as well as the fact that from the beginning of 1942, the following instructions and orders from Draža Mihailovic, all the equivalent structures in the Italian occupation zone of the former Yugoslavia have entered into the most intense co-operation with Italians, both in Montenegro, Herzegovina and northern Dalmatia, the Knin region, Lica and engaged in numerous fights against partisans. History cannot be changed, as well as the fact that in Bosnia, all the Chetn commanders signed written agreements with the NDH authorities during 1942 and in early 1943, recognised the Supremeity of the Head of State and remained in the fight against partisans together with German NDH units until the end of the war. History cannot change, as well as the fact that after Italy's capitulation and fear of the incursion of Partizan forces in Serbia, many Montenegrin commanders, with the knowledge and approval of Draža Mihailovic, have come into direct co-operation with the Germans. I will not violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, there will be other opportunities to say something about this law, but history cannot be changed or leveled in the rights of those who fought for their country, and against the occupiers and those who fought for themselves and for the establishment of a state, and to that end they were willing to admit everything the occupier did, and they themselves did a lot of bad things, a lot of crimes that we talked about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10844	The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10845	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that the essence of this law, as my fellow Socialists have indicated for the third day, is to be placed in the same level as members of the People's Liberation Partisan Movement and the Equality Chetnic Movement. We've found that it's a history review and it's an official history that's been recognized throughout the world. What problem do we have with the international community today? Our problem with Kosovo is that people who have done their job officially, the military, the police, have defended our country, our people from terrorists, Albanian terrorists, that they are being accused and taken to The Hague, while classic terrorists of the UCK are being shown as freedom fighters and that is one of the basic problems of our present situation. What are we doing as a congregation now? We are now doing the same thing or something very similar for a period of 60 years, for a period of World War II. It's very dangerous. This assembly, if it votes this law, will open Pandora's box, because by the same principle, very quickly other participants of World War II in these areas will also ask that, as a Chetnik, some martial arts internship be recognized and a monument for them. I come from Vojvodina, and I want to remind you that seven months ago, it was the first Hongweed postwar survey in Novi Sad, downtown New Sad. Honvedi are Hungarian fascists, members of Horti's Hungarian fascist army. Recently, such a gathering was in Mali Ijoš, a place in the north of Backa. Behind the scenes in the Vojvodina Assembly for several years, Mr. Canak, who came to power thanks to DOS, formed a commission tasked with determining the factual state of World War II. This commission, with the help of quasiexperates, politically colored experts, is trying to do something similar to what the National Assembly is trying to do here today, which is to equalize both victims and those who were perpetrators of crime. By passing such a law, we will open up the possibility that all such activities at the expense of Serbs and the Serb people in Vojvodina and throughout our country will be activated and we will have, in order to satisfy individuals, in this case I think it is individuals, major problems and not just the Assembly. Yesterday and today is a large number of reactions, calling us people, people who are members of the SPS and those who are not, are very bitter about what we are doing here in the Assembly. This could cause a crisis between the Parliament and the government. Therefore, I would ask the ruling coalition to keep in mind when it votes on this law that there will certainly be problems and that the problems created by this law will not be ended by its vote, but in fact will be the beginning of very serious problems in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10846	Replica, MP Ispanović Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10847	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one untrue was just said, probably out of ignorance. When it comes to Honvedi as fascists. You obviously don't know what the word "honved" means. Honved is an ordinary soldier, like in the German army, members of the Wehrmacht. These were soldiers who were obliged to serve the military deadline, while the SS were fascists. So in the Hungarian army there were also Honved was a soldier who was normally serving a military term, so don't call them fascists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10848	In accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, misread, has the word of the People's MP Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10849	Dear colleague, I know what Honved means. I know it means soldier, but I know it's soldiers belonging to Horti's army, which is officially defined as a fascist army. I know history so well, believe me, even though I'm a natural by education, but in high school, I had an "A" in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10850	Which doesn't guarantee that the writer of history was right. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10851	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I must really tell you that it is truly difficult for me to even be allowed to come to this draft law on the agenda of this assembly session. What is even harder for me is – why do you all who will vote for this law not provide counterarguments to us who fight against the adoption of such a law? Why don't you shut up? Or is it because you know that SPS MPs are right to discuss both the law in principle and all these amendments? Secondly, I find it difficult that I am aware of the fact that we have aroused many spirits and emotions of many families and citizens in Serbia. Surely each of you should keep that in mind when the day of the vote is right, that you may consider the good that you will press. The SPS parliamentary group, of course, proposes that Article 17 be deleted from the proposed law. Why? Obviously, because the law says that the Partizan monument will be leveled with a Montenegrin monument. I can understand why they're defending it and they want it to be like that. But I really don't understand any of the MPs anymore who are silent about all this, or those of you who are sitting here, and especially from fellow Members of Parliament who do not wish to take part in the debate on this law. I'd like to back this up with another fact. History is like that, let's not change it. Since 1996, we've tried through history school textbooks to end our country's history. We have no right to do that. We must accept the truth and the facts as they are. I'm just going to read you a fragment of the dispatch that actually a member of the Chetnik movement wrote to his commander Draža Mihailovic, where he says: "The people when they hear that the Chetniks are coming to the village are more afraid than when the Germans, Bulgarians, Arnauts and every other religion comes, because they all come, if they need someone to drive or kill, they drive or kill. But these guys beat up that after three days, the person in question has to die. I'll only give you one case, and there's plenty of cases like that. Kalabic beat himself up in the village of Ljubicevic three men and one girl who died four days later. They weren't guilty of anything. I know they're going to report that they're actually guilty. So that's the history of mankind that hasn't been remembered. They fight the partisans, they always get away with it, they go after villages and slaughter that innocent people." The question is that today he is able, a member of the Chetnik movement who wrote this letter to his commander Draž Mihailovic, would he be in favour of levelling the Montenegrin monuments with Partizan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10852	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10853	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPS, the amendment to Article 17 of the proposed text of the law was submitted by MPs Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as is known, cannot vote for the law for several reasons. In order for this bill to be found in a congregation procedure or to produce legal facts, it is necessary, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 404 and 414. The law on criminal proceedings, to repeat the criminal proceedings under the applicable procedural rules of the case before the first-degree court, to bring other potentially acquittals, with the restitution of all material and immaterial rights of previously convicted persons. Is that possible? Do the MPs, gentlemen of honor, recognize the principle of the division of power in this country? Whether the judiciary, executive and legislative authority is only part of the political programme of each political party or when it enters parliament, when parliamentary clubs are formed and when certain objectives are achieved which are mostly political or other – this principle can cease to apply. So, in this assembly hall, there are 50 graduate lawyers, many lawyers, many former judges, many professors at the Law School, let them plead to this circumstance. We claimed this morning that if the law was passed and voted, it could not produce any legal fact, it is inadmissible. You know it well, but you didn't bear it because it produces legal consequences, but political consequences. You want rehab, which is impossible, according to what we heard here today as arguments. The amendment refers specifically to the proposed member. We suggest that it be deleted for a number of reasons. In the manner I've been here today since the afternoon before you, I'm going to read an act. All I'm reading is dispatches from the Supreme Command of the Draža Mihailovic movement. The adjutant of this command, therefore the Chetnic Command, writes the following declaration to the presidents of the units' responsibility, and says: "To make it easier and faster to liquidate these red darklings, anyone who informs members of the Chetnik movement where communists and authorities with the military are able to capture and liquidate the communists, for each killed and captured communist by our army will reward an adjudicator with 20,000 dinars. I guarantee that the pointer will remain completely secret to the public, and his name will never reach out to the public." Gentlemen, you've practically come up with insiders here. Insiders have existed since this time of year. These are protected witnesses. For 20,000 dinars, it was possible "one without a soul, two without a head", that was the principle. Furthermore, the letter says: "I especially insist that you look up to the experience of the Požega brigade, which in the last operations alone has been liquidated in this way by 11 communists," and lists the names of three fighters, while the rest are non-fighters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's impossible to go through all these things and vote for one of these laws. There are sea documents, there is a great experience, there is unfortunately an experience seen in Serbian tradition since we exist, as long as our memory goes back, we see a terrible and difficult picture. It's a picture of a dead defender and a foster parent dying in those or these wars. The hardest was when he was killed by his neighbor or by an ideologically different military or military movement. That is why it is not possible for this law to be passed without expecting it to run into the reactions it has encountered.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10854	Veroljub Stevanović, Meko Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we thought we weren't answering the amendments, but you've gone too far. Who are you talking to, you socialists? Most of them? You turn to most when you say: you will vote. Well, we will. So most of this people figured out what history was, and they found out what history was, but that doesn't matter what you're talking about with history. It has to do with ideology. A while ago, I was asked by journalists if there was any hate speech; I said no. I really don't see it. I know you all well, we're here, there's no hate speech, there's ideology, there's politics. Who are you talking to? Is it because of the voter's body that we don't tell the truth? What adjutants, are you rooting for them for what you read here? Are we going to look at history differently, other facts, not empty stories? Was America, with the Russians, the first force to defeat the Germans in that war? How did America view that history? What did America say about that history? Let me just tell you something. You think history starts in 1945. You showed that when we voted for the coat of arms and the anthem. There was no king for you. We were all born in 1945, but when we were born, only these left ones were born, and these right ones were born. These right ones were born, and leave more of those empty stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10856	First Mr. Dacic's replica, then Mr. Baralic's replica, but you're not personally mentioned. Just one correction, the Assembly unanimously adopted the coat of arms, the anthem and the flag, and there's no reason to argue now 50, sixty years ago, so we don't remember what happened a few months ago. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10857	First of all, we haven't initiated a debate on this subject. We warned the promoters that the debate on this issue would raise many issues and divide from the past. There's no ideology here. There are questions here who actually fought for freedom and who collaborated with the Germans and the Italians. I'm returning one more question to the beginning. Any Chetnik who fought against Germans and Italians has the right to have the status of a National Liberation War fighter. All we have to do is prove if they fought. Someone here was talking about it. Not all of them who belonged to the Ravnog Movement can have these rights, because then there are Djurisic, who also wore the honour of King Peter and Hitler, and then there are the non-dicians, the Ljoticians. It is true that history does not begin since 1945, but does not begin since 5 October 2000. After 2000, your parliamentary majority in the Smederevo Municipality Assembly, with the exception of Shormaz, voted to give the name of Ljotic to the central square in Smederevo. It's absolutely about whether someone was fighting fascists or working with them. Don't be mad at us for giving the argument here. Please state a different argument. Please state the words of Stalin, Churchill, Roosevelt, and you offensive Chetniks against the Germans, the names of the cities that the Chetniks released in 1944 and 1945, etc. There's no problem. Don't ask us to keep quiet. We can't keep our mouths shut about this matter so that you can make your decision as soon as possible. Mr. Stevanovic said earlier, in the debate he had, the historic reconciliation is that in Kragujevac Obren Cetkovic he will be the director of one company, because we have made a parliamentary majority there. That's what I was talking about at the beginning. As far as the SPS is concerned, historic reconciliation has long begun. Don't make me compare who was easier and who was harder. Do you choose Obren Cetkovic or us when we chose Vuk Draskovic as vice president of the federal government in 1999?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10858	There is no basis for replication, we have found that, and Mr. Omerovic has long been tolerant, waiting as a stuck rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10859	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you not to mention the guns, because they've been astounding at what we've been talking about for two days now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10860	God forbid, I'm sorry, metaphorically.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10861	I'm not a stuck gun, I'm not acting like a stuck gun, I'm just trying to be an MP doing my job. Thank you. We heard, representatives of the right-wing movement should be equated with representatives of the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan movement. They weren't in a hurry, since 1941 they've reportedly waited to create the right time to attack Germans and occupiers. Unfortunately, someone is now in a great hurry to conclude, as soon as we are done with historical facts, in order to adopt, by force, the amendments and additions of this law and unjustly assign all rights to representatives of fighters, disabled and their families in accordance with the same rights that belong to the fighters against the occupiers. I don't think a good part of those rights deserve much of those who were in the Equality Movement. There have been a lot of contributions and documents here that speak about what is in the archives of the German, American, Italian and other forces, which contribute to the fact that the representatives of the Ravnog Movement co-operated with the occupier. During this announcement and in order to point out the illogicalness and historical injustice that the representatives of the Ravnog Movement are equal to the representatives of the Partizan movement, I firmly reject the possibility of introducing a Montenegrin monument as a pandan to the Partizan monument, because if we do so, we have made a precedent. Perhaps tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, some other congregation majority will introduce a five-eyed monument. I'm afraid that way we can't correct the results of history. Here are two examples from the source closest to the right-wing movement. One source is the commander-in-chief, King Petar II, and the other is an officer at the Kalabic headquarters. The commander-in-chief of the Ravnog Movement, His Majesty King Petar II, will remind me again of who knows which time, on 29.8.1944, took the command of Draža Mihailovic over the Yugoslav army in the country. It is not a random, respected fellow Members of Parliament, nor a sentence that King Peter the Second used in that invitation, which is indeed worth quoting precisely for historical truth. "All those who rely on the enemy against the interest of their own people and their future and who would not respond to this call from me will not be able to free themselves from the treason mark either in front of the people or in front of history. "Colleges and fellow MPs, it is not by no chance that a large number of those who have entered the Equality Movement with the desire to fight the occupiers, after seeing more obvious co-operation with the occupier, have crossed the ranks of NOK. I would remind you of this occasion, both the son and daughter of Draža Mihailovic did. They did not go to the participatory movement, but joined the Partisan movement. Another source is a letter sent directly to Draža Mihailovic, and it is directed by an officer from Kalabic headquarters. I quote: "Dear and much-respected Uncle Drazo, first of all, forgive me for having to write to you like this, but as a Serb and a national fighter from the first days with you, I must save the Serbian people and consider it a duty to write this to you. It's about the Mountain Guard and Mr. Kalabic. In fact, almost every officer of the Gorge Guard brought a Chevalier to his area and said she was his fiancée. Now you can understand what the Serbian people say. They fight the partisans, they always get away with it, then they go after villages and slaughter this innocent Serb people, and they report to you that they have caused losses to the Partisans in battle. I can only tell you that the Serbian people swear to the King's mother, to you Drazo and to all in order - when she is such a guard, what a second army she is. And I underline to you that the people are very bitter and there is no expression of how much the people cry out for help. I'm telling you this is the whole truth and it's not a lie or intrigue. I'm an officer at the Kalabic headquarters. I'm very well, but I can't watch the sinful Serbian people suffer anymore. After all, ask all Kalabiæ's neighbouring Corps commanders. That's what he'll tell you. I understand you, dear Uncle Drazo, where you are and what situation you are in, but take any action, because this is more propaganda for partisans than they have. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You have to understand me; on November 3, 1943, a loyal officer to your grave. "Do representatives of such a way of warning the Montenegrin movement deserve the rights that you, as proposings, seek for them. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10862	Thank you. MP Zivorad Smiljanic reported on the amendment. I apologize for the metaphorical exposure, but it applies to each and every one of us. Like, I've been waiting for you guys to finish the gun, I don't mean anything by it, but I have to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10863	Dear MPs, I was born in 1942, so I don't remember the war. But I want to tell one true anecdote, because I come from Apatino, where the colonists came after the war, all the bearers of the Partizan Monument. My father worked for 25 years at the stocking factory and at that factory worked Milan Majstorović called Prićko, and one moment he said, and there was a story about the recognition of martial arts pensions, and he told a porter, Krauts, Franji, says – come on, Franjo, apply for your standing; since all the Germans were folks, he says - Milan, where I will. He says, "Here, I'll testify to you that during the war, you chased me around the face, so you could get a fighter pension." What I'm saying is that this reminds me of that story about the equalization of the Partisan Monument's bearers in 1941 and some of the Equinox ones. This isn't about reconciliation. We are now digging through wounds and even more causing intolerance and hatred. The reaction of the citizens I listened to yesterday is very ugly. I think what we're doing in the congregation today reminds her that we're beating up empty straw and what Negos would say - if a woman asks me where I've been, I'll tell her I'm so shiny, hard to take care of if she doesn't believe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10864	Thank you, Smiley. Anyone else on this amendment? Here you go, Franislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10865	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when some members of the law are proposed, then it is necessary to take care of what it will look like in practice. First, the people to whom this applies have at least 80 years of life. The easiest thing to do is to add words in a law where there is a Partizan monument -- a Belgrade monument in 1941. If this confession was to be introduced, then the rules of the game to assign this monument were to be made. They can't apply the same rules to Partisans and Chetniks because they didn't have the same goals, and they didn't fight the same enemy. On the Partizan monument in the solution, the reason is that they fought the occupiers, and should stand in Belgrade -- they fought the Partisans together with the occupier. If it was a desire to help these people, then it was necessary to make a new law with clear rules of the game, how these confessions will be awarded, what will be called, who will provide evidence that someone would come to recognition, or you'll call in an ad, so who will answer. It needs to be awarded a equivalent monument and therefore all members should be deleted from the proposal, where the equivalent monument is added. That's why you have a proposal to delete the word "equal" monument. Imagine the people of 80 and 90 to gather together and ask them the question - who deserved the monument. People at this age can't remember what they were having dinner with, let alone where they were and who they were with 63 years ago. Since the problem will be who will sign the Montenegrin monuments, Seselj is the oldest duke, since he is not in the country, the oldest duke in the country is Tomislav Nikolic, who will sign the Belgrade monuments. Maybe that's why you'll have the majority to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10866	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Under the same amendment, Vice President Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10867	Dear MPs, on this line on which Hranislav Peric is on and on equalising people belonging to the Partizan movement and the Equality, it turns out that neither Seselj nor Toma Nikolic should be there, best to open the kiosks in all municipalities, since one belonged to the Montenegrin and the other to Partizan, so it turns out that they were all fighting for freedom, and those who cooperated with the occupier, and that whoever wants to apply, we take those monuments and finish the job. This is how it turns out that no one was on the opposite side, no one cooperated with the enemy. The other thing I think is that it's always getting mixed up is this explanation that's written. It wasn't a problem-solving line, it was a multiplication. It is that the partisan monument and participation in the Partisan movement with political party membership are constantly mixed. They went into the woods together, only in different positions. In addition to the request to withdraw this law or to accept this amendment, although it does not mean that this amendment is accepted, unless the amendment is accepted on Article 1, I still have to read to you today the declaration that Vuk Draskovic worked with me on 24 March, because here, I am not going to take the first three positions I read to you, but the fourth, says in a joint signed declaration adopted unanimously by this assembly - the universal principles of freedom, justice and democracy are the foundations of a stable, strong state and are the strongest misery in front of the debates. Looks like we can't tell what a fight for freedom is. That's what's the biggest problem, because the problem is what we're going to discuss tomorrow after 10, 20, 30 years about those cops who were guarding some corners of the KLA, how we're going to treat them and how some congregation majority are going to treat them here. "The celebration of our country's holidays will be marked by symbols and dates rooted in the state and people's tradition and that unite us in patriotism and loyalty to the state and the people." Is that gonna be May 13th? "The history of our people is woven by the struggle for freedom and independence. We are rightly proud of it, so we will always defend freedom and ensure the independence of the state. “ We need to send a message that every citizen of our country will at any time fight for freedom and that it will value a future, not value cooperation with anyone who threatens that freedom. Therefore, if we look at these things, which Vuk Draskovic signed on 24 March, six-seven years ago, we look at, then it is clear that this law and attempt to equate people who were in the equality movement with the participants of the Partizan movement, the equalisation of the Partizan monument and the formation of some equivalent monument, something that will cause harm, I am convinced, to the state of Serbia very quickly. Don't be surprised when tomorrow some Kosovo parliament makes a decision to give ballistics the right to be anti-fascists, although 4,500 soldiers of the Yugoslav Army in Drenica died in 1944. Don't be surprised when something like this happens, when we open a mistake like this in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10868	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10869	Dear President, honourable MPs, since the 2005 budget was adopted with the deficit, it is not right for a new member of 64 to say that funds for the material application of this law are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and Article 25 provides for the law to take effect eight days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". Since this item is not in the budget, was it not realistic, if the law was passed, that it would stand and that it would apply since 2006, so that when the 2006 budget was adopted, funds for these purposes would also be foreseen. When similar demands come to Finance Minister Dinkic, for bigger problems in the state, for the unemployed, for the poor, he says there is no money in the budget, there is no item in the budget, he cannot help underdeveloped municipalities. Under this law, the finance minister is not declared, and perhaps he is not informed, as is Kostunica. Looks like this law has the same attitude. The minister had to make a statement on this issue, because it will not be small funds that will be needed for these purposes. Another problem will come up. Although someone says that we are not arguing in the Assembly, that we should make peace, this is the law that will set Serbia's citizens aside. By yesterday, the best neighbors, best friends and cousins, because they know best what happened in their midst, there will be a lot more fighting among citizens than we can assume here in the O.R. There's going to be a malfeasance with the signatures. What about the citizens who didn't participate in any movement? Did they also survive the horrors of war, of bombings, of fighting in their villages, of starving them, because these armed groups that didn't fight the occupiers, and they were always near the village at night came to their village and took away their food. Why now their grandkids have no right to accomplish anything, while the Chetnik's grandkids can do it. You of the DSS can always throw away, but it's your parliamentary culture. Why now their grandchildren have no right to accomplish anything, while the grandchildren of the Chetniks will be allowed to do so. Why hasn't it been seen better, so depending on who's made the contribution, so much for the right? That is why we have proposed to delete this member and we will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10870	Anyone else on this amendment? National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10871	Mr. Chairman, I know you're in a hurry, but you need to hear this in addition to the argument against such a member of the proposed law by 13 members of the SPO. In fact, you know that we have recently adopted the budget in this assembly and it is impossible to expand the number of beneficiaries who enjoy the right to pensions. The government's non-existent opinion on this law, the resolute Minister for Labour and Employment and Social Affairs, Mr. Lalovic's opinion, gave an explanation, which makes the whole law essentially unacceptable. There are no ideological reasons, there are legal-formal and financial reasons. Among other things, it is said that the possible adoption of this law would lead to an area covered by the Ministry of Labour and Employment in an even more difficult application situation, especially since the application of the law would also require appropriate changes to other system regulations, e.g. Pension and disability insurance laws. It is also said that no financial effects are listed, i.e. no review of the necessary funds for their implementation. The available funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget are not enough to achieve all rights under the current rules in the field of martial law, and due to the lack of the necessary financial resources, the implementation of the bill would be impossible. So I'm reading to you what is the expert opinion of the competent ministry, and I don't want to go absolutely into ideological and any of the reasons, because it's absolutely enough what stands, and it's strictly legal-formal reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10872	Anyone else on this amendment? Here you are, MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10873	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, at the end of this two-day debate, we are, in fact, coming to the beginning of what my colleague Nestorovic and I have been saying in principle when it comes to this proposal to amend and supplement this law. So this law is legally impossible. He's politically possible and it will prove at the vote, but I don't want to talk about it right now. What is controversial in this proposed amendment, which seeks to remove the dispute, is precisely the funds in the adopted budget. You all remember very well how much time we spent to discuss the 2005 budget. If on that occasion one of the representatives of the proposings of these amendments and the addition of the law to this speaker had taken so long to convince us that the funds needed in the 2005 budget for this purpose were necessary, then I could also appreciate this consistency and principle. I'm afraid this is, and I'll remind you again what we talked about in the previous debate, part of political marketing, the political act of a parliamentary group, which is trying to equate representatives of the Partisan People's Liberation Army movement with representatives of the Yugoslav movement in the country, as it was called under the command of King Petar Karadjordjevic. The game ended in 1945, won by representatives of the People's Liberation Army Partisan Movement. That victory was verified by both judges and delegates of the match, representatives of all major forces. Now, 60 years after the end of that event, someone's been trying to get on the winning team. I think that's historically impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10874	The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10875	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the first time I answered, I said the law was legally impossible, and now it's being initiated that it's really impossible, and we're forgetting one other fact. Earlier, one MP spoke of this as an ideological debate and that all those in the People's Liberation Movement were ideologically defined and communist. You're mistaken, gentlemen, it must go on a brighter example from my native village. After the adoption of this member and the law in general, today and tonight, 500 people will apply for rights because you determine both status and individual rights. Under the earlier law, commissions were wiped out there, and the status of a fighter was determined by the organisations of the People's Liberation War. The status of the monuments they established, and then they gained some benefits. No state commission can determine that without who was the organizer of it. These true patriots and freedom fighters went to war to defend their country and banish Bulgarians and ballistics. You will determine here the right to the ballistics, which were literally the 13th brigade, 90% of the people killed in 1944 in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and I know it all well. If there are about 1,000 people, I must say to the legislators that several thousand participants of the People's Liberation War, who under the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance of Farmers have acquired the right for 15 years and these additions that they will have under this law, the budget will have to be much more segregated than what you hoped. That is why this law should be rejected and not adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10876	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. We suggest that Article 24 be deleted for the following reasons. First, Article 24 of the proposed law amends Article 65 of the Basic Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. Otherwise, it is one member who speaks of transitional and final provisions. He says that on the day of the application of this law, the laws cease to apply, so they are listed. The draft amending the law deletes that member, adding a new position, deadlines for the exercise of the right of members of the Ravnog Movement, i.e. the Yugoslav Army in the country and members of their families, start from the day of application of this law. On the other hand, whether erasing these provisions can mean that those previous members are valid or not. The bottom line is the next one. We are against this member, as we are against this law. If we are against the exercise of the right for members of the Equality Movement in this way, then we are also against deadlines for the exercise of that right. We have repeated this today, and again, in this law which is social and which speaks of conditions for the exercise of the rights of fighters, the status of a fighter is regulated by another law, and one and the other is governed by the provision of the Law on the Fundamental Rights of the Fighters and that they have fought the occupiers. We've been insisting on it all along and on showing it to us. Obviously, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters is, in fact, content and intentionally, a revision of history, because it is in direct contrast with the historical truth that has been established. These days we've been giving you arguments, facts, data from sources of not ideological Bucharests, as it stands in the explanation, but from foreign sources, English, American, and we've listed all of this, and Churchill, Roosevelt, King, etc. From domestic sources, we only used the one who spoke in the "Last Chetnik Conspiracy" felt in 1974. All in order to show that historical truth has been established. If anyone doubts the historical truth, then the state does it in another way, determines a commission that together with historical institutes and the historical department of the Academy of Sciences, with historians, will review all archives and determine whether something really isn't true, and if not, what is true, whether someone has been wronged, and if so, what is and what injustice is done. It's only then that he enters the assembly scene with his responsibilities. Until then, there are so many problems in Serbia, difficulties and uncertainty that the Assembly has a lot to do. In the second part, we gave you arguments to leave the court's rulings. Of course, doubting judicial decisions, law enforcement, gives them the opportunity to reassess, undo and modify, and to carry out rehabilitation on this basis, and then give all the rights, social and other rights for which there is a need. It's the right way. Now, once again, we warn you of constitutional and legal and judicial interference for the adoption of this law. In the end, the Assembly can adopt this law, it can equalise the rights of members of the Liberation and Equality Movement, but history cannot change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10878	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10879	It's always Kostunica's fault, he's the Prime Minister, it's not me. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the amendment submitted by SPS MPs, Mr Zarko Obradovic and Misa Petronijevic, are requesting that this member be deleted. To delete this member, there are many reasons, and the first and biggest is that he is the party president Vuk Draskovic. I respect the SPO MPs in the Serbian parliament, and I might also vote in favour of their proposal to replace Vuk from the post of president of their party. As it says now, that Dana Draskovic has a greater influence on Vuk than the MP club, does not allow me to think about the vote at all. If this law were passed, as it was given in the proposal, the next statement in the Vuk newspaper would be, partisans and fighters of the People's Liberation Movement sent to The Hague. He would also have support from some parties here in parliament, which would advocate that a smaller number be tried in the country in front of our courts, because that's how I understood the presentation of the head of the DSS Parliament Club, Mr Aligrudic, who advocates two-way co-operation. It is likely that Mr Aligrudic lost sight of his government's failure to give an opinion on this law, although the competent ministry of martial arts and social affairs gave a negative opinion on the law. In the end, I must say the Chetniks helped the partisans, too. They were sent ammunition over abandoned pipes. This looks like a football game 40 years ago played "Partizan" and "Red Star" and the score was three to zero for "Partizan". After 40 years, MPs at the Serbian Parliament and the coalition majority voted that the result was three to three. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10880	Replica, MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10881	Mr. Peric, I have to use Mr. Bucky Angelkovic's dictionary and tell you - Mr. Peric, you've made a mistake. Both of them, what Bucky said, went into the woods. So, I admit, the property of Serbian, the host of Serbians, in the 1950s was taken away by Chetniks and, I admit, those years of social property were invented by Chetniks. Here, I admit, in 1945, the Chetniks were guilty of killing so many Serbs, innocent hosts, and in 1946. Is that history, gentlemen? So it has nothing to do with history. Let's not argue about it, because you said one more thing, but be careful what you said. You said the Americans cooperated with the Germans and the Italians. You said that directly or indirectly, anyway. You said the Chetniks cooperated with the occupier, and those same Americans proved to be their allies about the Chetnik movement. So, gentlemen of the Partisans, here's what we're not gonna say anymore. I have to say something, to be heard again. It is true that the coat of arms and anthem were voted unanimously, but it is true, gentlemen of the partisans, that you were not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10882	The word is from Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10883	I'm not going to rephrase Mr. Verk, I'm going to talk about the amendment, but here's my confession that I'm not a partisan, I'm just rooting for "Partizan." I couldn't. I was born in 1958. He couldn't even be my father in the Partisans. He was born in 1940. The Germans as soldiers of the king's army were loaded into the truck, they fled, they did not end happily, they died, and therefore, I could not be partisan, Mr. Verko Stevanović, and it is not about being one partisan and the other Chetniks. I hope we don't split up here in parliament by who's partisan and who's a Chetnik. Here is the debate on what is an anti-fascist struggle, who fought for freedom, who fought for Serbia, the Serbian people, the state of Serbia and the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia. That's what we're talking about and whether we want to even it out, the ones who fought for that freedom and the ones who didn't. I'm asking you to talk that way. Otherwise, I admit, of course, that the communists invented social property and I'm proud of it. This is not possible in these conditions now, but in that time, it has proved to be good, and I admit that communists have done all the factories, all the houses, all the apartments, all the roads, and we have been the fastest-developed state in Europe, these are facts, and I acknowledge that as a former communist. The next thing I know about this amendment, and I think it should be accepted to delete, I remind you that just two or three weeks ago, here in the Republic Parliament, I proposed to provide additional funding of three billion, to reduce the range of late retirement pensions for peasants. Now the peasants 24 pensions are late. I suggested, well, we can't make up for 24 pensions as a state, so we can make up for the payments and make up for three billion, and instead of 24 being 31 December 2005, we're late for 18 pensions. The government said -- we don't have the money, we don't have the three billion, we can't have the peasants who now have to live and who can't, because they're 60 and a few years old anymore in agriculture to work, to secure three billion because there's simply no such money, we have nowhere to pick up because we're going to ruin the economy. How come we don't have for peasants and we have for the equgoreans 60 years ago? We don't have the money for pregnant women, we don't have the money for peasants, we don't have the money for social donations, and then the law on which tens of billions of dollars will provide for the Equality of 60 years ago. Even if we put aside a discussion about who was an anti-fascist and fascist. So that's what we have money for. It's not politics, it's not the responsible government, it's not the responsible parliamentary majority, which is how it behaves. The bottom line is what I've been saying, but that's an important fact, an important point in how responsible policy is run. This is not how responsible policy is run. As I can never accept, nor will I ever accept as a man, that those who make five statements a day that freedom fighters of Serbia, fighters who defended all those who were to be expelled and ethnically cleaned, should go to prison, that they should be arrested, that they should be kidnapped, sent to The Hague. And this same Vuk Draskovic is asking that those, at least most of whom were not anti-fascists, get money now, money, monuments and everything else. That's why I think it's best to withdraw the law. If the law doesn't fall back, then at least this member. Show that it's not about money, it's about status, so at least accept this member where money and income are not provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10884	The word has a National MP, Bogoljub Pejcic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10885	Even though I said I wouldn't answer for a word, but really after Bucky's exposure, with this much perseverance and so much untrueness, I'm just gonna say a few sentences. I'll tell Mr. Bucky, first of all, that it's a lie to single out so many billion from the budget, because the survivors are only there and there, those who didn't die on Kočevsky Horn, who weren't shot at the Wall Bridge, who got their hands on freedom from Australia to Canada. So, there's very few of them here. Secondly, Mr. Bucky, the Justgores didn't fight for pensions, for privileges, for rank, for apartments. They fought and fought with faith in God, for king and country, and it cost them their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10886	Replica, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10887	I always speak energetically, but it's not scarred. I even said very well and very precise, absolutely, personal emotional relations with this I don't have, except historical. I just don't have one way or the other. So you can't attribute it to me. But, gentlemen, if you say they're not big money - how big are they? I don't have emotional, personal, but I have a political view of who the fascists were, who the anti-fascists were, who was working with the occupier, who wasn't, but that's a political question, that's not a question of passion. I didn't say a single sentence in that sense to make it scarred, I was against sharp sentences. Gentlemen, how much does this law cost? Tell me, how many people are there? I say a lot of money. For me, there's a lot of money and 100 million, and a billion, and five billion, because three billion are six rural pensions. Say how much? Every law means to write, this will cost so much and so much, and that will be provided from the budget, thus and thus, that and that sentence. Tell me, how many people is this going to cost Serbia, more specifically, how many citizens of Serbia are this going to cost? Say the citizens know it, we don't mind, you'll adopt, just so we know – it's not a scarcity, it's a political attitude. If you don't know how much it takes, calculate first and then go to the citizens and say, "Dear citizens of the taxpayers, this will cost you so much and so much and we offer to adopt it, and we don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10888	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10889	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. Stevanovic spoke of the state signs of Serbia, I want to say here that I am not a representative of the Partisans in this House. I am a representative of Serbian citizens who voted for the SPS, who inherits all the positive assets of the Socialist and Workers' Movement through history and, of course, the assets of the Partizan movement. We did not vote in favour of such state signs of Serbia because we consider the crown a monarchy mark. But the fact that we didn't vote for those national signs of Serbia doesn't mean that we'll ever whistle, tear or burn those national signs of Serbia, as some have done. It doesn't mean that under these signs we won't fight for the freedom of this nation and this country. That's the attitude towards the state, ladies and gentlemen. Dimitrije Tucovic was against war, against war credits. When World War I broke out, he responded to the call, participated in the war and died, and now a democratic, alleged government in Belgrade wants to bring down a monument in Slavia. It's the attitude to state signs. It's true we didn't vote. Not everyone in this country has to think the same thing, because where everyone thinks the same thing, they don't think much. But no socialist will ever whistle an anthem, tear up the flag, or humiliate the state signs of this country and this people. We are one responsible folk party who wishes well to his people and to his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10890	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. The People's MP Vukevic is giving up the discussion. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10891	Dear fellow Members of the People, after the work is over, we will propose to continue our work on Tuesday, but let's see if there are enough MPs in this room to continue this debate, seeing that some of you see this as an opportunity for entertainment or some personal competition, although we see that we are also training political will, and political correctness and correctness between us individually. I came out to explain on behalf of the SPS why we feel that this member of the law should be deleted, why the law is wrong, without political evaluations, but only through the dry facts, supported by documents. I wish the proposer had offered anything in these three days except verbal statements about the value of this law and what it will bring to Serbia better. It won't do any better. It'll just make the division. This law will not cost Serbia much, as a logical question is raised due to the time distance, how many people will be in a situation, if adopted, under this law enjoy some rights. But as a state, we're going to get a slap, and it's a fat slap, because we're going to be the only country in Europe that's found fit and necessary in 60 years, and I see that some of the efforts to explain it, politically and statelyly, are to admit that someone who has collaborated with the Germans, the Italians, fascists can now be freed from that responsibility and is included in members of the anti-fascist front. Well, after 60 years of World War II, we'll be first. Looks like we like to be first in a lot of things. The French didn't do it when it came to Peten, although he was a much bigger hero than anyone, mentioned in these three days in the debate, or the Norwegians with Quisling. We'll get a slap, and it'll worry us, and then we'll scratch and where it doesn't scratch. We're going to get that as a state because we're going to show that we're always digging for something we don't need. Look at the German documents, see what General Draž or Colonel wrote, as it was signed, which ideas were realized during 1941, 1942, 1943, and what that Chetnik movement was doing. If Carla del Ponte gets those documents, he will also be convicted of genocide and the creation of a large Serbia. Look at the ideas he represented, look at the German documents and what his soldiers did during World War II. I didn't mean to mention it, but it's obvious that the proposing should mention documents of the Chetnik movement, which tell us what they were doing. Well, I'm going to suggest that we do, obviously, because he thinks we're short-minded and we don't have the will to talk about it. We have a will. What our secretary general said, we have the will, because we see this as a political struggle with people who want to change history, and history cannot change. I read again, because some obviously need to read this, a Chetnic report, what the Third Brigade in Shumadia was doing in 1944: "11 April 1944, Dublin - burned two houses, shot by six faces of communist flocks; 12 April, in Senaja – shooting communist flocks; Dubona, 13 April – shooting four communist flocks; Vlaška – shot by Tihomir Avramovic; 2 May 1944, Dubona – the burned house of Vitomir Savic from Dublin because his son Miroslav did not want to respond to the call for an exercise but fled to the communists; 22 June 1944, Mali Pozarec – shot 12 people who were suspected as communists". Or what my colleague Brance mentioned, a massacre in the village of Druvac, is said "communists were killed, about 150", and we heard an explanation that they were not communists. Yesterday, I mentioned the village of Vranic, near Belgrade, in Barajev. In the Liberation Wars from 1912 to 1918, the village was lost by 328 soldiers, and on October 15, 1941, the Germans shot 38 inhabitants of this village, 44 died in Partisans. On the night between 20 and 21 December 1943, the Chetniks slaughtered 72 locals. That's the data, that's the facts. It's something that we all need to think about why it happened and what idea led these people to do these crimes, so it doesn't happen again, not the political needs of one party and the dry desire to profit politically and win some percentage of the profits, possibly some election censorship in the next election. It won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10892	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10893	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to you, Mr. Vice President, it was not pleasant for you to take part in the debate that was conducted for a few days, and we were unable to change that, and I hope that our relations, both human and collegiate, will remain at the level of correctness as we have so far. The amendment that Mr. Milisav Petronijevic and Dr. Zarko Obradovic submitted to Article 24 is also one of those amendments that leads to nonsense, which says that the law is pointless and that is trying to give the best possible indication, first of all to you who are making the decision, and also to the public of Serbia that the law, once again I say, is inconclusive, cannot produce any legal fact and that it can produce, as it has already done, certain political and other tensions. But everyone does what they think is best. With that in mind, we risk you telling us that what we're doing is not doing what you think is right. But, of course, we know on behalf of what, on behalf of whom and for what purpose we have this performance before you and the citizens of Serbia today, and with this, we ask that you do not mind us. There were direct references to whether they were these or them, etc. That wasn't our intention. I would like to say that it is my honor to be born in the area where Dr Dragisa Misovic, Costa Novakovic, Filip Filipovic, was born in that town where two strong movements took place. The Partizan squad of Dr Dragisa Misovic was the largest military formation in 1941 and the Ravnog Movement was also a major military, both military and political organisation during the same years. That's why it's very difficult for us out of that neighborhood, both movements have worked in a narrow space. The consequences of this action are measured by numerous victims. That's what I was talking about yesterday, it's not my intention here tonight, but I also want to say that it belonged to a movement that's been hard to break for a century. I remind you who came up with the sixth-year dictatorship, who is the creator of the Obaljena, who was checking the sustainability of the SCOJ secretary and communists with hungry rats, who killed Dr Dragisa Misovic in 1939. Cacak had 5,000 residents at the time, with 15,000 people participating at his funeral, 41 speakers spoke. Dr Dragisa Misovic was killed by Belgrade police, His Royal Majesty, with the responsibility of Deputy Deputy Pavel Karadjordjevic. It has never been easy to promote the idea of left-wing and it is not, as we see today, easy to defend. It is our interest to explain to Serbian citizens that socialism is no wonder with a five-point body of rights relating to education, health care, social stability and much more. What we're talking about here today is, to a certain extent, the subject of what I'm talking about here. Once again, several times it has been mentioned, I will show, this is the introduction of “Lovcena”, Cetinje, 11 October 1944, please pay attention to the language in which it is written. "Colonel Djurisic's high honor. Chetnik commander Mr. Pavle Djurisic, recently promoted by General Nedic to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and entrusted him with the duties of Assistant Commander of the Voluntary Corps, received a special recognition from the Supreme Command of the German Armed Forces for his military virtues and was decorated by the Fire Order of the Iron Cross." Dear gentlemen, is it possible to explain that Pavle Djurisic – I will remind you, "Djurisic, young Major, commanders of Montenegro, Montenegro and Sandzak, where the five-pointer fell" – was it possible that this man deserved to be sang songs in Serbia. Only 57 people who did not have German citizenship were awarded an iron cross, not counting Austrians and Sudanese Germans. How is it possible that someone in this man's name is looking for the right and the Keeper's monument? I can never agree to that, no matter what you think of the party I belong to, the movement I belong to, that I will fight for while I have the last atom of strength. As for partisans, I was born in 1957, but if I was born before, I could sing "I'm a Partisan, I'm a Partisan".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10894	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zarko Obradovic and then MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10895	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed that this member be deleted and that the law should not be applied, since it is a member talking about the application of the law. We did this for the reasons that in the past three days with a lot of facts, documents collected by people who experience our history, World War II and all that happened as something personal, we managed to deliver to us, documents that were collected even in the American Congress, of course German documents and everything else, and documents of the Royal Government in London, documents of the Yugoslav Army in the country. We have not quoted for these three days any book or document or any information from any of the historians from Yugoslavia since 1945, so we say that we would not be objected to if we were not objective in showing the facts regarding the request that the Ravnogorski Movement be declared part of the anti-fascist coalition and that it is based on the rights enjoyed by members of the People's Liberation Movement of Yugoslavia. And now out of the abundance of all these documents come some indisputable facts, which I will try briefly to illustrate: 1) That Draža Mihailovic did not intend to fight the occupiers and never ordered his units to go into that fight as a whole. 2) Since 1941, he has offered his co-operation for the joint fight against the occupation and the Quislins against the Partisan NOP and its armed forces. 3) With his knowledge and approval of all commands and units of the Yugoslav Army in the country outside Serbia have entered close co-operation with the Italian occupier and Pavelic's NDH. 4) In Serbia, the Germans kept their reserves towards Draža Mihailovic, and we mention this, because it stands as a fact, especially because of his ties with the British and immigrant governments, and the presence of British military missions in his headquarters, and occasionally took repressive measures against organisations and individual equinoxes. That's right, that's a fact and it stands. 5) The change in the situation in the Balkans after Italy's capitulation and the strengthening of the NOP and its armed forces forced both German occupier and Draž Mihailovic to step into the most difficult co-operation, especially in the joint fight against a strengthened opponent. Yugoslav Army units in the country were involved in a joint battle with German, Bulgarian and Quislin units until Serbia left in the fall of 1944. 6) The co-operation unit of the Yugoslav Army in the country with a German occupier was regulated by the signing of a number of written contracts whose provisions included both the Quislin authorities and units. 7) In addition to participation in the struggles with Partizan units, Dražin's equivalent movement especially in 1941 and until the end of the war engaged in the discovery of NOP supporters' organisations and committed numerous crimes through their liquidation, slaughter, arrest, robbery and persecution, with close co-operation with the Quislin police. 8) During the entire war, the unquestionable resistance to the occupyer, the Partisan NOP, was the only opponent for the Equality Movement that was directed only at the fight against the movement, and never against the occupiers and quaslings. 9) There is no evidence that Draža Mihailovic could confirm the character of the resistance movement to fascist occupiers. We haven't heard a single piece of evidence from the promoters these three days or about the famous offensives, or anything they've done as a movement, as an army, as a battle formation, as a whole. Simply, that movement, those units, those people had another idea on their mind. Apparently, the ideological struggle was seen as primary in terms of the need to defend the country and fight against Germans and Italians. That's the facts. Whether or not the proponents who support this law liked it, it is history and nothing will change there, and we will as a country because of the adoption of this law, because of the vote for this law, ie. Those who vote have the mark of shame, for we have made the associates of the occupier equal with those who have given their lives to defend the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10896	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to use the last amendment in this debate as an opportunity and give a few sentences that will be the last sentences in my reporting and reporting to the MPs of the SDP on this bill. The Chetnik movement of Draža Mihailovic is a unique military-political entity operating in the area of the former dismembered Kingdom of Yugoslavia. If this bill really wants to, and we have heard this for the past two or three days, rehabilitate Chetism, then we must bear in mind facts, historical facts, that Chetniks in all parts of the former Yugoslavia are designated fascist collaborators, and in some spheres of activity, as well as their kvislins. Since all the Chetniks were under the command of Draža Mihailovic, this kind of rehabilitation of the Chetnik movement would also include Chetniks acting in the space of the former NDH, Montenegro, Slovenia; I will remind you, there was a Blue Guard, on the territory of Macedonia, and there they co-operated with fascists and fascists and they would be amnesty of such action. These are the countries that were created by the collapse of the former SFRY. These include the Chetniks and representatives of the Belgrade movement Draža Mihailovic, whom you are trying to rehabilitate with such a bill, are placed in the order of fascist collaborators, so it would be inappropriate for us to involve ourselves politically in other countries' internal affairs as well. In addition, all the professional and scientific literature, in particular the encyclopaedia of foreign states, which my fellow MPs from the SPS and my colleague Ljiljana Nestorović quoted in previous days, all of these literature, whether members of the axle or anti-hitler coalition, the Chetniks of Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic, are treated as collaborators of fascist occupationists and their puppets. History is a science that is built on verified facts. What happened once was recorded. The work, however, is an attempt to end history, which is unserious, immoral both in front of domestic and foreign public, strange, sometimes funny, given that we have no explanation. NOVA has been recognised in the world as the only strong and sacrificed ally of the anti-fascist bloc. Its 305,000 fighters fell in the fight against occupiers and their helpers; 90,000 Chetniks armed with occupiers served the interests of occupiers on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. The passing, ultimately and adoption of this law, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, seems to me to us in the SDP, would produce very serious consequences for Serbia's reputation in the world, especially in countries in the former space of the SFRY. Whether it will happen, I repeat the repeated thought of this speaker, that Serbia will be the first member of the anti-hitler coalition to pass a law after 60 years of Fascism breaking equalising the rights of Chetniks, occupiers and anti-fascist fighters. I want to believe that's not gonna happen. Finally, I would like to thank all MPs who, respecting parliamentary practice, respecting the Rules of Procedure of this High House, have participated in this debate in the previous days and listened carefully to everything that we MPs of the SDP have said. You disagreed with us, that's your right. I'm sorry you didn't present a single document, not a single piece of evidence that would be contrary to what many of the people we've instructed for this speaker, reading only what's written in the archives and documents of international organisations and some other states. I hope that this debate, at least for us MPs in the Serbian Parliament, World War II is over. Let's go back to 2004. Please, on behalf of the citizens who chose us, let's start solving citizens' problems. If I were to start now, this opportunity to list them, I think I'd overstep the Rules of Procedure. Serbia's citizens' problems have so much to do with it. They expect us to help and solve these problems. I thank you and happy all the coming holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10898	National MP Blagica Kostic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10899	We didn't give you any evidence, you say. In the vicinity of Užica and Cačka in 1941, Partisans killed several thousand more visible people, so-called National intelligence, which they called tomorrow's enemies. There are living witnesses to many partisan crimes. Crime is a crime, whatever it is. Today, I was invited by Mr. Sveta Filipovic, who was a member of the Draža Mihailovic movement, to tell me about some of them. I'm not going to pick them up individually. I'll only tell you what the facts are. Mihailovic was the legitimate commander of the unit of the Yugoslav Army that did not surrender and he was not a Chetnik commander, but the Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army's Supreme Command in the country, following the approval of King Petar II Karadjordjevic since 17 June 1942. At the same time, he served as minister of military in the Yugoslav immigrant government, under the presidency of Slobodan Jovanovic, on January 11th 1942. The government was an official member of the anti-hitler coalition. While Colonel Mihailovic created a resistance movement, Yugoslav communists respected the Soviet-German non-aggression treaty of 1939. It was only after the German attack on the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941 that they took action. Nearly half a century, the official day of the Serb people's uprising was July 7th, the day that Zikica Jovanovic in the White Church killed two Serb gendarmes. The actual day of the Serbian uprising should be 31 August 1941, when the Adriatic Chetnik Movement released Loznica. Then the German garrison, a total of 93 soldiers, surrendered. It was the first freed city in Europe and the first surrender of a German garrison, which was also accepted in the West. Chetnik troops, under General Mihailovic's command, have freed many other cities. They also participated in the battle over Krupanj on September 1st and Banja Koviljaca on September 4th. If Mihailovic had sincere intentions for the Partisans, he also testified that he rejected General Nedic's proposal to make a military alliance with him on 4 September 1941. Instead, on September 19th 1941 in Struganic, he concluded an agreement with KPJ Tito on a joint fight against the occupiers. It's an official document. The Chetniks freed Požega on September 24th. Under the command of Zvonko Vučković, commander of the First Chetnik Brigade, was released on September 28, 1941. the year of Gornji Milanovac. Then he surrendered, too, to a German 60-man garrison. Chetniks, under the command of Captain Jovan Bojovic, together with the Partisans freed Cačak on 1 October 1941. Major Dragoslav Racic led them around Sapac in late September and early October 1941. The Serbian royalists suffered the greatest loss in fighting over the Kings. The biggest battle was fought between October 13th and 14th, when 80 Chetniks died, according to German data. That's when Chetnik Commander Simo the Taker died. It should be said that there was no support from Partizan artillery on the right bank of Ibra, which had previously been agreed. As part of these fights, on October 7th, an artillery attack against the King was carried out by the Chetniks, which was celebrated as JNA artillery day after the war. Also on the night between October 31st and November 1st, a tank attack on the city was carried out, also by the Yugoslav army in the country. And this day after the war was celebrated as the day of the tank units. As part of the collapse of the uprising in Serbia in 1941, German units also attacked the Chetnik positions in Ravno Gora after cleaning up Partizan territory on December 3rd. During December, an attack was carried out on the house of Duke Živojin Music. Mr. Belic was talking about the results of that attack. Aleksandar Misic, son of Duke Mišic and Ivan Fregl, were captured. They were shot together on December 17th 1941 in Valjevo. (President: Time.) ) The biggest accusation we've heard here was estimates that Mihailovic was an occupier's associate. That's absolutely not true. There is no single document of German origin to treat Mihailovic and his fighters as such. They were German enemy number one from the beginning to the end of World War II. The character of Mihailovic's movement is the best witness to German action against him. There were several of them. He mostly managed to come out as a winner. One more thing, about the importance that Mihailovic had for the allies of the confessions given to him by the Western alliance's greatest commanders. In August 1942, a British commander in the Middle East told Mihailovic to follow his actions with admiration. It was also decorated by General Charles de Gaulle, a war cross with a palm branch. Also, he was decorated by Truman. I hope this is an argument enough to conclude this story. Crime is a crime, no matter who committed it. That's enough of them. It's time to get back together. Neither are we Chetniks, people vote for both SPS and SPS, and those who are for that idea and who are not. We live in 2005, so it's really time to turn to some future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10900	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10901	Dear fellow MPs, I went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's about, obviously, misreading. I'm glad I was in a situation, probably like most of you, to hear this argument from a fellow SPO, which is formally one of the motions of this document. Obviously, the SPO has an ideological problem -- obsession with the partisan, such as Draža Mihailovic had a problem of being obsessed with the communists. It's primary. Crime, crime, and crime are constantly mentioned. Please propose to the National Assembly on the subject of the agenda, if you care to discuss what was going on, so offer relevant documentation and inform the public of Serbia that things are going on. This obsession with the partisans is dominant among you, as the general was obsessed with the communists and did not want to be actively involved as a movement in the fight against the occupiers. I mentioned this several times and gave it relevant documents, and mentioned these documents, that individual Chetniks or officers of the Yugoslav Army in the country fought against the Germans. Nobody slows it down. This is about the whole movement, the character of the movement, the function of the units, not in August and September and in early October, but also in 1942, 1943, 1944 and 1945. When he was such a good officer and minister, why did the king give him up in 1944? Why did the British give him up when he was so successful? You know, it's a shame that a colleague didn't mention it, that Mihailovic himself gave up the combat successes of his officers, which she mentioned. At a meeting with the Germans in Divci in 1941, he said for the attack on Krupanj, "The attack on Krupanj is not my work; it is the work of the apostates of Lieutenant Martinovic. “ He gives up his people. German document. Or, he says, "I had to go to Loznica so the communists wouldn't take it." Whether the Germans are here or not, that doesn't matter. He himself gave up the success of his officers, so that the Germans would not object to him to fight them. Or, he says, "I demand that I be allowed to continue the fight against communism that began on October 31st," etc. (President: Time.) ) In any case, we offered a lot of documents and that thing is absolutely clean for us. This three-day debate we have done with the power of will that we possess, because we are telling the truth. We know history can't change, and this congregation won't do anything about it by passing this law. The assembly majority, believe me, will, after two or three weeks be ashamed of this law and what they did with this law, in order to try to revise history, and it won't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10902	The word is made by MP Radovan Teodorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am happy that this law will be passed after so many years that one great injustice will be corrected. I'm happy that we adopted this coat of arms a few months ago, and I'm happy that we brought a new flag, that we're listening to the new anthem, that the grandson of Draža Mihailovic is sitting right here. I'm proud of it. The SPO program is being implemented. To my fellow Socialists, don't be offended, since they didn't answer just one question, you've brought a lot of inaccuracy to the Chetniks. Maybe it was everything. I was born in 1962, and I wouldn't know for sure, I listened to stories. I'd like to ask you a question, did the Chetniks wear wigs in their pockets and clean barns for the hosts, if they cut their hair to the head, whether they were pulling their mustaches, whether they were confiscating their property? That was after the war. Whether or not the right to vote has been taken away by honest hosts. Was it Chetniks doing it or someone else? I don't want to call anyone. Was Zikica Jovanovic a folk hero to have such schools bearing his name, and he shot Serb Bogdan Loncar and fired the first shot at the church on July 7th. And his wife was banned, and after 50 years, she first lit a candle to him in Capco. Did the Chetniks do it? No, they're not. Answer those questions. I don't want to hurt anyone. There was everything in that war. I have listened to stories from the elderly, so I want to send a message to the wider Serbian public, which is also illustrated in the SPO programme: Ravna Gora must win.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10904	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10905	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, it is obvious that the SPO MPs are putting a lot of emotion into this debate, probably for these personal reasons and cannot overcome some facts, and are mixing the time period and content of this law. If they took care of the content, they'd talk about what's in the law. I said, if anyone wants other topics, what happened after World War II, let them choose to submit a proposal and appropriate documents in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will discuss it. There's already been a subject mentioned several times that I gave an answer to the other day. Obviously we need to do it again. And that was the thesis of July 7th, 1941, the rise in Serbia marked the moment, when a Serb shot a Serb. It's not like that, gentlemen, it's not, it's not like that. The first arrests were made on the night of June 23rd and 4th, and they were arrested communists, and the first fired on July 5th 1941. That is what the MPs say, in a ten-day report by the German Field Command 599, Belgrade, 13 shot communists, did not execute the chosen officers, but used the officers who were hand-in-hand. Those communists were dead in no time. It was done by the gendarmes, those who agreed to organise power with the Germans after the Germans arrived at Serbia's premises. It was the first killing of Serbs in Serbia, carried out by Serbs in the occupation service, two days before Serb gendarmes were killed in the occupation service in the White Church, two days before. Serbian gendarmes continued shooting Serbs for the occupier's account. On July 17th, 16 communist officials were shot, 11 people and one woman were shot in Cacca on July 20th, 81 persons from Razana, Koseric and the surrounding Valjev. It's data and it's history. It's something you can't ignore, let alone forget, not mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10906	Here, the word has a People's MP, Theodorovic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10907	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, responsibility has been avoided again. Has the Serb uprising been raised on July 7th? Why do you avoid that? As a history student, I learned that he was raised on July 7th. You've been talking about shootings for three days, which must have been from both sides. I didn't mean to tell you my own thing, but I'll tell you, my grandfather was killed by communists nine days before the end of the war. I didn't mean to mention that. You read all the time, and the shooters in Vranić, and here, and there. All right, maybe there was everything, the war was civil. The civil war was caused by Serbian communist Zikica Jovanovic, the Spanish, fired the first bullet and killed a Serb. Guys, that's what I learned at school, you taught me, your ideology, you wrote history. I'm referring to your history. It's a shame. That's why I'm sorry that these students left the Faculty of Teachers, to tell them not to teach children twisted history, to teach them when the first Serbian uprising was raised. If we were fighting fascists, was the first shot fired on fascists. The uprising in Serbia was then raised, not July 7th. I live near the White Church, relatively close, Zikica Jovanovic the Spanish killed Bogdan Lončar and fled as the most common coward down the river. We've learned that for 50 years in history. It's a shame. I don't mean to belittle you, but come out and tell me if it's a Serb uprising, July 7th, if the uprising that killed one man, but you have faith, so have we.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10908	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10909	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, World War II must have started when Hitler's Germany attacked and enslaved the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, after World War II and the winners and defeated, they may have had exaggerations in their version of history. The outcome of World War II cannot be changed, civil war is not fought on Serbia's territory without occupation. Serbia is occupied, not only by the Germans. It was also said here that some members of the legal army from Hungary, who served their military time, were involved. Unfortunately, they served their military time in Serbia. They're occupiers, no matter what their name is. I haven't heard from you in a while. I've called to say that the SPS, as you know, is for historical reconciliation. Vojislav Mihailovic doesn't sit here from a few months ago. He's been sitting here since the mid-90s, and it's precisely the votes of the SPS MPs, and I'll remind you once again, the real historic reconciliation is that grandson Draža Mihailovic was elected mayor of Belgrade by the Socialist vote, deciding to support the Socialist vote. Also, the historic reconciliation is that Vuk Draskovic was vice-president of the federal government at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule. We are for historical reconciliation, but we must make sure that in this historic reconciliation there is no counterfeiting of history. This isn't an ideological question today. I resent anyone who approaches this in an ideological way. This is not a question of who was wearing a five-pointer and who was wearing a cocardine. This is not a question of who was a partisan, who was called a communist or who was for a king. This is a question of who fought against fascists, Germans and Italians. I say once again, the Socialists are in favour of admitting to every brush the status of a fighter if he fought the occupier. That's why we're against the whole movement being given this right, and you're talking about 1941 when, among other things, co-operation between Partisans and Chetniks. On the other hand, niylism in history began a long time ago. You know from the beginning of the 1990s that first it was the destruction of the busts of those who fell for this country, for this people, that there was a desecration of the monuments, that there was a change in the name of the streets. Why did it bother the name of some street named after a folk hero who died in World War II? Why did Tolbuhin bother, so now the street is called MacKenzie? It is nihilism that existed in some parties that were in power in local self-government. That's why we tried to talk in this debate about arguments that are not ideological in nature but exclusively about the quotes of documents and speeches held by Churchill, Roosevelt, Mussolini, the records from the session of the refugee government, the king's government from 1941 to 1945, also quoting the king himself. The army commanded by Draža Mihailovic was the king's army, and the commander-in-chief of the army gave up the one who commanded his army in mid- 1944 and that is the historical truth. He gave up under the pressure of Churchill and Western allies, and that's absolutely historic truth. Also, I want to say that we absolutely respect and here I want to confess to all those who really stand up for what they think. It's important to have someone who's convinced of what they think. I am only against false, those who have been communists for years, skiers, who are children of Partizan generals and folk heroes, those who have enjoyed all the benefits of communism, and who today speak of Chetniks. One of them is Vuk Draskovic, unfortunately. I quoted his actions and, of course, I already said, if you resent the communists, you must also resent the president of your party who wrote all of this and who was a member of the Communist Party all these years. Also, the Democratic Party gave the quorum and will vote for this law. Therefore, it is a party that is falsely left-wing, although it is a member of the Socialist International. We are unhappy that this law is on the agenda, but we are also very pleased because there will be a clear division in Serbia on the left and on the right. In the elections, all court fighters, although Serbia does not have such a relationship in the electoral body, the majority of them are right-wings stemming from the Chetnic tradition. That is why it is clear to me that this law will be passed because it will also be voted by the SRS, because Tomislav Nikolic is of course a Chetnik duke who is photographed under the pictures of Draža Mihailovic, who in the elections invites World War II fighters to vote for him. Also, other political parties will vote. I don't mind the DSS because it's probably derived from these traditions, that's their opinion. They'll vote and part of the G17. I don't mind the SPI and New Serbia who belong to this ideological event, but the guilty fighters, let them think carefully about who they will vote for in the elections, not when elections come to the organisation of fighters say we are a non-party association, and then we'll vote a little for these, a little for them. It showed in Serbia who is on whose side in the elections. As long as there is an SPS of course we will preserve the memory and tradition of the Partisan People's Liberation Movement. I repeat once again that it is not the most important who is defeated and who is defeated. I repeat once again that for all of us, for our history and for our present, for our future, it is not the most important ideological question, nor who is the winner, but who has been defeated, but who has fought for freedom, and who has collaborated with those who have occupied the country. This is important because we may once again find ourselves in a situation to defend our country. Historical reconciliation for us does not mean causing re-divisions and conflicts. Historical reconciliation means that both children and grandchildren of Partisans and Chetniks, that both left and right, Republicans and monarchists, believing and atheists, that Serbs from both sides of Drina, Danube and Sava, are united and achieve brotherhood and unity within our people in defending the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. It's a truly historic reconciliation. In the end, let me apologize to everyone who has been hurt by this debate, because this debate, as I said, has caused redistributions and probably hurt the memory of many, because we all come from different ideological directions, we come from families that belonged to both the movement and the other movement, and so I think that this debate was such that maybe someone in it found themselves injured. In the end, let me express my gratitude to all those who gave their lives for their people and their country in World War II. The worst is reported in peace for the chase, and in war, the best is always reported, as the poet said. Therefore, regardless of the war flag, regardless of the uniform, regardless of the symbol, may eternal glory be to all those who gave life to this country and to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10910	Mr. Dacic, since you mentioned me more than once, it's my turn to answer. It is true that you voted in the City Assembly, but as a minority, for the president of the Assembly, in early 1999. Like now, you didn't just vote for me, you voted for the city and because you couldn't behave differently. I've always been in the Serbian Renewal Movement, vice president of the Serbian Renewal Movement, and if you vote today, maybe you're not just doing it for this government because you love your government but because you love yourself. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10911	I didn't say we voted for Vojislav Mihailovic because he was a member of another party. He's a member of the SPI, I think he's also the vice president of the party, and I've cited that as an example of historical reconciliation. In the parliamentary majority that is being made, and the parliamentary majority, as you know, makes everyone in it, always works in the interest of this parliamentary majority. Therefore, it is not relevant to this remark you have made. If you want me to be honest, we voted for you in 1998, not for ourselves, but for you, but for Zoran Djindjic to leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10912	Mr. Dacic, it wasn't 1998, it was 1999, and I'll remind you that you barely left the city government after the lost elections and it was three months late. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10913	So after you forcefully tried to retain power in 1996... The theme is all this talk here, Mr. Dacic talked about everything these three days, so he mentioned several times the late Zoran Djindjic. So after you forcefully tried to retain power in 1996 and after the protest of the people, you had to give in. Then it was the government of the coalition that unfortunately fell apart and you voted in favour of the Serbian Renewal Movement, for the sole reason that they would regain their positions in the boards of directors, directorial posts and all the privileges that gave you today are to support the minority government of the Republic of Serbia. It's nothing, nothing new, but just tell the truth. We all know that's the way it is, and don't deceive the public. It seems to me that you are very seriously burdened by the Democratic Party, especially after the presidential elections, where you have been so gloriously and where the president of the Democratic Party has won. You three days here say you're having an argument. You're not having an argument. In this House, most MPs sit quietly and listen to your tirads below every civilization level. In doing so, you are constantly provoking all those MPs, first of all sitting on this side, including the MPs of the Democratic Party, and you have repeatedly called the Democratic Party in a bid to strike down a bigger fight and to hear much more difficult words at the expense of the Serb people from World War II. If by any chance you were responsible for the way you were talking about the Chetnik movement here, some listener on the side would think that the Serbian people were a criminal people and that nothing else in World War II had worked but collaborated with the enemy, slaughtered and killed. As you have brought here books and historical sources that speak of the Partisan struggle, believe me, the other side could bring at least one number of historical sources that would speak of the heroism of Draža Mihailovic's movement and the cowardice and betrayal of the Partisan movement. Of course, the truth absolutely does not exist, the truth is somewhere in the middle. Both moves were honorable movements, fought the occupation, but unfortunately, it was also civil war, where there were clashes between each other and killing members of both of them and other movements by tomorrow's neighbours, and even relatives. We of the Democratic Party have supported this law. And to put it on the agenda, we'll vote for this bill. Our reason is very simple – there are numerous divisions that destroy the ethnic tissue of the Serbian people, it takes at least one of these divisions in some way to close. We think this way is appropriate. I don't think your discussion was about historical reconciliation here. I think when you talk about historic reconciliation, you use it in a very malicious way. The purpose of your discussion was to re-exploit one part of the Serbian people who participated in the Draža Mihailovic movement during World War II. So, we didn't want to participate in this discussion, and I hope I won't have to answer again, and I would ask you best to control yourself so much that you don't have to mention the Democratic Party and Democratic Party President Boris Tadic more times every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10914	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10915	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't remember mentioning Boris Tadic in my presentation, if I'm wrong, correct me. It may seem to Mr Markovic that when someone gets up in the morning and evening, the day begins and ends with the wish and oath of President Boris Tadic. As far as I know, Mr Markovic here is the only representative of the Democratic Party almost all day. I don't know how these MPs of the Democratic Party are exposed to "tortures" to listen to a different opinion? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, you fought. You didn't fight with your democratic potential to listen to the same opinions but to listen to different opinions. That's what Walter and Russo talked about, that they'd give their lives just so everyone had the right to say their different opinions. What do you expect, that you make your proposals here and we applaud? As far as the 1990s are concerned, many participants in these election "stealing" are now on different sides, in different parties, in these or those events, in the former DOS, the current DOS, the current Democratic Party, some other parties, etc. What are you talking about? You're talking about Chetnik tradition here. How will some of your members from the Democratic Party who have graduated from the communist political schools in Kumrovec react? I'm sorry, I didn't get to be in Kumrovec. What about your members? You think that's what gets them now that I'm talking about it? It hit them so much that they ran away, they're ashamed to be here, because whenever I mention it, they're looking here at the ground. We have nothing to be ashamed of, we are socialists who are the heritage of the socialist and social democratic tradition, from Svetozar Markovic, Dimitri Tucovic and Partisan of World War II. So we're proud of our tradition. As for the boards of directors, we were not in Belgrade's executive government during the period you're talking about. That's what Mr. Mihailovic knows. Interest number one was to bring down the Democratic Party of the City, thank God, that's what happened. On the other hand, speaking of boards of directors, ask those of the DSS how many more of your people are on boards, which the Serbian government has not yet resolved. It's already a problem for a party that exercises power. I read today in the paper that Neda Arneric was also proposed to be a member of the Management Board of the Sava Centre, the one who voted from Bodrum to replace Dinkic and select Kori Udovicki, and you talk about boards? You will tell someone, as Natasa Micic says, that this assembly has lost its legitimacy – you who voted from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, you who took the mandates of the MPs? Therefore, it is likely that the Democratic Party as well as the Serbian Radical Party needs some explanation as to why they would vote for this. No explanation is necessary for these other parties. They're Chetniks, Chetniks and what they need an explanation for. They consider it and we respect their opinion, and you have to convince your voters that what you're doing is a mirage. Fighters vote for radicals, and they're supposed to go out now, so they don't fight with others. The Democratic Party is coming out, it won't participate. I repeat once again, the Democratic Party has given its support to all of this just to cause as much dissension and conflict as possible within the parliamentary majority. Do you think we're naive? Do you think we're naive to fall for stories like that? Therefore, I did not mention Boris Tadic. If I have to mention him, I can mention him from today till Tuesday at 10.00. We are against the DS, we are against Boris Tadic and we are proud of it. Anyone who wants to work in Serbia's interest today should condemn the political disunity that Tadic brings to Serbia, his statements and the sharing of Serbs in Kosovo, urging them to go to elections, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10916	Mr. Markovic is looking for a replica. Since it's only a few more minutes to 1800 hours, I ask the MPs, if we can bring this discussion to an end for a moment. This is the last amendment and be so rational that we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10917	It really seems to me that you are seriously and regretfully burdened with the Democratic Party. The way you treat us is pure pathology. We can be political opponents, but we can't have the kind of hate and impatience that you're showing us. As for different opinions, we should have different opinions. Everyone expressed their opinions on the first day of the discussion. We've been here three days just listening to your tirads. As for the theft of votes, before the court, proceedings related to this famous vote and the Bodrum affair. But you, Mr Dacic, were on TV explaining to the citizens of Belgrade that the elections in Belgrade were won by the Socialist Party of Serbia. You, Mr. Dacic, have defended the theft of hundreds of thousands of votes, not one vote in the National Assembly. Mr Dacic, I don't think at all that the method of discussion in parliament is to read the paper and call on the paper. And that's what you've been doing these days. And today you mentioned the paper, you saw something in "Kurr." There's no need to ban the paper, and I'm reading the paper. Here, for the first time here I'm showing this title "stealing a bag of money a day", it's a mouthful of patriotism and full of purses and pockets of money. Of course, you remember, you know what it's about. Furthermore, "disputed", SPS official Milorad Vucelic, I'm sorry he's not here, the whole of Serbia knows, the secondary school in Serbia is weak and we have to pay high school, or he pays 320,000 Swiss francs in Switzerland. It is patriotism, during the most difficult moments of the Serbian people in the recent history, that is, in the history of the second half of the 20th century. Repeat, we do not need any discord, there exists or does not exist in your ruling coalition. The ruling coalition will solve this on its own, because every coalition, even ours, when it was in power, had its own problems, it has this one, and it's not something secret and special. We don't want to break up with anyone. I repeat, we will vote for this law, because we believe that we should put an end to that painful division within the Serbian national being, which is a division of partisans and Chetniks. There are too many divisions in our society, among our citizens and among the Serbs themselves, let's try to close at least one. You are the only ones in this House who are in an incorrect way trying to escape from it and make a mockery of this attempt, and of the ruling majority MPs and MPs of the opposition, to do so. The only group that opposes that and that reconciliation is you. This concludes that only you in dissension and in disunity are able to progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10918	Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10919	I am pleased to be able to measure myself with the Democrats at all times. As is known in the Together Coalition in 1996, I congratulated on winning the local elections. Those who canceled those results then moved to DOS. Part of them. Also, those who may have participated in the SPS are no longer in the leadership of this party. I don't know if they're in membership. After October 5th, they were already in Zoran Djindjic's office on October 6th. We're ready, I've always said, as far as we're concerned, we've been exposed here for four years to the greatest terror, you've been able to question us, to do what you want as in the Gestapo, to arrest at the time of the Sabela action, that you haven't found anything. I'm willing to measure myself with everyone and my property and everything else, but of course the gentleman who talked about it. I didn't want the paperwork on him, which was sent by the citizens when it was his choice, to come out here. Of course, if it is necessary to discuss this, let it be discussed, but all in all, as far as this is concerned, I really want to say on behalf of the SPS – historical reconciliation does not mean agreeing in everything between political parties. Historical reconciliation means that all together on the most important national and state issues we have common ground, on the defence of our state independence, on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, on the defence of Republika Srpska, on the Constitution of Serbia, on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but with the protection of national and state interests. What party is it that violates this national unity? DS. And that's true, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I want to finish this topic. We don't do DS at all. She has her vision and mission, she thinks she has some historic mission. In the fact that she has this number of votes and the President of the Republic, unfortunately you've helped them too, some of you who are sitting here. The DS is a party that has nothing in common with the SPS and we will always be against those people that the party proposes. That's all. Historical reconciliation – yes, on the most important state and national issues, and as far as the SPS is concerned, remains where it is. This short trip to history was only to avoid the fact that the people who forgot their history were doomed to relive it, so that we would not have the situation again that those who co-operate with Haradinaj tomorrow are national heroes in Kosovo and Metohija. And those who went to the elections, as President Tadic advocated. The DS is on track to go into political history, but not in terms of importance, but to come down from power. The local elections in Serbia also show this. Specify the municipalities in which you are in power, and you will see that the DSS is in double the municipalities in power, although it has almost double the votes. You'll see that the SPS is in more municipalities in power than DS. And why is that? Because, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades of the Democrats, no one will come with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-17-0.u10920	If no one is answering for a word anymore, since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, MP Bogoljub Pejcic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Tuesday, December 21st, 2004, at 10.00pm, as a day for voting on the draft law in principle, detail and general. At the same time, pursuant to Article 80(3), we will begin at the end of the vote on Tuesday (December 21st 2004). Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. Let me immediately inform, before the start of the session, members of the Legislative Committee, immediately after the vote is completed is the session of the Legislative Committee in a small hall here on the ground floor. We continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 149 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Goran Svilanovic and Natasa Micic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on the sole agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and Members of their Families, since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, in principle. For 113, against 24, with six abstentions, nine of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 113, against four, two abstentions, were not voted 18, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 111, abstention one, no vote of 20, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, against two, with three abstentions, did not vote 15, out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 113, abstention one, not 17 votes, out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 112, two abstentions, 17 of the 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 110, with two abstentions, no vote of 20, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 110, with three abstentions, 18 out of 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 10, against 110, two abstentions, 19 out of 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 111, a abstentioned one, no vote of 20, of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ambassador Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 13th amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against 18, abstentioned four, did not vote 15, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 112, three abstentions, not 16 votes, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 112, three abstentions, not 18, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 114, a abstentioned one, 15 out of 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 110, with two abstentions, not 20, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 112, a abstentioned one, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 112, a abstentioned one, 18 out of 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 17, 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 24th amendment. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 109, a abstentioned one, not voted 22, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, against 24, the two abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 110, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, in general. For 174 against 24, four abstentions, nine of the 211 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In accordance with Article 80(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I schedule the start of the eighth session in 12.50 hours. (The session ends at 12.10 p.m. )
