ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4627	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the DS's already stated position on the bankruptcy law, I will pay attention only to two moments in connection with this law. So, I will pay an affirmative attention, first of all, to the financial assistance that Europe has conditioned by adopting these laws, of which the bankruptcy law comes first. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act, Proposal for a Law on Value Added Tax, etc. For this reason, the DS supports this law and believes that what is good for Serbia is good for the DS, and in this direction we think that this law is extremely good. The second thing is about greater efficiency in carrying out bankruptcy, and in the part, above all, greater confidence of creditors, and so far it has been neglected and has been in some other plan; there is also a faster reorganisation of businesses, or faster recovery, if possible and greater mobilisation of funds through the sale of assets and investments where it is economically necessary and where interest allows. For this reason, the DS supports this law and I would refer to my predecessors' discussion only for these two moments and say that DS will support and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4628	The People's Messenger Darko Glisic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic be prepared. So, Darko Glisic is not there, the word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic. Heljana Dragojevic is not there either, so then the word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic be prepared. So Nemanja Sarovic is not there either. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let Branimir Trajkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4629	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, are involved in bankruptcy proceedings and the law on the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings. I want to start by saying what the G17 plus attitude is about this law. We are convinced that this is a very good reform law, a law that is in line with European legislation that will contribute to the stability of the Serbian economy. That's why we're voting for this bill. Before I begin to explain why I think this law is good, I just want to go back to the beginning of our debate a few days ago when there were words about who wrote this law and when we tried to credit the credit for writing this law to this or to that ministry. Of course, all in the name of the state interest, G17 plus has the next position -- it really doesn't matter who wrote this law and whether one sentence wrote this or any future ministry. G17 plus believes the laws should be written by experts, those who know the legislation well, those who know the problems of the Serbian economy, those who know the process of European integration well. What is important is who will vote for this law and who will contribute to the stability of the Serbian economy. Those who do so will surely do so for the good of the state. To go back to the law itself, why is the law good? The law is good, first of all, because it clearly defines problems, unlike previous laws. This law is good because it foresees precise and effective deadlines and thus shortens bankruptcy proceedings. This law is good because it foresees the possibility of reorganisation, not just the possibility of bankruptcy. It is not true what some claim, that the process of reorganisation is the same as working bankruptcy; it is not true, for the simple reason that the working bankruptcy could have lasted forever, which is often led by bankruptcy managers of suspicious quality and suspicious intentions, and because the working bankruptcy was mostly used for further exploitation of Serbian businesses. This is not the case with reorganization, and it will be led in the end by a congregation of trustees and a very professional bankruptcy manager. This law brings about something new and it is the institution of a bankruptcy manager who will be expert in his work, who will take the bills, which unless the radio is well sanctioned, because he will not be able to restore his license, and if he works well, he will be clearly rewarded for his job. Furthermore, what is very important in this law is that it also foresees the protection of workers, because workers are practically the first in the chain of those who will be calmed after the bankruptcy of businesses. So immediately after the settlement of the debts of the proceedings, the first on the trustees list are the workers and that is the component that gives a single social note. Then, this law also provides for the protection of the state. Someone asked why the state is above the trustees? Because the state is the interest of all of us, I guess that's quite clear. Of course, the creditors will be fully protected by this law, which was not the case with the previous law that actually protected the debtor more than the creditors. Let's go back to how this ever happened and why this law wasn't passed before. Let me just briefly explain on the case of my city what happened because there was no clearly precise bankruptcy law. You probably already know that I come from a town called Leskovac, which once proudly bears the name of "Serbian Manchester". Also, at the entrance to my city you could see the board where it was written - welcome to the city of cosmetics. In the city there was a chemical industry, a drug factory, and we had a number of processing facilities in the area of agriculture. Today this city does not live, for the simple reason it is a poor city of poor people. I went around the city over the weekend, and I went to the Vlasotins, Bears, Lebaneses, and all these cities of the economy don't work. What happened to successful businesses in this area? It happened that in the 1990s there were policy-savings and people living on the edge of the law, contracts were concluded that were not for the benefit of businesses and workers, harmful business contracts. The funds started to spill into private pockets instead of going to workers and businesses. What was going on with the companies? These companies were not at first able to reconcile their obligations to the creditors, but nothing, therefore, continued to work. The trustees stayed short sleeves, fell apart. Then they were no longer able to reconcile their obligations to public enterprises. Nobody paid for the electricity, they didn't pay for the heating, the water, but that's why, at the head of these companies, there was the same company. It couldn't have been paid. In time, these companies were destroyed. There were no repairs in the EPS, and other public enterprises failed. It's nothing, the companies were still doing business, because the workers weren't supposed to be on the streets, that's what they were told. What's going on next? There was no more money to pay the government's commitments, and above all there was no money to settle social security funds, health care, insurance. Then the funds fell apart slowly. The pension fund's gone. We were no longer able to pay for current pensions, let alone some of the following. 'So it happened that the Health Fund had failed, but of course the workers had received health services, because at the head of the health care institution and in the ministries they were sitting the same people, who said - of course you have to provide health services, it doesn't matter what it isn't worth, which is the health of the nation being reduced, because doctors are unhappy because there is no means to work, appliances, medical equipment. So our health care failed, the pension fund collapsed, the social security fund failed, and there was no funds to cover obligations to those residents of our country who were in a state of social need. One after the other, everything fell apart. And then, of course, they took the state budget, and we all remember that well. There was no tax money, so there was no budget. They could have printed the money. That's why we got into hyperinflation, which we'll all remember for the rest of our lives. But it didn't bother anyone. The companies were still working. The workers had their own fictitious jobs and their businesses, they weren't on the streets, because it was the only thing that cared about all those who ran the country at the time. We can even remember that magic move that was literally pulled out of a magic hat. (President: Mrs Plassic, please return to the topic. Be kind, get back on the subject. This is the topic, because there was no bankruptcy law. Then it happened that the pensioners, instead of their pensions, who would have been paid out of the pension fund, got a bonus to pay the electricity. So, there's no money from the state's budget. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, I am going back on the subject, because there was no bankruptcy law; because a company, as this law will define, which for 30 days will not be able to pay its debts, will have to enter into bankruptcy proceedings. A trustee assembly will be formed, a bankruptcy manager will be appointed who will now determine whether this company can go into reorganisation or will have to go into bankruptcy, from which all those creditors in this chain I was talking about will settle. This law effectively prevents the possibility of a further collapse of the Serbian economy. But no, this law is still not in the interest of those who were rich at the time. Now, look at the wonders, we have these same people waving chains and locks and saying that they are the ones who are going to recover these companies. They're the same "goodies" that organize charity actions and save us with our own money. And not only that, you can hear the line again that workers can't go to the streets. This sentence, if it weren't boring and it didn't remind us so much of the time we remembered, would be simply funny and would point out that there are still people in this country who use the same floscule and who believe that there may still be opportunities to further exhaust the Serbian economy and workers who are employed in these companies. No, ladies and gentlemen, G17 plus believes that time has passed. I'll end up just offering one analogy. Unfortunately, difficult situations happen in life. You may be ill with a very dangerous disease that has affected one of your body’s organs and you may encounter two types of doctors. One will tell you that's not so bad. Yeah, you're sick; you won't be offered a concrete solution to your illness, but they'll say it's completely insane to remove a sick organ from your body, because, for God's sake, it's your organ. And someone who recommends it does it against you. On the other hand, you can have a doctor who will be responsible and professionally diagnosed and say that it is a serious disease that, unless removed, will immediately affect your entire body. That doctor is your friend. The G17 plus tells you that there are sick parts of our economy, that, of course, the sick parts in our economy must be removed at present so that we do not continue to drain the entire organism of our economy and our entire society, both out of business and economy. G17 plus is willing to tell the truth, to say that this law offers a good solution in that area, even when it's unpopular, when it's painful for those who have a situation like this. Therefore, G17 plus supports the bankruptcy law, which will enable the problems of those companies that are insolvent and cannot continue to operate, to pour that money into a healthy economy, and thus we can all live better together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4630	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4631	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm advertising Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Four-and-a-half minutes, an esteemed colleague was talking about something that is absolutely not the subject of today's law. That's what I want to say next. When a person makes a political decision, he takes responsibility for the consequences that the decision can have for citizens of the state in which he deals with politics or in which he conducts politics. Truth works, I'm obliged to say a few things. Describing the situation in the way we've heard it for a moment can either make it nice or leave the impression that the speaker knows the situation well. I just want to remind myself, in 1972, the then state of Serbia decided to bring the agricultural insurance funds together with labour insurance and that was the only way for Serbian peasants to get the right to a free hospital day and free health care. If we applied a principle that can be called bankruptcy, we would leave one huge number of our country's inhabitants, who gave the most he could in the past few decades, without the right to rights and full health care. Of course, this additionally complicated the fund's bonus for workers' insurance in Serbia. Also, there will be words about some other laws, I want to say - to claim from this pay phone that it has not invested in the energy system or that its reparation has not been carried out is irresponsible. I remind you that the country's electricity system was a laboratory for testing bombs with graphite and other fibers, that the actual damage during NATO aggression only in the electricity system is greater than the five budgets of the Republic of Serbia; that this country has gained power, without donations and credits, that its energy system, its technical condition raises to the level that citizens and businesses have some kind of energy security level. It all says why bankruptcy is not possible to apply in all areas of life. I'm not saying that an esteemed colleague said this on purpose, but I'd like to oppose a few things about what's been said here. The SPS will most likely vote for the bankruptcy law. It's undeniable, we understand it as an economic and any other need, but I was obliged to on behalf of all those who think about it in the way I've put it here I say these few sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4632	Thank you. The People's MP Branimir Trajkovic has the word, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared. I ask all MPs, the same article of 99 refers to everything, and whoever reports to the Rules of Procedure would have to stick to the subject itself, the very injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and not to use it for replication. Here you go, Mr. Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4633	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Simovic, I will try to explain to you as soon as possible why the DSS supports this law and why you all should vote for this law. The aim of this law is to ensure efficient, simple and fully flexible management of bankruptcy proceedings with precise deadlines. The ongoing legal reform, which the government has begun with its arrival, also required the adoption of a modern bankruptcy law. What we had so far, the 1988 Company Act, as well as its amendments and additions from 1996, proved to be inefficient and outdated. An efficient bankruptcy system based on modern international standards is also needed as part of the market economy. It provides the security of trustees, suspended businesses and faster return to normal economic flows. In Serbia, bankruptcy proceedings last on average for nearly seven years. This data suggests that we are at the bottom of the world list, and it is also talking about the investment climate in our country. As we have behind us a long tradition of financial yawning, the market can hardly function. So the question is, what does the new bankruptcy law bring? The answer could be reduced to short words - responsible, transparent and efficient. The law also provides for two options for resolving the situation in a fallen company. The first is the reorganisation - when recovery is possible, and the second is bankruptcy - when the company is over-indebted and when the procession is impossible to continue. Four conditions are prescribed to launch bankruptcy proceedings, and can be initiated by creditors, debtors and public defenders. In this law, two key judicial authorities have been specified: a bankruptcy and bankruptcy judge. This law also strengthens the role of bankruptcy managers, giving them greater authority and freedom to work. In order for them to be able to do their job, they'll have to have a special license. The licence shall be issued by the licensing agency of the bankruptcy managers. The conditions for the licence are at least high professional storage, perhaps even the status of entrepreneurs, but mainly with assets that would be responsible for a possible failure in their work, as well as a passed expert exam for obtaining the licence. Today, for example, we have a bankruptcy manager in Kraševec who deals with this business in six or seven companies, and his main task is to sell out social property, mainly for the sake of the settlement of personal and the needs of individual creditors. I believe there are such examples in many Serbian cities. In major state-owned enterprises, the role of bankruptcy manager will be taken over by a specialised institution. In addition to the bankruptcy director, the bankruptcy judge and the bankruptcy council, a new institution was introduced in this law, which is a trustee committee. The Committee of Trustees can significantly influence the decision-making process of whether to reorganise bankruptcy companies or to declare bankruptcy. A number of measures protecting the company’s bankruptcy mass are also set precise deadlines for all participants in the process. In the Serbian government, the issue of corporate insolvency and thousands of small firms that have long been in agony and have been robbed by bankruptcy managers for years has been dealt with more quickly in this way. The reorganisation, as a possible alternative to bankruptcy, is a assumed priority and allows a wide range of possibilities for the agreement of debtors and creditors, from the closure of non-profit parts of enterprises, changes in activity, repayment of debts, conversions and forgiveness of debts, to the taking of new loans and new investments. The agreement provides for a reorganisation plan which has the power of the executive document and is considered a new agreement to reconcile the claim. If the debtor does not respect the plan, the court may issue a warrant for the continuation of the bankruptcy procedure. My personal dilemma with this law remains how to implement such legal regulation in practice if our trade courts are who they are. It's probably gonna have to change that, too. The DSS will vote in favour of this law, as I propose to all MPs of the Republic Assembly, from whatever parliamentary groups they may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4634	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, and let the MP of the people, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nor is bankruptcy something that we invented, nor is the bankruptcy law something that only by the time this government arrives in Serbia's economy. The bankruptcy exists everywhere in the world and tens of thousands of companies go bankrupt and tens of thousands of other companies are formed. The bankruptcy has two directions, two options. One is the recovery of companies; if that is not possible, bankruptcy is carried out to the end and followed by the liquidation of the company, everywhere except for us. We were able to liquidate those to whom companies owed, I'm talking about the 2000 period, four banks to which all the businesses in Serbia owed were liquidated, and so the debtors were released from debt to sell them. Of course, Sartid, as one of the biggest debtors, was then sold into depravity and one of the foreign banks was damaged, and those who participated in the sale of Sartid took the fat commissions. After all, the judicial authorities will have to put it on the agenda very soon and clear. What's going on with Belgrade Robing Houses? For three or four years it's already a bankruptcy company, it's literally shut down all the valves, workers don't enter the company. Now the company's out of business. Why? To be sold, because it's a huge capital that they have in basic assets. The amount of debts of the Belgrade Stock Houses was so much that they could use that hotel on Zlatibor and maybe some other facility that they had to settle debts and keep the department stores working. Why aren't the department stores working? Because we had to sell the market to various mega-markets, Mercators, etc. And this segment is about crime and the mafia. The bankruptcy mafia, the business mafia, the energy mafia; the mob has no name, anything that comes near her so she can pick it up, she picks it up. And if the bankruptcy has been fixed since the '90s, your typical example is Shipyard "Belgrade". Belgrade Shipyard was one of the strongest companies of its kind in Europe in 1992, with some 16 projects to build river-sea, sea yachts and eight projects for smaller ships. They worked day and night on three shifts. Since it takes five or six months for the ship to be built and handed over to the owner, they ran out of funds for trade capital. As the mob entered the Shipyard "Belgrade", the Shipyard "Belgrade" is gone today. Vuk Hamovic through his "trans bank", the same wolf who stole electricity from Serbia and sold and charged fat electricity in Serbia when he entered... The survey board came as far as it came and many things were revealed. The same Vuk Hamovic over his "trace bank" to credit the Shipyard "Belgrade", but since inflation has already begun, he binds his capital to action. Normally, the value of capital is related to the foreign exchange clause. Before inflation, Vuk Hamovic had 2.6% of the shares in the Shipyard "Belgrade", and when inflation passed, there was an estimate of both the loans and the capital of the Shipyard "Belgrade". The assessment is carried out by Deloitte and Touche, and the director of the agency who signs all this is Aleksandar Vlahovic; the value of Vuk Hamovic's capital comes out 92-93%, don't hold me by percentage, very little can be distinguished, by a percentage or two. Belgrade Shipyard, which had only a bridge crane, which at the time cost 500 million marks, sold that crane for about 50 million marks. There is bankruptcy in the shipyard and the bankruptcy manager is, imagine, Janjušević. So much for whether during the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule bankruptcy was done in one way or another, so much for who was going through companies during the rule of Slobodan Milosevic. You're a lot alike, but now the story's changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4636	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and let the MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4637	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to remind you that this law was done almost a year ago by the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation. By then, we recognized the interest of the bankruptcy law as soon as possible, because we recognized the problems facing the economy in the Republic of Serbia. The structure of economic operators and then, as it is now, it was very unfavourable. In this structure, there were a large number of business entities that had been dealing with losses and were, of course, unable to reconcile their achievements. The degree of legal certainty was unacceptablely low. Respect for contractual obligations was not a rule but, unfortunately, an exception. The principle that the contract was a law for economic operators was waived, and thus the situation was that there was complete chaos in Serbia's economic scene. The functioning of the legal system did not give and does not still produce adequate results in this area. Bank guarantees are too expensive, and the mortgage is still inadequate. Disputes in front of trade courts are unwarranted for a long time, in connection with the fulfillment of the contract, and are not a reliable instrument for the collection of due claims. All these were the reasons why it was necessary to pass this bankruptcy law. As you know, he has found himself before the MPs of this House in the previous assembly. That is why it is unclear for all of us why the DSS parliamentary group then voted to remove this law from the agenda, if today we all find it terribly important and necessary to adopt the law and set up a certain regime for the security of the functioning of the legal system. We also do not understand why other parliamentary groups did not back this law at the time, for no one today has any serious criticism of him. The ex-post mind that we all have today and that we're witnessing is something that's still cost us too much. It cost us more than a year of lost time; for more than a year, an unsettled economic situation has slowed down the privatisation process, as well as the arrival of foreign investors and continued serious transformation of the economic system in Serbia. The bankruptcy law, with its solutions so far, has not contributed significantly to the necessary selection and change of the structure of economic operators. The bill before parliament's MPs today represents significant progress. The basic provisions, in a very good way, set out the concept and objectives of bankruptcy, set two basic forms, which are bankruptcy and reorganisation. These are solutions that, according to their own concept, make it more efficient to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. The proposal presents a significant paper on the bankruptcy authority. The Board of Trustees and the Committee of Trustees shall become the mandatory bodies of the bankruptcy procedure, with significant and quite clearly defined powers. In view of the aspect of the interrelationship between economic operators, therefore, from the aspect of debt-confidential relations, bankruptcy is carried out in the interest of creditors. Be kind, and warn the messengers to obey while the other messengers speak at the pay phone. (President: Go ahead, Mrs Stojačić, I have already warned you, you have not paid attention. ) It is therefore justified that they have permanent authorities that participate in all forms of decision during the entire bankruptcy procedure. It is quite clear that the success of the bankruptcy procedure depends largely on the way the bankruptcy manager works. It is not too stressed if it is said that the bankruptcy manager, with his powers in the current bankruptcy process, was a deciding factor in the overall conduct of the bankruptcy procedure. The proposal for this law does not justifiably go to the reduction of the powers of the bankruptcy manager, but rather to the change of his relationship with other bodies in the bankruptcy procedure, with the determination of the conditions which may be appointed as insolvency administrator. The purpose of introducing a licence to perform the business of a bankruptcy manager is to guarantee its moral, professional and other quality. In this respect, the provision also goes in favour of the withdrawal of the licence from the bankruptcy administrator, the new licence cannot be issued within five years. The obligation to own and to lose a licence is aimed at increasing responsibility. All of this should contribute more effectively and efficiently to the conduct of the process. In the end, I once again underline the fact that we feel that this law is terribly important. The DS parliamentary group will vote for him. I also point out the fact that, in my opinion, the minister of justice, although he did it in a very good way, explains this law, because we think that the lack of an economy minister is something that lives and survives today's country of Serbia is really inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4638	The word has a minister, then Mr. Angelkovic, then Mr. Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4639	I don't know why there's a problem here that I'm calling for one thing that's unclear to me. The fact is that amendments to the Ministry Act have given this law to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation's portfolio, but if it is a law applying so-called law. Trade courts, which are under the jurisdiction of this ministry, that some luck, this was supposed to be with this ministry. So why is he constantly insisting that the minister of justice defends this law? I don't think there's any reason, because I'm saying, if you're looking strictly at who's doing what, you should stay in the Justice Department, because commercial courts are working under this law. And also, one of the untruths that is constantly being brought out and transferred to this government, which is -- we had the law, it hasn't been adopted in a year, and now we've lost a year. I have to say, I've looked at the previous draft of them; we've conducted valid consultations, there have been trade courts, and they've had their own consultations; we've found that there were 50 things that would not have been applicable to the law if it had been adopted in that form. For these reasons, these changes were changed and implemented correctly and another head was added, especially with the foreign element, because there was always talk that trust should be provided, especially by foreign investors, but there were no heads. Now, that head is added, and that's what they're looking for foreign creditors if we want them to invest in this country. And another thing that keeps going through here is -- why is this law, here, being passed, and there's no laws that follow. Unlike the previous government, the government has done a draft law on litigation and draft law on enforcement. The problem is that in time, they enter the congregation procedure, but they will enter in the fall. Otherwise, both of the following laws have been made and we have a full standard regarding this area. Therefore, there was no delay because someone wanted to postpone it. On the contrary, if the law had been passed, it would have been inadmissible, according to the findings of the best judges of trade courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4640	Thank you, Minister Stojkovic. The word is Mr. Angelkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4641	Just to correct the inaccuracy. It is true that we did not support the law in November last year. But there are several basic reasons for that. The first reason is that not only in this law, but in dozens of other laws, which were then proposed, the intention to avoid one inescapable, which is to call an early parliamentary election. It wasn't really an idea or an intention to adopt laws that were on the agenda. The second thing, of course, we wouldn't vote then, even if it hadn't happened, for that law, because it would be crazy for that government that has completely lost credibility to be in a position to choose bankruptcy managers like Janjusevic, because then we wouldn't have, in the right sense of that word, the implementation of this law. The third, the minister said, was that there were fundamental changes in this bill, which in fact change the concept of the proposal that existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4642	Thank you. Ambassador Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4643	I don't know why, with criticism from the current government, the Serbian Radical Party has also been criticised for not passing this law last November. But that ex-post mind you're talking about could apply to you, too. You've ruled for nearly three years without this law. All those mistakes you made that ruined the economy happened during the time you were able to pass this law. It didn't suit you at the time that this law was passed. That's the kind of situation in the economy that suits you. I could ask you why the Serbian banks were destroyed, first of all. Why did they not move on to another kind of ownership? Why did they leave before the debt settlement with the Paris and the London Club? Well, then I could ask you a lot of questions - how many out-of-date contracts did you admit, even though you had no right to do that? So -- how many bankruptcys were made to keep the companies completely robbed? And it's really not right to refer to the bill you submitted in November last year. It was a straw grab, the government fell and passed the system law. And now we say -- we've been a good government, two and a half years we didn't know what to do, now we know, let us work now, now we're going to work well. You didn't know you were working well. They don't even know these new good works - it's obvious. And it's going to show up very soon. Therefore, as we were in the situation last year that it was known that there would be an emergency parliamentary election, here and now we are in the same situation. Maybe one of us sees it before others, maybe others will see it in 15 or 20 days, maybe in a month, but Serbia will have extraordinary parliamentary elections. Extraordinary parliamentary elections! I don't care what it looks like to be a government that enforces the same law. I don't care what parties in the government that are now implementing the law written last year, during another government, which has been disastrously defeated in the elections. That's what you need to understand. The makeup of the proposal, the draft law written by the Democratic Party, is not enough. It takes a whole new law, a whole new relationship to our economy. And when you're called to change the economy minister, you can say that even the previous minister never hit the factory gate on the back when he got out of work, never, and he never saw what the factory looked like. Yes, in these transnge-frange companies, where capital is estimated and estimated where it can be stolen, there it is. And where you can buy cheap and who you can buy cheap - that's it. And, production, what's been a cancer wound for three years, none of the previous government, nor the current one can organize, and he's never even organized on a micro plan, let alone on a macroeconomic plan. You destroyed it on October 6th and beyond, when you broke the spine of the Serbian economy, when you kicked people out of the company just because they belonged... (President-Time) The SPS, and then you looked at computer records of whether you had a member in that factory and he was taking over the factory. That's why we won't have production, and then you can talk about whatever you want and about the cost of life, about inflation, about the standard. As long as there is no production in Serbia, and every day is less, despite the revised indicators on which you show it, as long as there is no production and as long as the budget is charged with spending, and as long as we are in charge of filling the budget, because we can't even fill it out, there's nothing from the Serbian economy. Now, find me a country, there are them in the environment, that can live without economy. Serbia cannot live without production... (President: four minutes and 18 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Keep talking about how good your laws are. Until you get the factory running, don't show up here at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4644	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, a replica. Let me run a session around the Rules of Procedure. The replica is to present the head of the SRS parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a warmly persistent, years-long attempt by the parliamentary group, which in the 1990s shared power and which is responsible for all "success", in other words for all the failures achieved in the 1990s, for the collapse and destruction of the Serbian economy, for destroying the citizens' standard of living; it is my personal sympathies to say that the backbone of the Serbian economy was broken on October 5th. No, gentlemen, the backbone of the Serbian economy was broken in the 1990s, when you were in a completely irresponsible way leading economic policy in this country and when millions of people worked in jobs and did not receive salaries, they were not paid contributions to pension and health insurance, and when a large number of workers, losing their jobs, found their new jobs on the black market, per flea market -- these are the results of your economic policy. This is what Serbian citizens know very well and did not buy the frauds that are being sent daily in the populist manner, which we could see in previous elections, which were won by the Democratic Party candidate Mr Boris Tadic. Never did DS MPs, nor did the government in which the Democratic Party was in, propose legal solutions to extend the century to their government. And it is not true that the bankruptcy law entered Serbia's parliament in November, but entered in June. You've had plenty of time to study that proposal. And it's not true that these and other legal projects have tried to extend the duration of the previous government. We've never been demagogue to the legislative work of this body, so we're not going to do it today. Today, the question is what would happen to the fate of this government if the Democratic Party said no, we will vote against this law. We are not going to say this because the petty political goals, the petty political interests are not at all worthy of the country's interest in obtaining a good procedural law that will regulate this matter and allow a large part of the Serbian economy to resuscitate. It is not true that there have been major changes compared to the previously offered legal project. On the contrary, six amendments were incorporated from the previous call, plus four new amendments that formally regulate the position of the bankruptcy manager and insert a chapter with a foreign element. You could hear from the reasons of the People's MP of the Democratic Party why this chapter in the previous proposal was not treated at all... (President: Forty-five seconds, Mr. Vlahovic. )......................................................................................................... Because of the different approach, on the one hand, I end up, and on the other hand, the European Union in this part, which, by the way, is still not fully in line. Therefore, demagogy, political populistism has never been or will be something that will identify the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party wants good for this country and will vote for this law despite the fact that in the event that the Democratic Party does not vote, the question is what the fate of this law would be. We will vote because this is good for our country and for our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4646	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic. Please, because, in addition to all the well-meaning, speakers persistently abuse, after the first, second and third warnings, I will really be forced to turn off the microphone for three and a half minutes after the first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4647	It's a violation of article 100. The dignity of the National Assembly is not respected here. First, if the bill was passed in June, why didn't the government ask for an emergency session, if it was urgent for the law to be passed. At that time, it is not up to the president of the Assembly to decide what will be on the agenda, but rather for the government to decide on a request for an extraordinary session. Yours was the president of the assembly, and if you cared about the law being passed, you'd be brought in. Second, what particularly hurt the dignity of the National Assembly? I was not defeated by the Democratic Party candidate. I beat him in the first round. I was won by NATO candidate in the second round. Whenever you want, you Democratic Party, let's go to election one at a time, whenever you want, for whatever elections you want. Let's go one-on-one, see who the citizens love. As far as populistism is concerned, I did not say in the campaign that if I win, I would bring Serbia into Europe. That's what your candidate said, and the day before yesterday I heard from the head of his election staff that it was going to be 2011. So much for populistism, my dear gentlemen. When the Democratic Party cleaned up Kolesar, Janjusevic, it was obvious that he had to go with them and whoever allowed them to rob.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4648	The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and let the National MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4649	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the matter of bankruptcy has so far been governed by two legal regulations, and the Law on Enterprises of 1988 and its amendments to 1989 and the Law on Force alignment, liquidation and bankruptcy. If we were to look at legal regulation, we could say freely and conclude that the issue of bankruptcy has been regulated so far. The new draft bankruptcy law certainly brings some newspapers and should be discussed and discussed. However, I would like to stress that the economic recycling of the entities that have fallen in an adequate manner has been regulated under the previous Law on Force alignment and bankruptcy. Now bankruptcy is being introduced as the first form and the second form is the reorganisation, i.e. the resuscitation of business entities. If we're talking about bankruptcy, first of all, we're thinking about protecting creditors, and if we're talking about this second form of recycling of economic operators, it's about protecting creditors, but also about a creditor, 50 to 50, like equal parts. In particular, I would like to stress that according to the provisions of this bankruptcy law, one newspaper on working relations is now being introduced. The opening of a bankruptcy procedure creates a specific situation where there is no automatic termination of the working relationship of the person employed in the economic operator, but the possibility of these persons being fired is opened. Under the previous law, this came under the system of automation. By opening a bankruptcy procedure, all persons were out of working relationships, and they had stopped working. They were followed by their application to the labour market, and then by the bankruptcy manager calling and performing certain ad hoc jobs. What's important in this whole process is the fact that opening a bankruptcy procedure, in fact, is one agony for an economic operator, and nothing else. With this new system, we come up with an absurd situation, which is that the worker does not automatically get to stop working, but is waiting for the outcome of the bankruptcy process. This bankruptcy procedure, as predicted by the applicant, may take a year, but in practice it will certainly take longer. What does that mean? Workers will not go to the labour market and will not be kept unemployed, but after a year they can be cancelled. This just wants to cover up the unemployment in our country. Namely, only after a year or so. the period elapsed for the conduct of the bankruptcy proceedings shall result in the registration of those persons as unemployed. We think this is kind of a similar formulation as it was before, but in this period, the dangoose worker, he's not getting along and there's no other solution. Therefore, from the point of view of workers and from the social aspect, such a solution can be a sword with two blades. When we talk about the liability of the bankruptcy manager, we heard from MPs (and I absolutely agree with them) that the question of the liability of the bankruptcy manager is not adequately regulated. Namely, it is not provided for what it corresponds to and how much property is intended as a limit for someone to be a bankruptcy manager. I'd look at it from another aspect, namely, from the point of view of the state. The question arises, if such a legal solution remains, who will be passively legitimate if there is damage in the bankruptcy proceedings. I guarantee and I am sure that a passively legitimate person will be a state, that is, the Republic of Serbia. Namely, he who is defied and who is struck by bankruptcy, to whom the damage is done, will be actively legitimate to sue the state in litigation and to compensate the state for its damage. I don't think we should let this happen. When it comes to the liability of the bankruptcy manager, I would point out that if it is a company with a majority social or state capital, then bankruptcy proceedings are conducted by a specialised institution established by a special regulation. It's provided for in the legal text. However, behind this is the fact that it is the Privatisation Agency. I believe that in our frameworks, the Privatisation Agency is indeed under question. To conduct bankruptcy proceedings in the jurisdiction of the agency whose work has been assessed so far as being negative is absurd. We must not allow large companies with majority government and social capital to be under the authority of the Privatisation Agency. I think that in this context the question should be asked - if in these cases the Privatisation Agency conducts bankruptcy proceedings, which corresponds to and corresponds to the Privatisation Agency, whether it is a bankruptcy manager, a bankruptcy judge or a bankruptcy major. There's no question about that in this proposal. When we talk about the Privatisation Agency and its responsibilities, we must say that there is no regulated question whether there is a subjective responsibility for persons who have received a licence under the Agency for Enterprises, or whether it is a responsibility under the Agency's objective responsibility system. All these facts must be regulated by law, because in practice they will always be as we are, namely these questions will be repeated all the time. As far as bankruptcy managers are concerned, I'd say two or three more sentences. I don't see from this proposal that there's a ranking of these managers and how they're elected by the authorities. Namely, what conditions must be met by bankruptcy managers and what they must do to obtain a license, but no list of criteria is provided for how they will be elected by trade courts. I think this has to be done in some way to prevent those friendly, godfather ties we've had so far in setting up bankruptcy managers. When we talk about bankruptcy, we have to say that there is one problem in terms of bankruptcy. It said that the bankruptcy mass is all the property that the economic operator has in the country and abroad. We are witnessing that many of our companies have been blocked by assets abroad. What if it happens again and who will be responsible for such a failure? In these cases, we must distinguish two things. The first thing is that the company may have assets abroad, but bankruptcy creditors cannot be charged and another option is to block assets abroad without some emphasis on the rights of creditors. I think the law requires that this matter be channeled as well. In the end, I'd like to say something about criminal provisions. In this regard, Article 182 provides for a criminal offence - unwitting work in bankruptcy proceedings. The essential features of this crime, among other things, are that a responsible person in a bankruptcy procedure may have certain failures, unwitting work, and this foresees a direct imagination as a form of responsibility, predicting possible imagination, conscious inadequacy, but also unconscious inadequacy. I cannot agree, and on behalf of the SRS, I point out that this failure should be removed in time. Namely, if we have prescribed that the persons who can carry out this procedure are qualified, that they have passed the exams, that they have a license, that they are three years old in their employment, I can't see how such a person can be responsible for unconsciousness. So it may be a conscious indiscretion, but it's not about unconsciousness. For these reasons, I suggest that the amendments submitted by the SRS be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4650	The People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4651	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious from previous discussions of MPs that all political parties that have representatives in this House agree on one conclusion, which is that the situation in the Serbian economy is bad or, rather, extremely bad, in other words, catastrophic. In this regard, the assessments of individual political parties are different, and on the merits of individual parties, I would say very briefly, the merits are all of those governments, or all of those political parties that by February of this year, back three, five, eight, ten or fifteen years of government. There is no current Republic Government headed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica for the state of business of any negative merits. However, it is obvious that the proposal for this law and the proposal for other laws in the domain of finance or tax laws makes it possible for the current government to put this situation in economy on a sound basis, i.e. to allow the competition of economic operators. This and this kind of bankruptcy law, regardless of who it is made of and at this point, is unnecessary and illusory to discuss it, is in line with some European, global principles, therefore, the principles of the European Community and the principles of European integration. These are the principles that apply around most countries in Europe and those principles, institutes and legal solutions that seek to unite this area of Europe where Serbia is, and it is a matter of time before Serbia enters the European Union. In this way, the bill on bankruptcy proceedings has been shortened. However, the adoption of this law alone will not solve all issues and all problems of the Serbian economy. It would be illusory and inconclusive to expect significant shifts or shifts to some short pathways, except that it would cease to apply the current bankruptcy act, which created extremely large problems and in practice allowed the transfer of social or state capital, whatever they say, into private pockets; it allowed for a working bankruptcy or bankruptcy procedure that took place for years, where the substance of business operators has been persistently and systematically sucked out for years. There's been a significant number of companies, I mean successful companies, which could function after bankruptcy or reorganisation, change owners in a magical way; we're witnessing various affairs. It's what he's brought to this very current, bad law that, I must admit, no actors, no economic and legal entities have respected. Therefore, such a modern bankruptcy law will allow bankruptcy to last as short as possible, because it is an emergency situation with which the economic operator is located. In the event that it is not possible to revive the production of that economic operator, or its reorganisation, there is bankruptcy and liquidation of the company. This law will create part of the conditions for a competition, as I said, and will allow for the inflow of not only foreign capital, and when I mention foreign capital, I mean the capital of foreign states, or legal entities, and also our citizens, either on temporary work abroad, or as residents of other countries. So, through this bankruptcy law, where the trustee is heavily protected -- or the person who invests or intends to invest money, or capital to a significant extent, has the protection of his money, or capital -- will accelerate investment of capital and enable the competition of economic operators. As I said, it is unreasonable to expect that the bankruptcy law will, in the short run, produce significant positive consequences, but within the framework of other laws, I mentioned the laws of the domain of finance, as well as the domains of other economic circumstances, will lead to some improvement in the economic situation, i.e. reviving economic development in Serbia. Someone mentioned earlier that without strong businesses, without strong economy, whether it is agriculture, precise mechanics or computer technology, there is neither a stable nor a democratic state. I fully agree with that, and I underline in the end that the proposed laws by the current Republic government are what will allow Serbia to move as quickly as possible at this time, towards European unifications and towards reviving the economic situation in Serbia. Therefore, the current Republic Government needs to be supported, without much demagogy, without parole, without false dilemmas, because, as I said, that ends, the situation is extremely bad, and only these measures the government proposes can lead to improvement. Therefore, this law and the following laws, and in particular the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, should be adopted without doubt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4652	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4653	I've recorded a few things that I think I need to explain. There's been a variety of objections here. One is that perhaps this law is not bad, others say that because of the existing laws, our economy is sinking, and the third is thought that if this law is passed, there will be another million unemployed. I wanted to point out one important thing here. The possibility of resuscitating the company is given here, which means that one part of the workers wouldn't go to the street. In a situation where bankruptcy, i.e. bankruptcy, is possible, the majority of cases of the state is a trustee and will be obliged to provide a particular social programme and solutions for these large companies. In that situation, I don't think there's gonna be that much increase in workers without a job. It has also been indicated that one of the intended means of selling assets is called a free contract. It has been pointed out that this could lead to corruption and company sales again. I'd like to point to the fact that it's just one of the ways, that's the possibility of selling property, and that's usually when the previous three don't come true. What prevents this possibility from selling because under the free contract system is the need to ensure the consent of the trustees' board. So, one who has a claim and how it leads to a situation like this. Also, several MPs pointed out that this law is not enough for itself and that it should be made miles. I have already pointed out in the previous report - indeed a law on litigation has been made which should speed up and simplify the procedure and the law on the executive procedure that should allow faster and safer payment of claims by creditors. Normally, with certain protection of debtors. In that sense, I think the miles are completely rounded. In the end, I'd just like to point out that there was one clear legal question here. What does the question of firing by automation that the former law provides for? I think what we have now is one step forward. There is no automation, there are no street workers, and if there is a number of economic operators that need to be reorganised, a good number of workers stay at work and really work. It's not true he doesn't do anything. On the contrary, it does, and if the programme is implemented, and the deadlines are short, that's exactly what it's all about, then there will be others, possibly, to work and to get the company to work properly. For those reasons, I don't think this objection was the most accurate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4654	I thank the Minister. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. (The Faith of Radeta, from place: five minutes is up to two and we have no quorum. Break. Seven minutes. The SRS usually has ten minutes left, so I think we can listen to MP Peter Jojic. (Doljub Stamenkovic, from the post: Kvorum. Do you have any suggestions? Please, if you have a proposal, and if not, MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4655	According to the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you pre-determin the quorum, so if there is a quorum to continue, and if there is no quorum, the time is already there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4656	National MP Petar Jojic asked us to determine the quorum. I suggest we proceed at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing with the first item of the agenda - the draft law on bankruptcy proceedings. There are 95 MPs present on the official record in the O.R. Please determine the quorum before work begins. I ask the Members of Parliament to put in their MPs' cards. Thank you. By applying the electronic system, we find that 89 MPs are present in the O.R. At first, pursuant to Article 24(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that there has been a change in the parliamentary group of DS. The president of the parliamentary group has been appointed Bojan Pajtic, a folk MP. We're continuing our work on the agenda. The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only point out some indifference and contradictions concerning the draft law on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants and the objections to the law on bankruptcy proceedings. Namely, in Article 3. Proposal for a law on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants in Item 1(4) is proposed that the Agency conducts the following tasks... (President: This is the next point, not connected. I know. They are extremely in line, and contrary to the draft bankruptcy law. In Article 3. The proposal discusses the activities of the Agency; these transactions are repeated in the draft bankruptcy law. In terms of the content of the proposal, and in Article 3, what the agency is doing, it says - it monitors the work and monitors the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Article 12 of the bankruptcy act speaks of what a bankruptcy judge is doing and what his powers are. The bankruptcy judge, among other things, in point 7(1), shall carry out the tasks of overseeing the work of the bankruptcy administrator. So it doesn't make sense that the authority of the administration takes over the judicial function. It's my remark, and I don't think this should stand here, as far as the agency is concerned, because, as I said, in Article 12, it's proposed that these jobs be done by a bankruptcy judge, which is perfectly natural and normal. As for Article 3(3) of the bankruptcy act, the procedural nature is the next observation. The objection to this article refers to a proposal which norms us that if the procedure is initiated on a proposal from a trustee who, in a court or tax enforcement procedure, could not settle his claim, the previous bankruptcy procedure will not be carried out, nor will it be proved that the creditor is over-indebted, but will immediately initiate bankruptcy proceedings. I believe that until all the possibilities are exhausted in the ordinary procedure, and in the executive procedure, execution should not be conducted, the bankruptcy procedure should not be initiated, because the bankruptcy procedure costs both the state and the debtors and the creditors. So, all possibilities need to be exhausted, and only in the end, as a necessary evil, should it be the launch of a bankruptcy procedure. As regards objections to Article 6, it is necessary to delete from this proposal the words - or predominantly. It is cases where the law does not apply; among other things this bill provides - exclusively or predominantly. The SRS thinks it should stand - exclusively financing, and in no case - or mainly. This "mostly" leads to a delay in the process, inadequacy and ineffectiveness. If this proposal remained "or mainly", then it would happen in practice that some entities would not be covered by this law. As regards procedural objections to Article 14 which provides that the agency should supervise the bankruptcy manager, this is in collapsing with Article 12(7) of the Law on insolvency proceedings, as it provides for the supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers to be carried out by a bankruptcy judge. In no case can anyone from the administration control the work of the court. That's where two things get intertwined. Therefore, the conflict is between Article 6 and Article 12 of the proposed text of the law. As for the objections to Article 21, it is unacceptable for the minister to set the criteria for the award of bankruptcy managers; there are many criteria on the basis of which the height of the award should be determined by the bankruptcy manager. It is not an accident, because in practice, bankruptcy managers have done great damage to companies over which bankruptcy has been carried out. As for Article 22, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not clear what it means - the first confidential hearing. First of all, it is necessary to establish at the hearing for the examination of the applicant's claim of their right, and only then to form organs and choose the congregation. In Article 35 of this proposal, points 3 and 4 should be linked. It shouldn't stand as it is in this proposal, for the reason that someone who shouldn't have a priority over the trustees is again protected in this way. Here you have the order to collect claims, so it goes back to the benefit of the state, not that the trustee and the state have the same position and equal treatment. So far, we have had a debt lobby that was protected before the adoption of the new Executive Procedure Act, but this will again introduce one injustice, contrary to the Constitution, and all entities will not be on the same level, they will not have equal rights. In any case, the state will have a priority to collect its claims, but I think these points 3) and 4) should be joined together and some things would be improved in this article. In Article 88(3), it is proposed that the bankruptcy administrator should submit to the court and the trustee board an initial bankruptcy balance with the report. But he can't do that, because there's not yet a bankruptcy manager or a trustee's board. The previous question hasn't been resolved and he can't be here, because he doesn't belong, because as such he still doesn't exist. As for Article 95, this article should be deleted. Why? The deadline must be exceeded. In no case should the deadlines be extended if we want the procedure to be effective and shortened. Therefore, I believe that the deadline in the law must be exceeded and no one should be allowed to delay the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. As regards Article 111, after the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, the functions of all insolvency authorities, such as the Director, the Management Board, the Assembly, the Supervisory Board, etc. shall cease. Only the bankruptcy administrator at that stage assumes the role of all the organs of the creditor, as regards Article 129 of this Act, because all these bodies cease and only then remain the creditor. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be a matter of procedural shortcomings in the proposal and one law and the other. I think that these remarks that I made should be entered, so it should be changed, deleted; that will improve the text of the law, because in practice they will be in collegiate with each other. First, the law on the licensing agency of bankruptcy managers with the bankruptcy law, and also individual provisions and individual members will be mutually opposite, and thus in practice the competent authorities will not be able to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4659	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji. He's giving up. The word is by MP Zoran Micovic. He's not there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4660	Dear fellow Members of the People, allow me to say a few more words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group about this law. It is undeniable that a bankruptcy law is needed, as a large number of businesses in Serbia are in a state of bankruptcy and it is undeniable that certain measures must be taken to resolve the issue. Generally speaking, now, in 2004, it can be said freely that Serbia's entire economy is in bankruptcy and that the application of this law will cause different, but in our opinion, beyond what the legislator predicted, negative effects, because if the law is consistently applied suddenly, a large number of people will find themselves in a completely new situation and still be unemployed, besides those millions and some unemployed. Serbia will be in one state of bankruptcy and unemployment. I mention this issue of bankruptcy for the simple reason that I think the promoter was in a situation, I'm not going to say he was obliged, but it would be good if we had, if at all possible, and these numerical data related to the current state of the Serbian economy, because the very category of bankruptcy in recent years has been misused. And, in the case of certain large enterprises, and of course those who have significant assets and attractive locations, and above all in Belgrade, bankruptcy was used to quietly privatise, in a small way, essentially rob these companies. Namely, it is not unknown, and the data published in the public over the past two or three years show clearly that the bankruptcy of Sartida, Inexa, Centrotekstila, Beograd Robing Houses, Atexa and Beka, and I mentioned only six large companies, was one way to take over the power of these companies, and then implement their privatisation and an essential part of social wealth goes into private pockets. If Beko was at the time when the bankruptcy was introduced had a total property of 42m euros, while the claims were only 6m euros. The debt was 14.2% of the total assets. According to data presented in the public, 15m euros in property in Croatia that will be subject to an interstate agreement is not accounted for and will likely be compensated, or immovable property, also in Croatia. Quite quickly, ad hoc approached the bankruptcy of this company, a huge number of workers practically lost their jobs and everything that means working status, and forced administration, or bankruptcy was introduced; although, according to various people, even then authorities, only selling two department stores in the city center was enough to get this company out of bankruptcy. A similar situation was, I say again, according to the press, and regarding the bankruptcy of Sartida, where the company was sold through bankruptcy for a ridiculous and small amount compared to the estimated assets. It was sold for 23 million dollars, and the total liabilities that were related to the company were practically handed over to the state, so the state itself, and the citizens, will pay what was done in these companies. It would be good if we were in a position to get from the Court of Commerce in Belgrade and a list of people who were bankruptcy managers. Not those who were in one or two companies, but there were people who were bankruptcy managers in 6, 7, 8 companies. I think a list of those names would be better than anything to show what the essence of privatisation was in the way it was implemented. In fact, one law, which apparently suffers from its shortcomings, has been used in a perfided way to make individuals an enormous wealth and to resell these companies. If you looked at a list of these managers who were in five, six or seven companies, you'd see a lot of things. According to the knowledge I have, none of the people who worked in the Government of the Republic of Serbia until 2000, counselors, not to mention, God forbid, ministers and the like, were either a bankruptcy administrator or anything like that. This could not be said of the previous government, where we had an eclectic example that the man who was the Prime Minister for Security Affairs was also the bankruptcy manager of the Belgrade Shipyard without talking about conflict of interest and the like. I'm sorry we don't have those lists, but if we could look at them we'd probably come up with very clear data that the reasons for the delay in some laws, the mentioning of the Law of Conflict of Interest, or the one about the bankruptcy procedure, are very simple. It was supposed to be done. These companies degrade and then sell them for small money, because after that, everything will be clean, the property has gone into private pockets and then the consequences are absolutely bad. We do not say that this law in front of the Serbian Parliament is ideal. We believe that there are reasons and grounds for individual provisions of this law to be amended and that they can be improved in amendment. It would be good to hear from the promoter why some SPS amendments, and we have submitted 18 amendments, have not been accepted. It would help both us and the public to explain some of the amendments, or to say why they were not the subject of this acceptance. I'll just mention some of them. In particular, Article 6 of the bankruptcy act states that no bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro, territorial autonomy units and local self-government are cited, etc. We have here proposed a seemingly simple amendment. We have suggested that there is a mandatory guarantee of the founder's budget at the end of the deadlines set out in this law. Why am I saying this? There is a hypothetical situation for local self-government to be in a business relationship with an economic operator, that there are obligations to that economic operator and that this entity may be subject to bankruptcy and that local self-government is not in a position to make commitments and that the company practically comes into bankruptcy. I'm saying this from the point of view of the real thing, because it's already happening. Under circumstances, I have a letter from the Vladimirs, where due to some previous obligations and decisions of the municipal court local self-government will be in a position to lose i.e. She's short three million dinars in her budget. So some business obligations have to be carried out and that can have a negative effect. I'm talking about something already subject to practice. Or, why should it be necessary to bind the status of a bankruptcy manager to the status of a private entrepreneur? We believe that the conditions for the appointment of a bankruptcy manager should not be cumulative, and this is stated in Article 14 of this Act. It would be good if the motionary would explain to us what it takes for someone to be a bankruptcy manager. Whether or not the need to be a private entrepreneur is also considered, or whether it is something to do after obtaining a license to perform the business of a bankruptcy manager. So we're also proposing some deadlines for drawing up a bankruptcy plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, given the fact that bankruptcy is being conducted mainly over small and medium-sized enterprises. When it comes to an amendment regulating the order of settlement of creditors, we have proposed that all outstanding net earnings of employees in the amount of minimum earnings, i.e. all outstanding contributions, be included in the second payment order. The promoter proposed only within two years. So, unfortunately, there will be people who haven't been in a situation for years to get their own income and a paid contribution to pension and disability insurance, they won't be able to regulate this issue, so the question is, why just two years? There are more amendments, but I'll only mention one more. He's tied to Article 111 that regulates the sale process. We believe that a direct contract should simply be excluded from the sale process because this way of selling the previous years is absolutely misused. Namely, competitions and tenders were not reported by business entities and then, in a direct contract, the value of the company was so impaired that only a small amount could be charged. The only person interested in the whole story was the one who made direct arrangements with the people who conducted the bankruptcy procedure, which was usually the one who became the owner of the huge wealth for small money. In any case, it's good that the bankruptcy law is passed. It would be good if we, as well as the promoters of several amendments, and I think the public of Serbia, heard the proposals - the Government of the Republic of Serbia in relation to our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4661	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To Article 2. ... Excuse me, Minister Zoran Stojkovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4662	Dear Members, I will give the information requested. About 800 bankruptcys are being conducted; you have about a hundred and thirty bankruptcy managers. So it's three to four, and I agree that's a big problem. Liaison to the Law of the Entrepreneurs is actually due to the possibility of collecting the damage it would cause. In other cases, e.g. A limited-response society, you'd only be answering until then, and here you can do anything. You can do security in another way -- insurance, etc., but this is one of the safer methods. We didn't tie to any further lines, as you explain, to get a cleaner model. This could go on forever. So, we're not saying that practice over time won't show that there's anything else to dress up, but this is, in our opinion, one big step to achieve the elimination of exactly what you've stated, that we don't come into such a situation anymore to sell out property for why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4663	National MP Milomir Minic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law because Article 14 itself regulates how someone can be a bankruptcy manager. Paragraph 1 states - for a bankruptcy manager, a person who has obtained a license to perform the business of a bankruptcy manager, who has the status of a private entrepreneur and who has three years of working experience can be appointed. With my amendment, I asked that Article 14 be changed and that it reads: "For a bankruptcy manager, a person who has high professional equipment can be appointed, has the appropriate working experience in the business of managing economic operators and which is registered in the register of judicial experts." The Proposer, or Government, rejects my amendment with an explanation that no such rigorous licence is required for bankruptcy managers and that it is quite enough that the licence itself will regulate the verification of its professional calling. It means that a bankruptcy manager in one company can be a person who has never been led by a single economic operator. It will be sufficient for him to know when passing an expert examination what is active in accounting, what is passive, what is the company's accounting value, to assess the company's market value; that is, according to some standards, quite enough for the bankruptcy manager. However, the question is now being raised -- this may well be enough for a company to end up in bankruptcy, but what if the subject of bankruptcy should be an enterprise that will continue to live and work. Will such a bankruptcy manager be able to accept the responsibility of leading a business entity, in this case the subject of bankruptcy, and it is successful, because he had one only day to run a company, to determine the fate of people, i.e. workers and members of their families, or has already been limited by this law that most of the companies that are going to be bankrupt will end up in bankruptcy? Whether it is a work experience of three years provided by the legislator enough, whether the expert prepares enough, whether it has done similar work - it is not regulated anywhere in the law, but is left to some agency to regulate it by some sublaws. If it counts that most companies, and even those privatized, will end up in bankruptcy, I think this matter, in any case, will have to be regulated by law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4665	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4666	Article 14 and those three members of the transitional and final provisions of the bankruptcy law, as well as the second item of the agenda, which is the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, simply take off the mask and show what our reality is and what we can expect. Article 14 states that if we ignore these inaccuracies, that a license can be granted to a person who has high professional equipment and who has passed a professional license exam, he is given twice the licence. I guess who passed the exam to do the business of a bankruptcy manager... But it doesn't matter. The final position of that member says: "In the process of carrying out bankruptcy against a legal person who is in the majority state, or social property for a bankruptcy manager, will in nominate a specialised institution established by a special regulation, which must have employees who have a licence under Article 1 of this Article. "The reasons for the adoption of this law are precisely social and state-owned enterprises. The bill does not give us a solution to who will do it, whether it will be the bankruptcy agency, whether it will be the Privatisation Agency, as the agency will be called. In transitional and final provisions, with all inaccuracies, Art. 185, 186, 187 and 188, if the court has not reached a decision on the deposit of assets, the existing bankruptcy proceedings will continue under the provisions of this new law. If a decision has been taken to cash and the cash has not been made within six months, the bankruptcy procedure will be terminated in accordance with the provisions of this law, but see paragraph 3. what is said - the other bankruptcy proceedings will be initiated until the date of entry into force of this law, it will continue under the provisions of the law under which they begin. Who's going to make that clear? So, all the provisions of this law and the one that follows, as far as the bankruptcy manager is concerned, that so-called. a licensed bankruptcy manager, concerned private enterprises, not social enterprises. Then why are you yelling about how you're going to solve the bankruptcy problem and these silent privatisations in the bankruptcy process, whether it's a reorganization or something? In the end, say that bankruptcy proceedings take a long time. When licensed bankruptcy managers do so, they will lead to bankruptcy of private companies. There's no problem with private companies today. You have a voluntary bankruptcy, you have this acting bankruptcy, you have an executive procedure, you have a sixth category when the trustee comes and collects himself. You don't give a solution to what's most important, and it's a social enterprise. You just heard the information for 800 of the biggest social enterprises. That's where you talk about the consequences of the old law, and I'm telling you that this law will not eliminate those consequences, too. In Jugoexport, the bankruptcy manager is Aleksandar Pavlovic, mother counselor, sister Jasmina also, two uncles are there, and he is the owner of a company, something with CD radio, 15 thousand square meters of business space. And, of course, it was made possible by the president of the Kljajevic Trade Court. It's the one who sings the song if, so he keeps sending us a letter. It's a similar situation in other trade courts. You're saying it's a long-term bankruptcy procedure. It takes a long time, because this bankruptcy procedure is not conducted by a bankruptcy judge, nor by a bankruptcy officer, but by those who hold real power. They're through a bankruptcy manager and a bankruptcy judge pulling that property out. So, you've accepted it and you want that silent painless form of privatisation. You've turned working bankruptcy into a reorganisation, and that concerns, first of all, social enterprises. You don't have a solution for social enterprises, but you're looking at a more painless way to destroy them. If you would accept this amendment, then there would be no such imaginary licensed bankruptcy managers, but persons who know the job to work. After all, Dinkic was an expert, Batic deleted him later because of conflicts of interest, but you will see how many provisions there are that you are making something that is unnecessary. And don't forget just one thing, by your concept of the law, the bankruptcy manager is a trustee, not a representative of the state, a representative of the law, but a representative of the trustees who will best protect the interests of the trustees. When you translate that into the social sector and social enterprises, you will see that it is not applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4667	The word has a National MP, Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to take a brief look at the discussion of the problem presented by my colleague Krasic. In principle, I cited the fact that the draft of this text states that in the process of carrying out bankruptcy on a legal person who is in the majority state or social property for a bankruptcy manager will in no way appoint a specialised institution established by a special regulation. The proposer’s explanation says – for the majority social and state-owned enterprises the role of the bankruptcy manager is performed by the Privatisation Agency. This text and this argument give one contradiction. Kola Krasic and I together ask the promoter what is true, whether the Privatisation Agency will actually implement the bankruptcy procedure as a bankruptcy manager, or if it will be something outside of this. You were saying that one group prescribed the law from another, and it seems to me that the basic text was changed and the argument remained the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4669	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4670	This is a member of a law that prescribes conditions and reasons that prevent a person from being elected as a bankruptcy manager. The government does not accept the amendment of the SRS as a proponent of this law, and the amendment reads that in Article 15(1), point (10) reads: "selected, appointed and appointed persons in the bodies of the state administration, administrative and similar organisations". This means that these faces cannot be appointed as a bankruptcy manager, and that would mean that Janjusevic could not be a bankruptcy manager. The government doesn't accept it, it's probably calling for some of the regulations that have been passed in the meantime, I guess it's a law on banning conflicts of interest, etc., but the government also needs to know that we forget very quickly what is in one law, very quickly. I just read your names, citing an example of the whole family running a bankruptcy procedure over a social enterprise. That's how it's going to be with licensed bankruptcy managers over private companies, because he has private enterprise status, he hires his family, it's the cheapest, the cheapest costs he can make, and the higher profits he makes. I think it would be good for this point to be in this article just in case, if for nothing else then because of the legislator, not to move on Kljajevic or similar Kljajevic. Laugh you, but it may happen to pass, so that a senior state official, elected, appointed or appointed, personally, through a sister-in-law or someone else is involved in breaking up a private enterprise or being involved in an agency that is to conduct bankruptcy over social enterprises. For now it's 800, be sure, it'll be a lot more and then let's not be surprised here that someone as a bankruptcy manager has offended and shown a lower value of property and thus made it possible to make it completely legal in a bankruptcy procedure to carry out silent privatisation. I'm going to remind you of that provision of your law that says that opening a bankruptcy procedure doesn't stop the working relationship by force of the law to employees, but the bankruptcy manager decides who he's going to leave at the job. If you take into account these standards, ingenuity and insight and the possibility of Janjušević entering the small door and similar to him, then don't be surprised that someone cheated on you and that you pretend to be naive, that you didn't know what was going on. This amendment tells you in advance what can happen in practice. Accept the amendment and remove these problems that will surely occur in bankruptcy procedures, especially when it comes to social enterprises. In private companies, it won't be a problem, but you don't pass this law because of private businesses. You're not ballast private companies, there's a clean bill. You're a ballast big giant, big companies with several thousand employees. What can happen if Janjušević comes as a bankruptcy manager under your new law, think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4671	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4672	Article 15. The draft bankruptcy law lists nine conditions when someone cannot be elected as a bankruptcy manager. The amendment a colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic has submitted to this member provides for the addition of another item that would read - elected, appointed and appointed in the authorities of the state administration, administrative and similar organisations cannot be bankruptcy managers. The amendment aimed to prevent the affairs of Janjusevic and Kolesar and to prevent the abuse of bankruptcy proceedings at the level of local self-government. It's amazing that the government didn't accept such an amendment that doesn't touch you in the essence of the law, but it was indeed the goal of improving this legal text, extremely well-intentioned. Imagine now what the Government is saying in its explanation, it says that the amendment is not accepted, since the concept of the bill is precisely such that it promotes the profession of the bankruptcy manager (imaginatively, a new profession is being promoted), predicting a greater role, but also greater obligations and responsibilities, and that it makes it impossible to work at the same time in the profession of the bankruptcy manager as a secondary activity. This automatically excludes the possibility of a person appointed or appointed in the bodies of the state administration, administrative and similar organisations at the same time performing the tasks of the bankruptcy administrator. So what the Government has given as an explanation of why this amendment refuses simply does not correspond to the text of Article 15, which, for example, in point 6) says that a bankruptcy administrator cannot be a person who is a creditor of a creditor or who is employed by a trustee. So, the government tried to use this explanation of the deception of the MP who submitted this amendment and other MPs who are seriously looking at this text of the law and are seriously trying to draw attention to the Government that this text should be corrected. Failure to accept this amendment only strengthens our opinion and our concern that the adoption of this law will produce negative consequences and will in fact destroy the few remaining businesses in Serbia. It seems to me that after the application of this law in Serbia, only one or two trades will work, only briefly, which produce chains and locks. When you close everything, those shops won't have anything to do. As the local economy is being abused, I will tell you through the example "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka, a firm that is neatly preparing for bankruptcy by devoting capital. The privatisation of this company has been rejected twice, and in the meantime, it is done with a cap and a handful of sale of immovable property, facilities, and so that only some workers, without any criteria, are satisfied with the criteria that local powermakers from the DS will. A group of "Gosa" workers addressed Minister Lalovic and said, "Please give us an opinion on the following issues as soon as possible: what status of workers for whose work has stopped the need, so that more than 300 workers are a technological surplus, and the company does not have the means to refer to the labour market, as a technological surplus cannot employ them, cannot lead them to work when they do not actually work, it cannot direct them to unpaid, because the law does not provide for that possibility, and they also took advantage of the legal possibility of paying leave of 45 days a year. How and in what way do you determine earnings and protect a small number of workers whose work is needed in order to maintain a minimum process of work in order to maintain the existence of enterprises and to carry out regular jobs in the human, legal, accounting, tax and employment services? Is it possible, by issuing a solution to a guaranteed border profit road coefficient, by issuing a solution to a fixed amount of profit or to some third solution; is it possible that workers who do jobs beyond their regular jobs in order to receive compensation for their work through a youth cooperative? In the hope that you will respond to us as soon as possible, thank you in advance. "This letter was sent to Minister Lalovic on 14 June 2004, and the reply to the letter from the workers "Gosa" and others whose liquidation is slowly being prepared was just contained in the draft bankruptcy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4673	Mr. Arsic, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4674	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should be accepted. Article 15(1) adds only one point (10) which states that the business of a bankruptcy manager cannot be dealt with by the elected, appointed and appointed persons in the bodies of the state administration, administrative and similar organisations. The promoter, i.e. the Government, rejected this amendment, explaining that the concept of the bill is precisely such as to promote the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Unfortunately, for the past three and a half years, we've come to the point that a bankruptcy manager should be a profession, to be an entrepreneur, to be someone's primary profession. Until then, it has brought the petoctobar revolution, and in point 10, we can freely write below to prohibit the bankruptcy directors from being Zoran Janjusevic and Nemanja Kolesar, members of the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, who and how they participated in the robbery of certain companies that were in bankruptcy. I don't see why one of these provisions, provided for in this amendment, was not accepted by the promoter, since it can't hurt. In any case, it would prevent possible abuses in another procedure, when the law itself enters into force, because it is one’s profession to be a bankruptcy manager that does not prevent him from dealing with some activity in the authorities of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4675	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, Messenger of the people Krasic, then the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4676	With this amendment, we wanted to make things clear. In the part-round business of a bankruptcy manager, which is regulated by Article 17. The draft law states that "the bankruptcy manager is obliged in particular to", and point 18) "to notify the relevant registers of the bankruptcy procedure, if provided for by the law. "When a solution is made to open a bankruptcy procedure, then the bankruptcy judge, the trade court, is obliged to notify the competent registers. I'm asking what happens if the bankruptcy manager forgets or doesn't fulfill his obligation. This is about something called automation. Although you haven't worked out the question of opening a bankruptcy procedure at the end of the season, you're a termological moustache, and you say launch, the court is in motion. No, the court is opening bankruptcy proceedings in one of the later members, but I hope you've made it right somehow. When a court opens a bankruptcy procedure, it shall have the obligation to notify all competent registers of the opening of a bankruptcy procedure and thus block the creditor to the extent sufficient to carry out the bankruptcy procedure, to determine which of those assets exist from which the creditors could settle their claim. If you leave it to the bankruptcy manager to depend on him, regardless of what you have stated in this article that it is his duty, I ask the question of what will happen if the bankruptcy manager fails to fulfil his duty, not to inform the competent registers. Yes, he does not notify the competent registers and it is enough for three days to be late with the notice, and then in that public register, there may be some publishing rights or something else in favor of some new creditors. That is why it is necessary for this automation to remain with the court, because if the court has today reached a solution to open a bankruptcy proceedings, it has today appointed a bankruptcy administrator. And when a bankruptcy manager gets into business, he needs a few days. When a trade court opens a bankruptcy procedure, it delivers that same day to the competent registers and ends the business. I am simply surprised that you did not accept this amendment in the context of the law. He doesn't disturb the structure of your law, he just defines something, in exactly the way you wanted to achieve this law. I don't think you've paid enough attention to this amendment and I have to tell you that even with some of the other duties of the bankruptcy manager in Article 17... In particular, you said that the bankruptcy manager is obliged to notify, without delay, of the bankruptcy procedure of all banks through which the creditor operates, in order to prevent the transfer of funds and other transactions of the creditor without prior approval. There's been a problem again for a few days. That creditor doesn't have funds in bank accounts. That's why we're opening a bankruptcy procedure. It's some things a court has to do, not a bankruptcy manager. The bankruptcy manager practically leaves a few days after that. I must say, you've given some of your powers to the bankruptcy director very extensively. I also told the Committee that I was simply not clear on this property insurance in a bankruptcy procedure, because it was not worked out in other provisions, so it is not known whether it will be the cost of bankruptcy proceedings or whether it will be the cost of business at all or what, you have not given him destiny. I don't think there was any interference in accepting this amendment, because it's in line with what you've declared to be the intensity of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4677	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4678	In Article 17. The bill is described in detail in the work of the bankruptcy manager. The SRS parliamentary group thinks that point 18 should be deleted, and in that sense, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment. In that point 18, it is said - the bankruptcy manager is obliged in particular to notify the relevant registers of the bankruptcy procedure, if provided for by law. We think this should be deleted, because these deals can only be carried out by a bankruptcy judge under official duty as an organ of bankruptcy proceedings at the competent court. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that the amendment is not accepted, given that such authority by the bankruptcy director as another in a number of operational decisions has been established to disenfranchise the bankruptcy judge. Although the bankruptcy judge does not personally inform the relevant registers of the bankruptcy proceedings launched, he shall, through the supervision of the work of the bankruptcy administrator and in this regard, guarantee the safety of legal traffic. This provision also further strengthens the principle of urgency in the bankruptcy process. The government may have had this intention that stands in line, but this provision has not been established anywhere. Nowhere does it stand in any way, which guarantees what I say - this provision also further strengthens the principle of urgency in the bankruptcy process. What guarantee does that give us, how are we going to do that? If it's an emergency, why can't the court do an emergency procedure? Of course, we didn't think that bankruptcy proceedings should be conducted by judges like Goran Kljajevic. We think that we should clear up with Goran Kljajevic and the other Kljajevics in Serbia, that honest and honorable judges are doing this job and that we have no fear that these jobs will be done both by emergency procedure and by the way the law really provides. Mr. Minister got angry here and said the MPs were calling him out for why he was defending this law, so he said he was defending him, or representing the government in this law, precisely because of the trade courts in this procedure. The point is, you're actually pushing the commercial courts out of bankruptcy business. I understand your fear of bad experience in the last three or four years, because, indeed, to leave the bankruptcy in Belgrade to Goran Kljajevic, a judge who as president of the crisis staff, who, along with his brother and Milet Lukovic, performed a miracle at the Trade Court, took the cases to the MUP for control, returned what was coming back to him, and today probably has no complete documentation of the cases that were under way or were completed. Mr. Minister, Goran Kljajevic is a problem that should not be solved through the law. Goran Kljajevic is the problem, indeed, of the Trade Court, of the Serbian judiciary, and I am surprised that so far it has not been cleared with Goran Kljajevic, since you all knew, you have been saying everything I am saying about Goran Kljajevic, but Goran Kljajevic is still existing, it is written with the Ministry of Justice, as counterpart Krasic said, writing songs to us, but he is still in the Trade Court. Therefore, Mr. Minister, solve problems with such judges, and let trade courts do what needs to be their jurisdiction; only then will we have the guarantee that the operations of bankruptcy and register will be conducted properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4679	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Ambassador Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, and that is a matter of principle. The SRS is basically against the establishment of an agency. Someone seems to have misunderstood that the establishment of agencies will solve all the problems in some area, and that is why today in Serbia we have a huge number of agencies and proposals for the laws on the agencies that are still waiting for us. I think it's a specific kind of bureaucratization of society and in this country where everything is closed only agencies and NGOs are opened. Therefore, funding from the budgets of such agencies or NGOs is another additional burden, and on the other hand, we get nothing in some quality, because there's always a story going on -- with the establishment of agencies we'll have some concentration of knowledge, intelligence, responsibility and everything will go better. Nothing's going to get any better, because if we're not able to solve the problem of public authorities not working, if we're not able to solve the problem of unquality work in a trade court, then we're not going to do the same by setting up an agency. What's really significant about that? It's obvious the agency is being controlled by the Ministry. If the agency is controlled by the Ministry, which is why it can't do what this agency needs to do. It's a principled question and we want to point out that in this country more and more people want to advise, preach, manage, determine, and do little work. Wherever the agency appears, we think it's another imposition on the state budget, and there's nothing quality to gain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4681	Thank you. Mr Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4682	In addition to this principled attitude, if we don't look favorably at these agencies that are founded on everything and everything, I have to draw attention to the legislator that by introducing the concept of "the licensing agency of bankruptcy managers" in this law has made one cardinal mistake. If you leave it in Article 18, paragraph 8, I must remind you that we will have a situation in which when bankruptcy is carried out on a social enterprise, practically, the agency you intend to transfer to the business of a bankruptcy manager, should submit a report, as a bankruptcy manager, to the licensing agency of bankruptcy managers. This means the position of Article 18. It's probably a reckless move, when you put it into this law. Secondly, as far as this agency's name is concerned, when it's on the agenda this second point, whether it should be called a bankruptcy agency or a law enforcement agency, maybe you should put it there, but I'm pointing to something that's a practice. A citizen who has graduated from economic college, has a proper job experience, is a citizen, has a residence here, without any major problems, can be entered in the journal of an expert in the district court. It may take something extra, but not as much as it takes for a licensed bankruptcy manager. You will all agree that these experts of economic and financial professions of experts in disputes in front of a trade court, where millions of sums are concerned, that these sums exceed several times the value of some enterprises, and no additional condition is required for the artist, except that he is listed in the journal of the arts at the district court. I'm not going into the whole procedure, through the Ministry, etc. There's something special going on here, and he's pulling something into some agency. I get the impression that you've made a big, probable and mental mistake here, because from the dictatorship of proletariat we'll make not a dictatorship of a class, but a dictatorship of a caste. This caste of bankruptcy managers will represent the interests of the trustees and if you look at what you wrote in Articles 2 and 3. The bill, you will see that it is always possible to cause bankruptcy and eliminate from business and from the economy of any private company. It's enough to challenge one legal person's debt. On purpose, I do not quote what you said in Article 2, in particular point 2 and 3. Item 2 says - the creditor is considered incompetent to pay (something that has been normal so far, I do not enter into the deadline) if he cannot meet his obligations within 45 days of the date of his commitment. So insolvency. But under point 2) you put - if he completely suspended his payments over a period of 30 days. The third condition, i.e. the third alternative situation - if it makes it likely that its already existing obligations will not be able to meet within its reach; that is so-called. threatening incompetence to pay. There opened a large space, in addition to a voluntary bankruptcy in which only a legal person goes, but there was an opportunity to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, literally, against everyone. Who's going to protect against that assault on a prospective bankruptcy debtor? Licensed bankruptcy managers, as a nominal monopoly to interpret whether the company has funds or not. Later when I answer, I will explain to the particular problem of dependent companies - when a company in the chain is a necessary condition for the existence and operation of five - six companies - the senselessness of some of the provisions that you have introduced into this law, where it is directly possible to challenge bankruptcy and destroy a legal person. That can't stand in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4683	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4684	The amendment of the SRS is something that should logically follow from this law, since the next draft law is the law on agencies, so that the bankruptcy administrator could not in this case and within this law fit. In fact, he's the only person who matches his property, and we have a bankruptcy judge, we have a trustee's assembly. Well, I guess that means, when defining this agency law, that when you get a license, all these people are laying down their assets or, in some way, because of a lack of awareness, that their assets are collateral. And no, in this law, it turns out that only this bankruptcy manager is going to answer for unconsciousness, and that's relative to what's unconscious, and what's safe, because a lot of things aren't defined to the end, not even in this law. So, even in this law, whatever it is different from the previous proposal in some way, it is not clearly defined what is a real claim, i.e. a real debt to the firm. Last night we were informed that the London Club had forgiven the debt, and then there is no logic for banks, or states, to release banks at the level of that debt. Banks, as the largest and most cases the most trusted, should be checked by these companies. It's always about the media. Our amendment is to specifically move on to some rational solutions, which is that this person, also called the bankruptcy manager, has some obligations in licensing, and not because this law is illogical and not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4685	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 21 by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee propose not to accept this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with a correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4686	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment to Article 21 requires the removal of attitude 2, and here's why. At the end of the position, it was defined that the final amount of the award and compensation for the bankruptcy manager would be determined by a higher bankruptcy, but in line with the basics and criteria prescribed by the minister responsible for business affairs. This, of course, violates one of the basic principles on which democracy rests, which is the principle of sharing power. In fact, if the executive power, which is characterized by the minister, can influence or prescribe what decisions the judge will make and to which measures judges from the bankruptcy council will move when they make a decision on the level of the prize and compensation, then it is clear that it is a interference in the affairs of the judiciary. This leads in a mild way to the unity of power, and then it leads to dictatorship, only that you will continue to call yourself a democratic government after the adoption of this law. I'm going to tell you what the government's argument of why this amendment is being rejected; to make evil bigger, the explanation says that this is prescribed by another law, and that's the Ministry Act. Thus, even the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is explicit when it comes to the principle of power-sharing, has also been violated. You see, here in Article 11, I'll go back, standing what's part of the bankruptcy council. Article 11 did not purposely state this that the amount of the fee and the prize is indemnified, but therefore, in the case of a bankruptcy judge in Article 12, it is stated that the amount of the preliminary cash compensation and the prize is determined by the bankruptcy judge. I think this was deliberately left out in Article 11, because then it would have to be written with what is recommended or prescribed by the Minister responsible for business affairs. That's why it's in Article 21 in the second position, they thought it wouldn't be noticed. If this amendment were accepted, it would be left to the bankruptcy council, or court, and in this case to the judges to do their job without the pressure of the executive authority. It would be good if you accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4687	The word has been given by the MP Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4688	In addition to all this being said about this amendment, I would only add that this entire member is very strange. You see, point 3 is said that the right to object to the preliminary level of the prize and the fees have a board of trustees and bankruptcy trusts individually, but there is no bankruptcy manager anywhere. It's all about his reward and compensation, as if he wasn't granted the right. I ask the question, what happens if the court determines the bankruptcy manager and, as you say, the licensed one and he starts working and determines that preliminary height and he says, I won't work for that money. Do you think the code, as I would say, is going to apply, is ethics, though it should be called a different code of bankruptcy. Then what's it gonna be? Such a situation is possible. What will happen when it comes to social enterprises and where it is the majority state capital, which you plan in the first phase to go to reorganisation, which means more destruction, and then there is a continuation of the process leading to bankruptcy, or there is a buyout of certain statements that will buy out and preserve the company. These are all possible variations that are hidden behind this bankruptcy law. Then what's it gonna be? Are these principles on which you are based this law, quickly, efficiently, cheaply, there are none of these principles. Even if the Minister of Business prescribes criteria, criteria on the basis of which the court will determine the amount of the prize and compensation depending on the size of the company, the number of creditors, the total dues of some companies, its perspective... See for ourselves, we're spinning in circles, from hollow to empty, and we still need to add transitional and final provisions. The law enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, and will begin to apply after the end of the six-month period. Probably 180 days from the adoption day. In the meantime, something will be licensed, something to be done, and later the formation of a bankruptcy management agency, and we have experience with the Radio-Difusing Council and other agencies, and we're waiting for that September for those agencies around housing loans and that corporation, that's all the same. So it's going round and round. What is the view of this reform law? The first to propose it, they fell for it. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4689	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. There's a word for the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4690	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment submitted by counterpart Petar Jojic refers to Article 62, which says, "If a creditor has acquired an inheritance after the bankruptcy procedure, the successor statement is given by a bankruptcy manager." The SRS parliamentary group thinks that this member must be deleted because it is simply incredible and unacceptable that a successor statement in anyone's name may be given by a bankruptcy administrator. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation saying: "As the appointment of a bankruptcy manager gives this person the property of a creditor's agent in all his legal actions, the day of the bankruptcy proceedings, the creditor takes care of the property of a creditor made up of all property rights and obligations of a creditor, including personal and property rights. How a creditor may be an entrepreneur, or a natural person, that creditor, as a creditor of a creditor, may make an inheritance statement after the bankruptcy procedure has been initiated." The government's reasoning is exactly what is contained in Article 62 of this Law and what the SRS parliamentary group is highly well-intentioned to propose to delete from this law, as this member will produce a series of abuses, and the issue of the constitutionality of this member is a special topic. We absolutely think you can't keep this. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you seriously consider this amendment, given the fact that the SRS parliamentary group has invested about 10 - 12 amendments, with the intention of regulating this law, to be applicable in practice, and not to the detriment of workers or trustees or bankruptcy managers. You obviously thought that the government had done the job perfectly and that there was no reason to accept any amendment. I think you should think about it. Do not shake hands just by the fact that the amendment comes from the SRS parliamentary group. We are extremely well-intentioned in submitting these amendments. Rest assured, we are professional enough, trained enough to propose seriously, and we expect you, as a serious minister, to seriously consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4691	Mr Krasic answered for the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4692	It's very simple and simple -- a leaver can only be a physical person, who died. The desert procedure opens at the moment of death. The heir may be a physical person; some rights on the property of the leaver may also have legal persons, legislation, etc., but not to go into it. You had a problem with how to solve an entrepreneur. An entrepreneur is, by definition, a natural person who carries out a business activity, who is registered in the relevant register of persons who perform a certain activity on their own. There used to be entrepreneurs with a legal personality and no legal personality. In the bankruptcy process, the property of a legal person is thrown, and the legal person is hardly a successor. He can't be an heir. The lack of your response is also reflected in the fact that you treat the bankruptcy manager as the legal representative of the creditor. Whether it's a physical or legal person, he can't be a legal representative. If it's a physical person, underage, then the legal representative is a parent. If it's a legal person, the legal representative is the director of that firm. But you've defined the bankruptcy manager as a licensed person qualified to protect the interests of the trustees. So you have a conflict between a creditor and a trustee in the face of a bankruptcy manager. You had a problem solving the bankruptcy of the so-called. limited liability companies. That problem cannot be solved by this law. This problem is solved by the law on companies, or the Company Act, as we call it. How? Well, by increasing the underlying capital, the founding capital of the company, probably by some deposit, because companies with limited liability under the law only correspond to the amount of capital invested. When all of this is put into one mix, civil law, a strict observed inheritance right, an economic right, then you see that this member is so pointless that it is not only his place in this law, but in legal traffic with us at all. So, a limited-response society problem has to be solved by another law. You can't handle it with this law, especially this way. You say here, "If a creditor has acquired an inheritance after the bankruptcy process, the successor's statement is given by a bankruptcy manager." So, which judge of the municipal court is going to accept the heiress statement of the bankruptcy director? So don't, people, make us laugh at what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4693	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Stevović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4694	I would just like to refer to the presentation of distinguished SRS MPs Verice Radeta and Zoran Krasic and the 62nd member as an interpreter -- what kind of statement a bankruptcy manager might make. The creditor shall have the right not to accept the inheritance which is opened to the creditor; he may accept and disown for someone's benefit; and finally, the third option is to accept. If the promoter wanted this member to be included in the bill at the same time, he had to limit it to two cases. The first case is that he must accept inheritance, and the second is that he can accept and give up the benefit of one of the creditors. In that case, that third vision would have to fall off. For these reasons, I am absolutely in favour of erasing this article because it will create difficult problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4695	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4696	Article 74 discusses the right to vote in the case of a two-party contract and paragraph 1 says: "If the creditor and his co-dealer have not fully or partially executed the two-party contract they have concluded, the creditor may, instead of a creditor, fulfil the contract and seek fulfillment by the other party". By amendment to this article, I suggested that the words "or partially" be deleted. So, to stay – if the creditor and his co-dealer failed to fully implement the two-sided contract they concluded, the creditor may, instead of the creditor, fulfil the contract and seek fulfillment from the other party. The proposed solution set out in the draft law puts individual creditors in a position to extend. Of course, we don't mind, and we know that bankruptcy proceedings are being conducted, among other things, in order to settle trusts, and that's fine, but you can't get into a situation where a bankruptcy trustee stretches. The government rejected this amendment with one brief explanation – the amendment is not accepted taking into account that the fulfillment of the contract is necessary for the regular business of the company after the bankruptcy procedure is launched. I really don't understand what the government is trying to say here, except for what the amendment I submitted to this article on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. We just want what the government said in an explanation, but we're not going to do what the government said in the bill. The legal norm must be clear and must not create the possibility of abuse. If something is said to be partially done, it opens up the possibility of abuse. What does "partially" mean? How much in part? Imagine if Janjusevic or Kolesar, a former member of the Democratic Party, appears as bankruptcy managers, in which situation individual creditors will then find themselves. What can happen under this law? I'll introduce you to the letter that our MP group received from Smederjevska Palanka from the workers of the "Gosa" furniture factory. This is about a conflict between officials of the Democratic Party, who form the power in Smederevo and factory director Radomer Cokic, who is a member of the Serbian Renewal Movement. Because of the conflict between the Democratic Party and the Serbian Movement, the workers of the factory suffer, do not allow them to privatise, verify their factory and prepare them for the application of your bankruptcy law. The request of these workers is addressed to the president of the municipality – we ask you to take immediate measures to protect the workers of the "Gosa" furniture factory, for the reason that the management of the factory headed by Cokić Radomir and the illegal board of directors of two members is conducting terror over workers and deprives them of all rights under the Labour Act. On April 1, 2004, workers reported to the factory for further information by management. Cokic's leadership didn't show up. Workers have been sent home for six months without any legal rights, without paper on paid leave that can only last 45 days a year under the law. Since Cokic Radomir acts as if it were his property with nothing to say to the workers under the law, we ask local self-government and Holding "Gossu" to help us through the relevant institutions take all measures and shifts of Cokic Radomir, which led to the huge loss of the furniture factory. The workers left the factory circle, went home, dissatisfied with their existence. We ask the President of the Assembly of the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka to meet all institutions, means of information, etc. Of course, the president of the municipality, in order to prove himself to be a great Democrats and worker protector, corresponds to workers with a letter that "rounded to corners". I can see I don't have time to read it, but I'll read it when I talk about the next amendment. The point is that due to the conflict between the Democratic Party and the Serbian Movement, the workers of the "Gosa" furniture plant in Smederjevska Palanca are awaiting the application of this law with a chill, because they know that they will be out of work, without property, and that those trustees that the president of the municipality, through his manager, will be appointed, since you did not accept that amendment that we gave to that member... And it is already known in the Smederjevska Palanca who will lose their jobs, which the creditors will be calmed down, but unfortunately, you take our amendments unrelentingly. That's your problem. We are sure that our amendments are ultimately intended to help the economy, and your law and non-acceptation of our amendments is aimed at destroying and this little economy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4697	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4698	If this bill had been done by chance at the Department of Justice, I'm absolutely certain that a member like this could not pass, and here's why, very simply. The words "or part" in attitude one mean absolutely nothing. Read attitude 1. So you will see that the words "or partially" have already been carried out in words that precede, which is - if they have not fully implemented. So it's about mutual contracts, where both sides appear as creditors and debtors. So that's one mutual trust-debt mutual relationship. I need your attention to focus on Article 73 and the final position of this Article 74. You see, in these two members there is a whole formula of how licensed bankruptcy managers can make a gift-mar right after opening a bankruptcy procedure. The sole right of a bankruptcy manager is whether he will recognise that mutually burdensome contract. If he admits it, then it goes towards fulfillment, and if it goes towards fulfillment and in the event of withdrawal from that contract, it all represents a cost and goes into the first payment order. I remind you of what you stated in Article 73(1) – from the date on which the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated, it cannot be against the debtor, or over his assets, to determine and implement an emergency execution. Thus, the full law allows an unrealised contract, concluded two days before the bankruptcy proceedings were opened, to be given priority over the claim that exists under an earlier contractual relationship concluded one year before the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated. This story that you didn't accept erasing the word "or partially", because this "or partly" in attitude 1. doesn't mean anything. Read it yourself, so you can logically conclude. He says, "If the creditor and his co-dealer are not in whole until the bankruptcy process has been initiated -- which means they have neither begun or started in part; then he says, "or partially executed..." This "or partly" is quite unnecessary and I'm surprised that you didn't accept to remove this wrong game of words, concepts. If something isn't in whole, it's meant to be partially done, at least so far it's right. However, when a bad translation is translated further into that Vlahovic, and I hope Vlahovic couldn't write something like this, though, who knows, we're probably late for Europe for a year, he's late for this law... You see, look at the last position in this article where there's a first payment order, some claim still undefined, two days before the bankruptcy proceedings are opened; so you're really on your way to make a special caste out of licensed bankruptcy managers, which will cheer, dress, where private equity owners will be quite afraid of who's going to be a bankruptcy manager, to be in good relations with these bankruptcy managers, because monopolies, big giants can always challenge bankruptcy over any private enterprise. At the beginning of this debate on amendments, I showed you six ways to collect claims. The last way to collect claims is when no one has trust in bankruptcy managers or in court, but takes justice. Unfortunately, this has proved to be the most effective way to collect claims.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4699	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4700	I promised to read this letter from the President of Smederevska Palanka Municipality, and it is also about this member, or the whole law. Mr. Aligrudic, I promised it to the workers of this company, and I have to do it. "On 2 April 2004, I was informed as president of the SO by the group of workers of the "Gosa" furniture plant of terror and self-will carried out over them by the management of the factory, and headed by the director of the factory Radoslav Cokic, otherwise the SO committee. It is generally known for its "contrast" behavior, so it is simply unusual for its employees to take repressive measures. Since Mr. Radoslav Cokic advocates legitimate work, how is it that the factory is managed by the board of directors who has been elected in a legitimate way that does not respect legal norms when it comes to the rights of employees, because we also know that he is sending workers on paid leave, and there is no stand-off in the law, for a period of more than six months, and we know that the law provides for a maximum of 45 days a year on the name of paid leave, so as to distance them from creating problems for him. He, as director, does not respond first to his obligations, not coming to work and boycotting meetings, and is sought by workers to find solutions to the crisis that the factory is now in. From this, it can be concluded that he is irresponsible and uninterested in the fate of the factory, and that he is very zealous at the meetings of SO, passionate about criticizing other executives. Since the furniture factory is not yet privatised and it is not known who will be the majority owner, the behaviour of the director, Mr Cokic, the SO boardman, is extremely inadmissible because he is not the majority owner and has no right to deny employees first of all existence." So, it's not all what the employees said about this director, but it's disputed that privatisation is not allowed, and that the president of the municipality and the director are involved, and they blame each other in front of the workers until they find a way to privatise the factory, probably, waiting for this bankruptcy bill. I submitted an amendment to Article 79 on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, to the position of the 3rd member. Article 3 says, "A lease agreement by a creditor may be cancelled independently of the legal and contractual deadlines, with a 30-day notice." It's a proposed solution that, according to us from the SRS, cannot possibly survive. I suggested that these words be deleted "independent of legal and agreed deadlines". I also suggested that it be deleted: "Right to the compensation for the cancellation of the leaser's lease is realised in an amount that cannot be higher than the amount of a half-yearly lease." The government says the amendment cannot be accepted, since the formulation "independence of legal and contractual deadlines" only reflects the general rules of the bankruptcy procedure under which the bankruptcy administrator decides to maintain or terminate bilateral contracts. We in the SRS think the lease is interrupted by a judicial authority act and there is no room for damages based on lost profits in this case, as the government has suggested. In a difficult situation an economic operator has fallen into, and that we do not need legal conditions to create even deeper pushing someone who is fighting for life, because, you know, every bankruptcy involves hundreds or thousands of employees and certainly that the law should regulate that matter, but should not regulate it at the expense of employees. Also, we believe that the proposed solution violates the good business practices and the principle of equivalence that is present in the trade court at all, not only in bankruptcy business, but in business at all, or in the work of the trade court. There are many examples, unfortunately, in practice of what happens when a lease is regulated in this way, it was, although it was not in this way all regulated. We have an example of the workers of the Zemun Centre who were employed at the Drina restaurant, all got fired, lost their jobs, and this "Drina" still works as a catering facility, by giving the bankruptcy manager to his close relative. Such examples are many in Serbia. We really expected the government to propose a law that would prevent abuses, which would protect this little economy that was left, but apparently, the government supports chains and locks at social factories in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4701	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4702	In the process of property transformation, as it is called modernly, or privatisations were sold by some companies that had employees and had the right to lease on the business space in the city and of course, they acquired the right to rent to continue using, however, they were obliged not to change their performance, but the hairdressers became cafes. It's a normal relationship with Article 79. It's a bill of law. You see, here, a creditor appears as a borrower and as a tenant and by nature of things as a creditor can appear because you allow him in paragraph 3 because you recognise his right to compensation for damages and something that happened after the bankruptcy procedure was opened. You know, after the bankruptcy proceedings; and as a rule, the bankruptcy procedure discusses what is happening and it is a matter of being cut off by the opening of a bankruptcy procedure, and here at the lease and in the compensation of the damage is obviously something that happens after the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. Yeah, that comes up later as a big problem. To figure out what this problem is going to be, I'm going to refer to Article 50. Proposal for a law - providing services of general interest (electricity, water, telephone, etc.). In this third statement, you wrote that on the request of an organisation providing these services, a creditor may oblige the creditor to deposit the deposit as a guarantee that those costs will be paid. There's only one thing you've forgotten - that a bankruptcy debtor is insolvent. Where to make the deposit, when his account was shut down? A bankruptcy procedure has been opened against him because there is no money in the account and he cannot serve his obligations. If you'd put electricity and rent into the same basket... And believe me, with some creditors who are tenants in some business space, if the lease is cancelled, you immediately "killed" them, it is unnecessary to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. He's done. This is particularly evident when it comes to bankruptcy of social enterprises. You have these companies that use bars, which are not yet privatized, show increasing insolvency every day, a bankruptcy process will be opened. As soon as the lease contracts are cancelled, whether it's a government loanor or someone else's, they're dead. You're free of bankruptcy. So how do you plan to reorganize and bring it all down to the level of thinking of an average licensed bankruptcy manager? It'll be a big problem for the so-called. private and for so-called social enterprises. It's not nice when a bad translation is mistranslated.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4703	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4704	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Socialist Party has tabled an amendment to Article 92, where Article 1 is amended and reads: "After the deadline for the application is up, the court shall, within five days, submit all requests to the bankruptcy administrator. "In heading 2, "40" is replaced by "30". I'll also explain later what caused us to endure this amendment; one of the very bad experiences we had in applying the old bankruptcy law, and it refers to how it was done in Smederjev's Sartide. As it is known, the law, or legislation that regulates this area, has been broken or, God forbid, that, as Mr. Vlahovic said, his ministry is the creator of this law, so we fear that it is not tried in this way to provide the possibility to apply some other bankruptcy procedures in some other companies the method and procedure applied to "Sartid". For this reason, Articles 56 and 90 provide that creditors shall submit applications in writing to the bankruptcy court no later than 60 days after the date of the bankruptcy proceedings. Article 22(1) provides for the obligation of a bankruptcy court to provide, at the same time, all the applications received to the creditor to the creditor to the creditor. It has been omitted to prescribe a period within which a bankruptcy court is required to carry out this obligation. The amendment proposes that, following the expiry of the prescribed deadline for the application by the creditors, the bankruptcy court is obliged to submit any received applications to the creditor to the creditor for a further period of five days. We also consider that the bankruptcy manager has been left with an unnecessary period of time to determine the validity of the claim, i.e. to make up a list of recognised and contested claims, and we propose a reduction of this deadline to 30 days. For these reasons, we ask that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4705	Mr. Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, since I've been mentioned, I've been looking for a replica. I think that whoever wants to be an MP in the National Assembly must know that there is a clear division between the executive, legislative and judicial authorities and that when it comes to the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, on the one hand, the executive and on the other hand, the judicial authorities and that, regardless of what is attractive to voters or citizens, it should, however, respect the independence of these two authorities from one another. A case of bankruptcy of Sartida is mentioned here, and I would just like to remind the previous speaker and his MP group that in the 1990s, at a time when the parliamentary group of the previous speaker had full authority in co-operation with some other political parties, which I will not mention, Sartid was all but a metallurgical combination, that in Sartid, the rate of capacity utilisation in Sartid was less than 10%, that the annual debt that Sartid made to public enterprises amounted to about 600 million dinars; that, in a long time period of five years, the accumulated obligation for unpaid contributions to pension and health insurance. So, the workers had no work experience, and the salaries were not paid. It is therefore not good to mention a company that has been completely destroyed thanks to the wrong economic policy run by previous authorities in the 1990s. I would also ask Mr. Chairman and all MPs for this speaker to concentrate on the specific topic of the agenda, namely the bankruptcy law, which is precisely through their implementation and implementation, to ensure the restructuring of a large part of the Serbian economy in the difficult strategic, operational crisis, precisely thanks to the devastating economic policy that has taken place in these areas in the 1990s. (Brance Stojanović, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4707	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4708	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 97. Rules of Procedure, misread discussion. Here I tried to give an example and the way the bankruptcy was conducted. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. [[President: You want a replica on replica.]] This is where we heard from the previous minister that Sartid had been doing business for the past 10 years. He mentioned the way the company survived at the time of the sanctions and how the workers received the salary. We can talk about it best and most qualifiedly, because I think it was extremely important for this city, and also for the whole Republic. And how much interference there is between one, the other and the third authorities, as Mr. Vlahovic says, is best seen in the case of the previous period, not to mention the names of people who were bankrupt managers, the way they were elected. Mr. Vlahovicu, you know best how it was done in Sartid, not to mention the names - who was the first bankruptcy manager, whose godfather is he, etc. Here I tried to make a modest contribution on behalf of the SPS, so that with the adoption of a new law, we would not fall into a trap if someone else's godfather were to conduct bankruptcy proceedings in Serbian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4709	Mr. Vlahovic wants a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4710	Replica, since I was mentioned in the presentation of the previous MP. I don't have any godfathers in any bankruptcy proceedings, anywhere in this country. The essence of my replica was the division of the executive and judicial authority. The Democratic Party, which was in the government in the previous period until March of this year, has just found that there is a systemic problem in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings in this country, that bankruptcys are long, that they last for an average of 7.2 years, that there is no division of responsibility between bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges, that no one is aware of who is making the operational and who is the judge, that the procedure itself is not sufficiently turned towards those who are bankrupt most needed to be interested, and that is the Committee of Trustees. That is why we have prepared a law that systematically improves the way this process works, very important not only for creditors who are directly interested in a particular case, but a very important process globally, to restructure the over-indebted part of the Serbian economy. It seems to me that we have shown by our actions, and by the very fact that the law that we are talking about today, as well as the one that we are going to talk about at the next agenda, is precisely the product of the work of the previous Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. Once again, I welcome the decision of this government of the Republic of Serbia and the new Ministry of Business and Privatisation to refer this legal text to the Serbian Parliament. There are no individual corrections and individual accelerations of the process, i.e. bankruptcy procedures. If the problem exists, it can only be systemically solved, which is the adoption of a new law, the formation of new institutions that are responsible for carrying out this process. That was the essence of my answer. It is not good to use a pay phone to make a parallel out of political motives in any way or to draw executives into something that is not their domain of responsibility. That was the essence of my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4711	Thank you. Here you go, Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4712	Article 99, very short. The MP is obliged to speak the truth behind the pay phone. It's not true that the workers of Sartida did not receive salaries. Sartid was created as a metallurgical combination, as a product of a political decision at a delicate moment characterised in Serbia as liberalism, with the assessment that difficult days can come and that such a combination is necessary for this country. He, among other things, raised half of Smederev. Today we can talk about it in one way or another, to burn ourselves with economic or other parameters, that factory, that combination was necessary to Serbia, as is necessary today. If it wasn't for him, he should have made it up. By applying the principle of analogy to this, if we could take what Mr. Vlahovic was saying as a principle, all European countries could put the railways out because they are inert. A country that is serious, which keeps to itself, has the obligation to create resources that can at some point be valuable, as in the past few decades of Glazizar in Smederev. All of this other thing is a special analysis, and if someone is responsible for it, we should call it the real name and those people who did it, but that time that this combination was created was one delicate time when it was valued, with full right, today we know that difficult days can come for Serbia, as they came at one point. So, the combination of Smederevo, in one way that we today can characterize, at one point Serbia gave that power that no factory could give, when we were under a glass bell, hermetically closed, for reasons that are generally known. So, to raise the monument of the Ironsari, as it is, and we will not be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4713	That was Ambassador Rajko Baralic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Milomir Minić submitted to Article 97 of the amendment, but he also pulled it down the written path. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 102. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103, the amendment was submitted and withdrawn by MP Zarko Obradovic. He submitted to the members of the 110th and 111th amendments and withdrew MP Milomir Minic. Member of the 116th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130, the amendment was submitted and withdrawn by Zarko Obradovic, a national MP. Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposal's representative, Minister Zoran Stojkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only answer a few objections to this law at the beginning. There was an observation here that there could be no other control except judicial control. I have to draw attention to the fact that there are several controls outside the courthouse, such as administrative oversight, etc., so it's not true that no one else can do it without judicial control. As far as the proposal is concerned that bankruptcy managers are enrolled in the Registrar's Arts, it cannot be accepted by me, because the status of a court expert is completely different from the status of a bankruptcy manager and the court has a completely different property in a different procedure than the business of a bankruptcy manager who is supposed to run the technical bankruptcy business. The remark that bankruptcy managers, except for college graduates, don't have to know the job they're supposed to be doing, don't stand. This obligation to pass an expert examination has therefore been introduced. By passing an expert examination, it is confirmed that this man can carry out the work professionally. The name of Mr. Kljajevic has been mentioned several times. I'm inclined to accept some things from what's been said, but I'd pray that it doesn't require certain provisions to be introduced into the law. Mr. Kljajevic has his own procedure before the Great personal council, and some criminal proceedings are being conducted. But that would not be why new provisions are now being introduced into the law in order to allegedly protect themselves from the appearance of Kljajevic and similar to him. I don't think that can stand. The question of responsibility that is highlighted here and alluding that only a bankruptcy manager can answer does not stand. The state can always answer. Therefore, if there is concern about the responsibility of the court and the judge, it is envisaged; it even has a responsibility of judges to the state when it can be regressed to them. Therefore, nothing is disputed in that part either. What's causing my dilemma is the question of an inheritance statement. The fact is that a creditor would not be able to appear and make some valid statements in legal traffic. Perhaps this could be accepted that it should stand that a statement of acceptance of property can be made by a bankruptcy manager. I'm under the impression that my colleagues were thinking a step further, what if there was a possibility of abuse. It might be more specific than that, but I think this formulation can stand like this, too, making sure that these abuses don't occur. In the end, I would like to say that by adopting this law, we are finally getting that law that needs businesses in this area, and also the court that could carry out the proper procedures. As I said, with a valid litigation procedure that gives acceleration and a valid enforcement procedure, the matter in this area is complete, which enables in a certain way the protection of the economy, valid privatisation and valid protection of creditors and their investment in our economy. For these reasons, I hope this law will be passed and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-05-0.u4715	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since it's close to 1800 hours, I think we'd better continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours and start the second agenda. Thank you.
