ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I invite you to pay our respects to the victims of Albanian terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija for a minute of silence. "Glory to them!" I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 178 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Nikolic and Slobodan Lalovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to elect three MPs from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 16 and 17 March 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, as referred to in Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 16 and 17 March 2004. For 133, against one, it did not vote seven out of 141 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 16 and 17 March 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 127, it did not vote 12 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The election of three MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. We move to work according to the established agenda of the session. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I seek the word of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1284	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, under Rule 221. "The MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations." I don't know if you know that in Kosovo and Metohija, a genocide of the remaining Serb living in the territories south of Kosovo Mitrovica was committed? Do you know that many congregations in the world have discussed this problem? Do you know that you are the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? And I still don't know if that's what you're interested in and whether you should have, Mr. President, started this session without us discussing Kosovo and Metohija at all. And what hypocrisy it is, honoring the victims of terror, and not speaking a word after that of this terror. And how many times are we gonna get up here after those calls you made? And what is it currently about Kosovo and Metohija and what are you negotiating in Brussels? What proposals on cantonisation are you making, who has authorized you, who is deciding what will happen to Serbia in the most recent future, especially Kosovo and Metohija, who are the authorized people, who have empowered them, who is behind them? We will not participate in the work of this session of the National Assembly. We are interested in this as part of regular activities, and Serbia is not in regular condition. It is in Belgrade in regular condition, but Serbia is not in regular condition. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not discussing Kosovo and Metohija. We're adopting the minutes from the previous sessions. We're acting crazy, like nothing ever happened. Well, we're not gonna play crazy, and some of us here won't need to pretend they're crazy if you really accept going on the agenda, which is predetermined as it is. Just one night ago, you got a draft budget bill, you read it, you found out what was wrong, what was the deficit and what was going to finance it from. Thank you very much. We will have to lead this congregation so that it can solve what is most important. I ask the Serbian Radical Party MPs to leave the room. (SRS emissaries left the O.R. at 12.40 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1285	Mr. Nikolic, you asked for an answer. You can have it. (Tomislav Nikolic: I am not of you. ) Like all MPs, you asked for a reply from the Rules of Procedure from the President of the National Assembly and I am obliged to meet all MPs that, as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by letter dated 19 March 2004, by the President of the Security Committee, Mr Milorad Mircic, I was asked to initiate an emergency session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. I immediately called on all representatives of the parliamentary groups to agree on this, because of course I share the opinion that this session must be convened urgently and that it must show the ability of the National Assembly to work. The session was called by representatives of five parliamentary groups -- DSS, DS, G17 plus, SPO and SPS. We waited for another parliamentary group to respond; she did not respond. We agreed, and we notified the public and all the committees, so this country could react seriously. The assembly, as a representative body of the state, must draw serious conclusions on the basis of real information and is therefore asked by the Committee on Security, the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which includes representatives of all parliamentary groups and who have been in constant session since the start of organised violence in Kosovo, to, together with the relevant ministries, prepare reports, so that this assembly is not used for marketing in another person's accident, but that it can, on the basis of actual and accurate data, bring, on the basis of these reports, a resolution that will oblige the competent authorities in Serbia, give a clear message to the citizens of Serbia and commit to the international community to help our lives. It is agreed that as soon as these reports arrive, and I remind you that thanks to the appointment of the president of this assembly at the head of these committees, representatives of the opposition are standing by, immediately interrupts a regular session and an extraordinary session on Kosovo begins. We're waiting for those reports. At the same time, in order for the public to know, we have scheduled two sessions under the previous agreement: one concerning the full constitution of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, because its work is also necessary for everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija; the second session of the National Assembly, which we will join immediately after the end of this, is dedicated to the budget. Not only pensioners, but farmers and the Serbia-Montenegro Army cannot exist unless the budget is adopted by March 31st. Anyone who tries to ignore the fact that without a budget, this country is stopping and is therefore trying to postpone budgeting, of course, is working against this country. I have reminded myself several times and thanks to all the MPs who have accepted this: you can be an opposition to the government, you must not be an opposition to the state. I ask once again all the responsible MPs to follow this rule and now, when our country is in crisis, to commit ourselves to what we can really do to solve this crisis. That is the answer to Mr Nikolic, and I assume that he, like all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, knows him well. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF Three MEMBERS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received a list of candidates for the selection of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, made up of the Republic Election Commission, on the basis of a proposal from the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the second session of the First Regular Session, held on 16 March 2004, concluded that it had suspended the mandate, before the election of time, for MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly Ljiljana Colic, Dragan Jocic and Aleksandr Popovic, elected on the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, on the day of their resignation and thus obtained the conditions for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under Article 20. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly has passed the election of new MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly on a proposal from the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Before we approach the vote, let me remind you that it is in article 15. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly found that candidates from the list were elected for MPs, provided that the list of candidates received most of the votes of MPs at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs, and that MPs voted publicly on the list, using an electronic voting system. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, representing most of the 250 MPs and that therefore there is a quorum for work and decision-making. We approach the vote: I am voting on a list of candidates to elect Serbia-Montenegro's parliamentarians. For 125, a abstentioned one, two of the 128 MPs did not vote. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the list of candidates received most of the votes of the total national MPs, and that the National Assembly thus decided that candidates from the list Nikola Lazic, Milorad Perovic and Miroslav Aleksic were elected for MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Allow me to congratulate the MPs on your choice and on your behalf. After electing the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, I conclude the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. (session ended at 12.45 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1286	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BITE FOURTH SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION OF THE 23rd March 2004 (The session began at 12.45 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Milan Nikolic and Slobodan Lalovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible for 2004 and the necessary accompanying laws in the area of finance. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the Law on Tax on the Fund of Profits, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, of a total of 127 present Members of the People's Parliament. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, a draft law on the 2004 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals on granting consent to financial plans for 2004: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance and the National Employment Service, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade be put on the agenda in 2004 in profit and sales taxes, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 19 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 126, of 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the tax on the fund, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public income and public expenditure, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on the 2004 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals on granting consent to financial plans for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (d) the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, and (g) the National Employment Service, 5. Proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Tax on the Fund of Profit, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to financial plans for 2004: the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Individuals, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance and the National Employment Services, the Proposal for the Law on the volume of Funds and the participation of Municipalities, the City of Belgrade in the Tax and the Tax on Transport in 2004 (points: 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5th Agenda). Does MP Branislav Ristivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. Work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: THE PROPOSALS OF THE INVESTMENT ON FOND REFERENCE, PUBLIC REVENTION AND EXPLOSIVES, LOCAL Self-Government, BUDGET AND COUNTER AND CITY IN CURTAINS AND TRANSPORT (Common Main Search) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Vlahović. The presidency has been informed that the authorised representative for this agenda item will be Mr Vlahovic, from the DS list. I ask Mr. Vlahovic to use his card to confirm his presence in the O.R. before he takes his word. (Alexander Vlahovic registers. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I propose to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time for discussion, will be doubled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1289	A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Branislav Ristivojevic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that according to Article 90, this right has just been used by Mr Vlahovic. We can vote on the total time for the debate. A representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group suggested that the time of the debate in the joint principled search be 10 hours, if I understand correctly. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 26, against 118, with four abstentions, two of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party - one hour 38 minutes, 24 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - one hour, three minutes, 35 seconds; the Democratic Party - 44 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs - five minutes each, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a joint search. Do the representatives of the promoter, Master Mladjan Dinkic, Finance Minister and Dr Zoran Lončar, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government want a word? Please, Mr Dinkic, the finance minister in the Serbian government, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1290	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extraordinary pleasure and honor to have the opportunity today to present five legislative projects of the Serbian Government, of which, of course, the most important draft budget bill for 2004. As you know, the budget is currently on temporary funding, given that the 2004 budget was not adopted in the ordinary procedure and the financial period for the temporary financing expires on 31 March, so a new budget should be adopted by that date. There is no special need to highlight the importance of the budget for the functioning of all state services. The fact is that the finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia have made huge efforts to prepare this budget in a relatively short time. I also apologize to the MPs for asking for an emergency procedure, but for the temporary funding it was necessary. Anyway, we tried to give as wide a budget explanation as possible. Where it wasn't done, we'll do it during this discussion and my opening presentation. I would now move on to the explanation of these five legal projects, given that there is a debate that is united. First, the philosophy of this government will be to dissipate from labour costs, or production costs. Our production is uncompetitive, at this time of good work and because labour costs are very high, and therefore our product prices are uncompetitive on both domestic and foreign markets. Therefore, the first item of the agenda is the law that we propose to suspend the law on the tax on the fund. It is a tax of 3.5% which applies to gross wages and total burdens labour costs of around 5%, since it is applied when all taxes and contributions are already denied and net wages are accounted for. We've proposed that taxes be abolished on the fund with effect from 1 July of this year. Given that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are preparing a new package of tax laws, in particular the amendment of the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens, where we will arrange the basis for tax and profit collection, we plan to bring this tax reform into effect on July 1st, which will significantly reduce labour costs. The first in a series of these laws is just to cut taxes on a profit fund. The effect on the economy -- total discharge -- is eight billion dinars. Given that this tax is in general the income of local self-government, the government has proposed three more accompanying laws to compensate for the loss of income to local self-government created by abolishing the income fund tax. The second bill of law that we have submitted changes to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. So far, local self-government has participated in a 5% salary tax. So that net salary tax is 14%, and the participation of local self-government in it was 5%. The government is now proposing to increase this participation from 5% to 30%, in order to replace local self-government with loss of income due to tax cuts on the fund. However, given that in different local self-governments, the effect of abolishing the pay fund tax, as well as the increase of participation in salary tax from 5% to 30%, is not the same, i.e. in some municipalities this compensation is more than necessary and in some, it is also proposed a new law on the volume of funds and participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004. Namely, those local self-governments, which, based on the suspension of the income tax on the one hand, but on the other hand, increasing their participation in the salary tax from 5% to 30%, generate higher incomes than those they would have had if there had remained a income tax on the fund, will be reduced to the share of the sales tax; those who achieve less will be increased participation in the sales tax, so that the revenues of local self-government remain unchanged due to this measure. I note once again that all these laws and these changes have come into force since 1 July 2004. Also, the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses sets out some of the revenues that were not specified by the previous law, as customs and other import duties became revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and last year they belonged to the federal budget. Since there is no longer a federal budget, then the addition of Article 9. The law on public revenues and public expenditure, where customs and other import duties are specified as revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then, in Article 3 of this Act, a type of tax is cited as a residence tax, as this was not precisely defined by the previous law. Finally, Article 4 of this Act complements, citing as a local public income land planning compensation, which is to comply with the Law on Local Self-Government. This does not change the membership of this revenue, it remains in the general budget of the municipality, or city, which is governed by Article 25. Public revenue and public expenditure laws. Now let me move on to the explanation of the most important of all these laws that we have proposed here today. It is a draft law on the 2004 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of pension, social and health insurance funds. First of all, I would like to show the basics of the new government's economic policy based on which this budget was designed. Last year we had a slowdown in economic development, and this significant slowdown, with a 3% drop in industrial production and a 7% drop in agricultural production. Due to some growth in the service sector, the social gross product last year increased, according to some estimates, between one and two and a half percent. Inflation was shot down to 7.8% last year, measured in December 2003, compared to December 2002. This is one of the most significant results achieved last year; therefore, macroeconomic stabilisation has been achieved. The problem with economic policy last year was that we had macroeconomic stability, but there was no economic growth. In fact, industrial and agricultural production has fallen significantly and the new government has decided to change economic policy to reverse these negative trends. According to the government of Serbia's economic policy projection, this year the social gross product is growing between 4% and 5%, with the Ministry of Finance's estimate that it will be 4.3%, but the range will be between 4% and 5% this year. As for inflation, given that in the first two months, while the previous government had responsibilities, inflation was 1.4%, and this is already 8.5% on year-on-year, we have revised the projection of inflation of the previous government; it is now projected between eight and nine and a half percent on year-on-year, but in any case it will remain one-digit. In the structure of GDP growth, we predict the recovery of industry. Last year, I already said, industrial production dropped 3%. We're planning a mild recovery of 2% this year. In agriculture, we expect at least 8% growth, 5% in construction, 4% traffic, 4% trade and 4% in other activities. On average, the social gross product, according to our estimate, should grow between 4% and 5%, and 4.3%, if we go at these rates that I have now stated. This year's budget plans for total revenues are projected at 329.3 billion dinars, while total expenditures are 334.6 billion, so the budget deficit is 45.3 billion dinars. Compared to the deficit in the previous year, this is a realistic reduction of 0.4% of the social gross product. The deficit that was made last year amounted to 43.6 billion dinars, which accounted for 4% of the social gross product. The deficit of 45.3 billion dinars this year accounts for 3.6% of the social product; therefore, it is a reduction of the deficit by 0.4% of the social product. As far as income is concerned, the planned revenues of 329 billion dinars have the following structure: the income tax of 53.5 billion, the profit tax of 6.6 billion, the sales tax of 124.4 billion dinars, excise taxes of 67 billion, customs duties of 33 billion, other tax revenues of 13 billion and non-tax revenues of 31 billion. I have to say that 68 billion dinar revenue was planned in the first quarter, and it will be made with over 70 billion dinars, which means that this projection, given that the first quarter is usually the weakest in collecting tax revenues, is conservative and completely real. As for the source for covering the deficit, it is, above all, a net domestic funding: the amount is 15.7 billion. I have to say what this item means. These are deposits of the Republic of Serbia's vault to the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. privatisation revenues made in the previous year and not spent. Last year's privatisation revenue amounted to around 600m euros; however, the government inherited only 200m euros, 40m euros in the Restitution Fund and cannot be used to cover the budget deficit, so it is available to cover the budget deficit of 160m euros or 11.7 billion dinars. I have to say that most of these expenditures were made by the last quarter of the previous year, when there was a sudden expansion of public spending. Almost all of this money, these 400m euros, was spent in November, last year, ahead of the elections. It has mostly gone public spending, increasing the government's obligations towards public spending users. The start we're starting with has been somewhat determined by this excessive spending of the previous government, so the possibilities for reducing public spending in this year's new government have indeed been limited. On the other hand, other than these 11.7 billion, which already exist in the accounts of the National Bank of Serbia in the vault's deposit, we also plan to issue records of up to 4 billion dinars, so that total domestic funding is 15.7 billion. Another source to cover the deficit is private social revenues totaling 16.4 billion, including revenues from the privatisation of state banks. The government plans to sell or privatise state participation in three banks this year, namely Jubanke, Continental Bank and Novosadska Banka. The process is due to begin at the end of May this year. Donations will cover the deficit this year with 3.7 billion dinars. It is about the European Union's macro-financial assistance of about 50m euros and the rest of the 9.5 billion dinars are loans from international financial institutions, primarily the World Bank. This way, this deficit of 45.3 billion dinars is covered. In our belief, it is lower and real compared to last year, and also sustainable. The finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia seem to have managed to change the structure of spending on public investment. On the one hand, we had to, and it was our obligation, to keep social expenditures and increase them, so we had to keep them at the level set by law, and on the other hand, to find a way to increase public investment. In this budget of total public investment, 32.4 billion dinars were planned, while last year they were executed with 17.2 billion dinars. The participation of public investment in the social gross product this year is 2.6% and last year was 1.5%. So the real growth in investment in this budget, relative to the executions in the previous year, is even 73%. That makes this budget a developmental one. First I'd like to talk about the social security arrangements, so this social component of the budget, and then I'd like to introduce you to the development part of the budget. As for the obligations towards social insurance organisations, the government envisioned in the budget for this year 79.3 billion dinars for transfers to the Pension Fund, employees, the Pension Fund of Farmers, the Pension Fund of Independent Works, the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the National Employment Service. The largest transfer is to the Pension Fund of Employees, as many as 65.3 billion dinars, which is an increase of 10% compared to the previous year. Otherwise, this year's Pension Fund is planned for a total of 177.8 billion dinars, an increase of 20% compared to the previous year. I have to say, out of those 177.8 billion dinars, pension payments are about 140 billion. The finance ministry, unlike the previous one, will carry out a review of the Pension Fund. It seems to me that we may be able to find savings in some of the expenditures that are not related to pensions. As a result, from the beginning of next month, we will start to review the Pension Fund, given that these expenditures are large and perhaps there, in expenditures that are not related to pension payments, can be found by some estimates of savings of as much as 10 billion dinars. In previous years, perhaps decades, the Pension Fund has been delivering its plans, the government has fully covered the deficit as the Pension Fund has demonstrated, and no one has ever exercised control over the work of the Pension Fund. On the one hand, pensioners are dissatisfied with pension levels, and on the other hand there are huge public expenditures for pensions. This can only be examined in detail by reviewing all non-retired items. So, pensioners will normally receive pensions according to the law, but there are some expenditures that are not at all related to pension payments, where they must and can be found savings. We will inform the public if savings are found after this audit, then it will shift to investments or reduce the budget deficit by that amount. As for other funds, the Health Fund has also increased by 22.8%. And this fund will have one revision, because it needs to be seen if the invoices that health institutions expose to the Health Fund are real or high. We need to see exactly how these budgets are spent that our citizens spend through taxes and contributions. As for other institutions, the National Employment Service envisioned 14.5 billion dinars in its plan to help unemployed people, with a budget transfer of 6.1 billion. So, unfortunately, a lot of people remained unemployed during the previous years, the National Employment Service Fund increased by 47% compared to the previous year. The state must also take care of the unemployed, but above all by creating conditions for them to find a job, to reduce the state's expenditures on this basis, to make them more satisfied and to find a job. As for other expenditure on social protection, most of these expenditures are in the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs. A total of 28.5 billion dinars from this division are used and these are the following purposes: firstly, it is a €2.1 billion transition fund; then for the disease and disability of 8.3 billion dinars; for the protection of families and children 14.5 billion dinars; for social assistance to the endangered population of 3 billion and 600 million dinars; and of course, there are expenditures on feeding and housing refugees - a billion dinars, which are realised through the Republic's Commissioner for Refugees. Social protection in pre-school institutions, higher education, student and student standards, a total of 3.1 billion dinars, is provided for in the education ministry section. As for the development component of the budget, I will point out the biggest changes made in this budget compared to the previous year. These changes are, above all, in the sectors of the economy, traffic and agriculture. These three sectors have a significant increase in the budget, given the importance of encouraging these actions. As for the economy, a total of 11.2 billion dinars were planned to boost the economy, of which are incentives managed by the Ministry of Economy 8.7 billion and constitute subsidies to the economy, the Development Fund and the equipment of industrial enterprises. Billions of dinars are export stimuli and the item did not exist last year in the budget. These incentives are this time in the department of economic relations with abroad, an additional 1.5 billion dinars are in the military budget to encourage the dedicated industry. That's a total of 11.2 billion dinars. The next major increase in budget participation is in the transport sector, primarily the means to build new roads and rehabilitate the existing ones. So a total of 16.9 billion dinars were allocated to build new and rehabilitate existing roads, plus 700 million dinars to produce project documentation, so that these works could be done. These funds include the funds needed to pay off exploited land for road construction. I would take the opportunity, given that due to the shortness of time, there was no opportunity to detail the budgets that are in the direction, to briefly tell you which routes are planned for construction and rehabilitation. This is, above all, the directions Usce - Biljanovac, Šabac - Loznica, Baka Topola - Srbobran, Srbobran - Novi Sad, the border of Croatia - Kuzmin - Ruma, Ruma - Šimanovci, Šimanovci - Belgrade, Batajnica - Belgrade, Kuzmin - the border of the Republic of Serbia, Požavrac - Batokina, Pančevo - the borders of Romania, Čajetina - Kokin Brod, Kokokin Brod - Nova Varoš, Nova Varoš - Bistrica, Bistrica - Kolobrat, Kolovrat - Gostun, then Tamnava - Predjejane - Jep, Batocina - Doljevac (I apologize, I did not read how many kilometers of roads it is, I will give the explanation at the end of the collective figure), Boževica - Žop, Vladičina Han - Vrjičina - Vranje - Vranje - Petja - Petja - Štljavljavljavljavci - Bovljak, Štovci - Bovljak, Štovljak, Štovljak, Štovljak That's 980km of rehab. Then, new routes: Batajnica - bridge Beška, Dobanovci - Osrežnica, bridge via Sava in Osrežnica, tunnel Lipak, Pečevce - Grabovica, Komren - Prosek, bridges "Ratko Mitrović" in the municipality of Leskovac, works on the shares of Vladicin Han - border of Macedonia. I must tell you that this is the plan of the Ministry of Capital Investment, but like all programmes, so this plan will go to government approval, so the final plan will be approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to traffic infrastructure, the railway is intended for this budget of 8.8 billion dinars. The third sector which has a major change in the budget and which makes it a development component of this budget is agriculture, forestry and water economy. The total budget for agriculture, forestry and water industry is planned for 22.3 billion dinars, out of which is 20.3 billion dinars, while the rest are their own revenues. Of that, the pure agricultural budget is 18.8 billion dinars. Compared to the execution of the previous year, which amounted to seven billion dinars; that is an increase of nearly three times. There are three spending routes in this budget: the first direction is subsidies for agricultural producers; secondly, these are funds for lending re-romitions and equipment; and thirdly, they are investments in new laboratories, in the equipment of the veterinary service, to raise the quality of food produced in Serbia and to enable Serbia to export more food products. As for subsidies, the largest item is milk subsidy and industrial herbs - 5.9 billion dinars. From the industrial plant will be subsidized sugar tails, sunflowers, soybeans and tobacco. Also, subsidisation is envisaged in livestock, then for new plantations of plums and vines. To stimulate exports to agriculture, 600 million are foreseen, which means that total promotion of exports, if we add industry and agriculture, is 1,600,000 dinars. Also, this year's budget envisions two billion dinars for the purchase of wheat. This is the first time the government in the budget transparently and directly foresees funds for the purchase of wheat to fill the stock reserves. I have to say, last year, the government's intervention for the purchase of wheat for the stock reserves was modest. It was derived from the position - "Further Reserve", and due to the sale of wheat from goods, regardless of the extremely poor birth year, it came into the situation that the stock reserves were emptied, leading to an increase in the price of bread on the market. This government won't let this sort of thing happen again. That is why two billion dinars are scheduled for the purchase of wheat and the completion of strategic stock reserves, and the stock reserves will assess the situation on the market, not only in the current year, but in the next year, to make a strategic decision, how to manage those reserves. Because what was inherited from the previous government is what we now have on the market -- an increase in the price of bread. We can't let that happen. For this reason, two billion are explicitly intended for the redemption of wheat. Also, significant subsidies are intended to regress fertilisers and fuels, to professional agricultural services, to register agricultural holdings, to raise the quality of milk. As for these professional services, including veterinary services, I must say that it is not enough just to produce agricultural products. It is necessary to produce an appropriate quality, which will be able to be sold on the foreign market. On the one hand, this government will protect agriculture from imports of products produced in the country, but on the other hand we have to raise the quality of our agricultural products, in order not only this year, but also to increase exports to the medium term. As for the other projects in agriculture, I'd like to isolate something that's brand-new. These are funds for the short and medium-term lending of agricultural producers and, in practice, individual producers, or peasants. So, not the combinations, but the ones that work directly, and these are the peasants. These loans, on the one hand, will be granted for a period of six months to one year, without guarantees, without mortgages, the state is at risk because we want to help the villagers get re-promaterials, fertilizers, seeds and other things, so they can work normally. On the other hand, these are long-term loans for the purchase of equipment, not only agricultural machinery, but also for the construction of accompanying facilities. It'll be loans from one to five years. These loans will be granted at a interest rate of up to 3% per year. So the state takes it upon itself to solve once and for all problems in agriculture. Serbia is an agrarian country. That's why we have this kind of separation in the agriculture budget. There is the government's idea that, in addition to budget funds, bank funds are animated. Today, the potential of banks is untapped or loans are granted at extremely high interest rates at a relatively short deadline. The only way to motivate banks to extend credit repayment deadlines, to cut interest rates, is to reduce their business risks. At present, risks are, unfortunately, related to the existing inefficient justice system. That is why the budget envisions the financing of three funds for the insurance of bank loans. First, the guarantee fund, which already exists, but which has a modest capital. The previous government only set 80 million dinars at the beginning of this fund. We have planned funds for the recapitalisation of the guarantee fund and the funds for this budget are a billion and a half dinars. Therefore, the Guarantee Fund provides bank loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, for agriculture, these long-term loans, and for undeveloped areas. As for undeveloped areas, unfortunately there are more and more such areas in Serbia, they will also be dealt with by the Ministry of Economy through the Development Fund, but also by the Ministry of Finance through the guarantee fund for insurance of loans placed in undeveloped areas, where the guarantee to banks will be up to 80%. With that in mind, the Ministry of Finance will propose by the end of this month and a new guarantee fund law, which would allow, on the one hand, an increase in state guarantees to banks, if it is investments in agriculture and in undeveloped areas, and on the other hand, will allow direct agricultural producers to receive these loans, without obligation to register as businesses. The current restrictions for farmers were that the Development Fund required them to be registered as legal entities. We're going to change that through a change of law. Also, I'd like to say, when I mentioned the register of agricultural landowners, one of the big problems so far was that the premiums that the state had determined didn't entirely reach the farmer. Namely, various intermediaries, depending on the product that is subsidized - dairy, when it comes to milk, oil, when it comes to sunflower - kept funds and did not deliver to those who produce. We'll register the agricultural producers. So the subsidies will go directly to farmers' hands. When I say I don't mean cash, I mean that farmers will be registered and open an account in banks. In this way, we will increase the participation of the legal economy in our overall social gross product. Farmers who are registered will have these subsidies intended for the budget and the possibility of withdrawing these favourable loans that are provided here. As for other social activities, these are three key sectors where we expect recovery: industry, traffic and agriculture. Of course, traffic will pull construction, and as for the insurance of bank loans, we predicted 750 million for the establishment of a national housing insurance corporation and 500 million dinars to the export business fund. The priorities of the government must, on the one hand, be the reviving of production, but also the attracting of entirely new investments and, on the other hand, an increase in exports. The external trade deficit is huge. It amounts to almost five billion dollars in the previous year and we simply have to stop that deficit in every way. The deficit cannot be stopped by depression of course, as some have said in the previous period. The deficit will stop in two ways: by introducing non-tariff protection for those sectors where it is needed, and in those sectors where great losses have been achieved, I think we will even have to go to customs audits, with an adequate explanation for the European Union. We need to use a defense mechanism, a so-called security guard. So in the textiles and shoes industry, we can't accept the current protection. We're going to have to increase it, with an adequate explanation of what a loss of social product was in these branches in the previous period. Since we're not members of the World Trade Organisation, we can do it. Simply, by combining incentive measures and protecting those branches where we can hire our people, where we can be more productive, we have to give our economy a chance to recover and become more competitive. I must remind you that even after the liberalisation of foreign trade in the early years of reform in 1996, during Lajos Bokros, otherwise a very liberalally-oriented finance minister, raised one-time customs rates to an 18-month period. This is what the current government is thinking about, by joining selectively, of course, with a precise analysis of the competitiveness of our economy and of our exposure to foreign competition and with an agreement with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Also, as far as customs protection is concerned, we need to remove all problems related to a negative effective protection rate in some sectors. Where customs on raw materials is higher than customs on finished products, there have been some distortions during last year's talks on harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations. I think in the next three months, we need to examine all these safeguards in detail and set up an adequate customs policy, and above all, extra customs protection. In order to increase separations in industry, agriculture and traffic, of course we had to rationalise, or to cut other costs. Where are the savings made? First of all, the savings were made in those items that, I must admit, given that only two weeks we've been preparing this budget, they haven't been well explained by the previous government, and I have to admit, even now, from those services that have been inherited, we haven't received the right answer. Namely, it's about the fees in nature. It's the payoffs for the stamps for the transport. However, these amounts were indeed huge, exceeding the number of employees and the need for transportation stamps. Then, the prize item, bonuses and other expenses, we reduced it by 52% realistically. We've cut constant costs by 7%. The costs of official travel were reduced realistically by 15%, contracted services by 8%, current maintenance services by 5%, material costs by 8%, and, one particularly interesting item, fines and foams by 36% in real terms. In fact, it has been noted in the draft budget that large expenditures of the budget go to executive court rulings and that the state's representatives, in a surprising short time, resolve the damage to the state and disputes so that the state loses funds continuously. The logic was, the more funds were put into the budget for these purposes, the more judgments were made and the whole budget was spent. I think there's corruption. We will have to work to examine who actually represents the state and how such disputes can be resolved within a short period of time, while when an ordinary citizen goes to court it takes seven or eight years. Furthermore, what is new in this budget, and where significant savings have been achieved compared to last year, is a way of transferring to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In fact, the total transfers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro last year were budgeted as a whole. So Serbia has shown in the budget for Serbia as both Serbia and Montenegro. By doing so, Montenegro, although under the Constitutional Charter, has taken the obligation to finance 8% of the total expenditure of the state community, knowing that Serbia has budgeted 100% in its budget, has failed to carry out some expenditures and in the end, only 1% to 2%, all of which fell to the burden of Serbia's taxpayers. Now these expenditures, carried out for the state union and paid from Serbia's budget, are designed to be implemented according to a territorial approach, which was actually established by the Constitutional Charter. I have to tell you that these expenditures amount to 53.3 billion dinars, of which 46.8 billion dinars are planned for defence, or 88% of total expenditure to finance the common functions of the state community, while for foreign affairs, for the SMIP, 3.5 billion dinars, or 6.5% of total expenditure. I have to say, the SMIP and the Army stand out. The military received 20% more compared to the previous year and SMIP 21% higher. This year, Montenegro, knowing that Serbia will change the concept of budgeting, allocated funds for defence, which it did not do last year, so Montenegro's budget envisions funds to finance Serbia-Montenegro's joint functions on Montenegro's territory. As for our officers who carry out their duties in Montenegro's territory, they are in Serbia's budget; therefore, all those who live here. I'm saying this because there may be speculation in the debate. No one's been denied. The army got more than it had in previous years, but some expenditures, which we were forced to finance because we had budgeted everything in advance, are now saved. As far as social activities are concerned, of course I've already spoken about health care. As far as education is concerned, all commitments made to trade unions based on salary increases this year will be realised, noting that local self-government has taken over in primary and middle education. So these expenditures are not now in this budget, and they were in the budget for the previous year, for these reasons that the Law on Local Self-Government entered into force on January 1st. As far as science is concerned, there's been an increase in scientific separation in the social product, and I'll tell you exactly how much. So last year's science separation was 0.39% of the social gross product, this year it's going to be 0.43% of the social gross product. Of course that's not enough, but given this present possibility, I think it's a significant increase. The culture budget has been increased from 0.37% of the social gross product to 0.48% of the social gross yield. Translated into figures, as far as culture is concerned, for cultural programmes this year will be allocated three times more funds than in last year. The cultural division also envisions funds for the reconstruction of the Hilandar monastery of 1.2m euros, as well as funds for RTS. The funding of RTS was non-transparent last year. It was only before the elections that the previous government came from the item – the current reserve, which provided some RTS funds. You can assume to what end. Here, the allocation for RTS was brought forward into the budget of 3.2 billion dinars, to the final resolution of the institution's status as a public service. As far as science is concerned, I failed to say that, at its request, we have classified the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts as a special category in the budget, which is the difference between the previous budget and their requirement is fully met. The same goes for the Anti-Corruption Council, which is a special item in the budget. Of course, their proposal, which the Ministry of Finance appreciated, is that they are not in the department of finance, but that they have a special division. At the time of the previous government how corruption could have been fought if the finance ministry controlled the Anti-Corruption Council. On the contrary, the Anti-Corruption Council should also control the Ministry of Finance and the entire government, which is why they are singled out as a special item in this budget. Finally, I would like to say that this budget, on the one hand, provides a regular payment of all social benefits, pensions and others, when I say social contributions, I took a little economic classification. Pensions are not social benefits, but the right that has been achieved in a working relationship, but in economic terminology it is usually so classified. Pensions and social contributions are fully secured from this budget, but in the context of modest opportunities we managed to allocate almost double the funding for public investment, to start production and increase the social product. Of course, this budget also provides orderly service of debts, both domestic public debt and external debt. As for domestic public debt, it secures the payment of old foreign savings starting on May 31st. As you know, this year's war is 530 euros per savings role, but the new item is the first war to pay off commitments under the Zajm for Serbia's economic rebirth. You know it when that loan was made. Here, from 1989 to today, it's been almost 15 years, and we're going to get those funds back this year. The law will be in the process, for consideration, by the end of this month as well. We predicted that in four equal tranches we would settle these obligations, because no country that does not comply with the old obligations can count on it to ask citizens for a new borrowing. Given that modern states finance the budget deficit precisely by borrowing on the capital market, the only way for the state to start borrowing and covering the deficit that is not inflationary is for previous commitments based on the loan to settle, and we will do so. We predicted it in the budget this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate you taking a little more time than usual exposure, but it is still a serious legislative project, which is under the Budgetary System Act for six months. Unfortunately, we only had two weeks at our disposal. I apologize in advance for all the failures in the light of the law, and I hope that the adoption of this budget will also mean a turning point in the development of our economy, that we will finally begin to recover our economy. Of course, it will take time, but I am convinced that already this year we will have achieved the first positive shifts and send an appropriate signal to our citizens, that this government is really changing economic policy towards meeting the needs of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1291	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Milko Stimac, Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1292	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, we have heard the very comprehensive explanation of Mr. Minister's proposal for this year's budget. I will stress only a few basic features of this budget, respecting both your time and moment and the urgency of the whole budget process. At first glance, by looking at this draft budget, what can be singled out as its basic characteristic, that is justice and evenness. Of course, not absolutely, it is about ideals that are difficult to achieve, which need to be pursued, but relatively, in relation to previous budgets. We will remind ourselves that the entire tax architecture in the previous budget rests on small and medium-sized enterprises, precisely those entities that should have been encouraged, where the development of our economy should have rested, in law offices, crafts, etc. Big payers in the budget practically as if there wasn't any. Only 0.8% of the budget made payments from the property tax. The team is more likely to highlight the four new qualities of this proposal. The first is a qualitative coverage, there is a greater difference in the quality of the tax base. Just one example: so far the square meter of residential space has been valued the same, regardless of whether it's suburban settlements or about Dedinj and Senjak, in this proposal we get one progressive rock. Also, we can expect in the next period, it was said at the Committee's session, and the adoption of a law on gambling, which should open additional revenues for the budget. There's a quantitative coverage, an expansion of the tax base. The rate reduction alone is already enough motivation. When this is added to the control, the introduction of fiscal cash registers by established dynamics, with the necessary coercion due to tax evacuation, is practically one mechanism that balances between motivation, control and punishment. These three elements are more balanced. The relationship between tax benefits and losses if penalties arise because he does not register is more balanced and stimulating. This all together should give a better quantitative coverage to those who pay taxes, a wider tax base. The development component of the budget follows. I'd especially like to get a relationship to agriculture. For the first time, the budget recognises that we are a agricultural country in which almost one quarter of gross social product depends on agriculture or agricultural production. Therefore, specific dedicated resources for agriculture are allocated and, under these funds, the specific agrarian budget. This is the very development component of the budget that should bring us closer to what we were listening to and when it comes to the formation of this government, when it comes to the economic programme, which is the Irish model, i.e. selective state intervention, in terms of directing or encouraging those economic activities in which we have some comparative advantages on the world market. Finally, the fourth new quality this budget brings is the role of the state, not only in the development component, in encouraging certain activities, but also in developing the financial market by introducing new bond emissions, so the government's borrowing through the financial market, the developed state market institution, in this regard, which should lead to the rise in the overall investment performance of this market. This should allow us to re-introduce, in a very reasonable period of time, future contracts for the budgetary discharge of agricultural funding. As rapporteur of the Finance Committee, I'd say this much right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1293	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find there are 100 MPs present in the O.R. We can keep working. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Legislative committee, Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SPS, DS, G17 plus, DSS and SP-NS. A total of 29 MPs. I give my word to MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Milan Markovic be prepared. Rajko Baralic is not here. Please, Mr. Milan Markovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Susan Grubjesic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Knezevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the exposés of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I would just like to start with the priorities Mr Dinkic mentioned that the ministry will do in the first 100 days and then I would like to comment on the budget and the draft laws that we need to adopt today. As priority number one, a new budget has just been redesigned and, unlike the one proposed by the outgoing government, anti-recessions. Secondly, it is a reorganisation and modernisation of the tax administration and customs, in order to prepare the ground for the reduction of wages tax and the introduction of value added tax and to avoid a catastrophic situation that threatens the EU with regard to the abolition of export preferences, not only sugar but also other goods. Third, it is a reform of the tax administration that is in an uninvited situation, with outdated equipment, burdened with bureaucratic procedures and corruption. Fourthly, after the adoption of the budget, there is a set of important tax laws that we will get to consider in parliament as soon as possible. This is the first VAT law to be applied from 1 January 2005. This law has already been filed in the previous assembly, but many amendments are necessary to adopt the law, and its application is delayed because it is necessary to make urgent preparations both in the tax administration and in the economy. The aim of introducing this law, just to remind, is to reduce the participation of the grey economy in the gross social product, which is currently estimated to be about 30%. The second quarter should adopt a radical reduction in the burden on salaries and the adoption of laws that will introduce order in the work of insurance companies and the formation of an independent institution to oversee the work of insurance companies. We have an obligation to adopt a new budget by 31 March, because then the temporary funding expires. This budget, as I've already said, has a developmental component, not a recession component. Based on what parameters does that prove? That's what the minister was talking about, I'm not going to go into details from his exposé. I'll just mention the most important facts. In 2004, GDP growth of 4.3% is foreseen. Last year, 2003, GDP growth was between 1.5% and 2.5%. In 2004, annual inflation was estimated at around 8-9.5%, as it was 1.4% in the first two months of this year. Last year inflation was 7.8%. What are the development components of this budget? It's a separation for agriculture, forestry and water industry, which are three times larger than they were last year. So this year they're 22.3 billion dinars. For the past year, seven billion dinars. Of that, the pure agricultural budget is 18.8 billion dinars. There are subsidies for milk, industrial plants, livestock, new plantations of plums, vines, worth 5.9 billion dinars, encouraging agricultural production exports of 600 million dinars. Then, for the first time in the budget, a buy-in of wheat appears to fill the stock reserves of two billion dinars. Then, the regression of mineral fertilisers and fuels, amounting to one billion; improvement of product quality, professional agricultural services, etc. The next newspaper is loans to agriculture of 3.8 billion dinars, short- and medium-term. Short-term loans will be paid from the budget from 6 months to one year for trade funds, with a very favourable 3% interest on an annual level without guarantees and without mortgage. The medium-term loans will be granted through the guarantee fund banks for a period of one to five years, mainly for the machinery of agriculture, also with very favourable interest. Production growth for 2004 looks like this. Industrial production -- projections are that it will rise by 2%. In 2003, it was less by 3% than planned. Agriculture - planned growth of 8%, which would bring us back to the 2002 agricultural production level with this growth. Construction -- projected growth of 5%, trade 4%, traffic and other activities 4%. Budget revenues for this year are planned at 329.3 billion dinars, which is 21.6% more than in the previous year. To remind you, last year budget revenues were realised at 271 billion dinars. In fact, there are two, four billion dinars of stored revenue, which were returned to BK Company by the Supreme Court decision. Budget expenditures last year were 318 billion dinars, and this year they were planned to be 374 billion dinars. The deficit, therefore, was 45.3 billion dinars, and last year it was 46.9 billion dinars, i.e. the deficit for this year was 3.6% compared to the gross social product, and last year it was 4%. The minister is listed as the sources for funding the deficits. These are, above all, the net domestic finances, meaning the deposits from the National Bank of Serbia and the privatisation revenues from last year, government bonds, privatisation revenues, and above all from the privatisation of state banks, donations to the European Union budget and loans from international financial institutions. That all gives 15.7 billion dinars. The budget envisions a greater involvement of public investment. So for the last year there were 17 billion dinars of public investment, i.e. 1.5% of gross social product; for this year it is 32.4 billion dinars, i.e. 2.6% of gross social product, which accounts for a growth of 73%. The newspapers in this budget are savings, first of all, in rationalising costs in the state administration. This does not mean that a serious reform of the state administration has begun, but some savings have already been made, primarily on items such as official travel 15%, fees in nature 13%, bonuses, prizes 52%, contracts 8%, material costs 8%, etc. The second savings were made in funding the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. For 2003, the government's budget amounted to 59 billion dinars, with 53.3 billion dinars planned for this year, a savings of 6 billion dinars. The savings were made at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the diplomatic and consular representations of Serbia-Montenegro abroad. Otherwise, costs for Serbia-Montenegro as a whole were shown in 2003, for the entire state community, and this year they went on a territorial principle, so only those costs that Serbia is realising were shown. I wouldn't go into the details of social giving, it's already explained, maybe some of my colleagues will say more about it, I'm just saying that in addition to the development component, the budget has a strong social dimension. So, for pension, health, social security funds, as well as for the unemployment fund, i.e. the National Employment Service, transfers have increased from 10%, as far as the pension fund is concerned, to 47%, how much transfers for the National Employment Service have been increased. I wouldn't go into details anymore. Let me just point out, for the first time in the budget, expenditure on social action has been increased, primarily for scientific and research projects transfers are 40% higher; then for cultural programmes, transfers are three times higher than last year, which means, not for the Ministry of Culture, but for cultural programmes. The ministry has allocated 1.3m euros to rebuild Hilandara. Fifty million dinars have been allocated for the maintenance of the White and Old Court. As far as education is concerned, agreed dynamics will be respected on the increase in labour prices on three occasions and pay increases in line with collective agreements. So all commitments, i.e. all rights of various social categories, are retained in this budget and total transfers to funds, to social funds amount to 79.3 billion dinars, which is much greater than the total deficit of this budget. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1296	Thank you. As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the Assembly, the DS will not vote for the proposed 2004 budget. I will try to give a critical assessment of the proposed 2004 budget project as soon as possible. First of all, it is very difficult to discuss the budget without having previously delivered a document called the Memorandum of Economic Policy. Basic budget projections were made only on the basis of two, I would say, figures, which is the assumption of the growth of gross social product in 2004 and the projected inflation that even, as it was given, is not defined on a precise level, but in a range that is greater than 1.5%. It remains unclear why after a three-year continuous inflation reduction, inflation rises by more than 2% next year compared to the year 2003. When I say - The Memorandum of macroeconomic policy, then I don't just think about the 2004 period, the new government that predicates to be reform must give its four-year reform economic programme, and that the 2004 budget is just the first phase in the realisation of transition economic policy. All the time from this pay phone, the government and the minister and, on the other hand, the MP who spoke before me are trying to characterise the budget as a developmental one, and I would rather say that the budget is social, so even at one point, reading the budget, I thought maybe the new early parliamentary elections were coming. Why am I saying this? Because of the rise in the level of current consumption compared to the previous period. This higher level of current consumption is particularly reflected in salaries paid directly from the budget. I have to say that this is a very wrong way of leading economic policy in the future, because instead of affecting the reduction of the overall demand, it will directly contribute to increasing demand. It is known that domestic goods funds are not enough to suppress increased demand and this will affect the increased external trade deficit. That's why I think the budget is social, I don't mind. The state is currently in such a state where, among other things, the social component of the budget must prevail. On the other hand, artificial advertising in the budget has been artificially raised, so an apparent picture is being created that the budget is developmental. Let's see what the projected categories look like: revenues, expenditures, budget deficits and projected coverage of the budget deficit. First of all, I want to say that budget revenues were completely unrealistically highly projected, at 329 billion, if we have in mind that the total budget revenues last year were 285 billion dinars, that the revenues in the first three months, regardless of the first quarter cannot be compared to the other quarter, but it creates and gives one indication, 68 billion; and only those two figures speak enough, with projected inflation, that it is impossible to achieve the revenues of 329 billion. This is because there will be no key fiscal, reform law in this year, which is a value added tax, which should be a guarantee of increased collection of budget revenues. In addition, fiscalisation, or the introduction of fiscal cash registers, is a business that will obviously continue throughout this year and will also not contribute to the expansion of the tax base. On the other hand, when you look at expenses, then you can clearly see that some categories are underrated. You can't see the stock deficit. It is said that the total budget deficit is 45 billion dinars. The deficit in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund is said to be five billion dinars, a total of 50 billion, and it is openly expressed, based on one detailed analysis, that an additional deficit of five billion dinars is hidden in the defined PIO fund. All together, we come up with a figure of 55 billion budget and trust deficit. Has the discharge of the economy been carried out? By abolishing the income tax, it is true, an economy of approximately eight billion has been disbursed and local self-government has been directly affected, because it is the direct income that local self-government is taking. But when you take a closer look, you'll see that you're predicting an increased amount of harvesting, so-called. excise incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, excise revenues can be collected from the economy or from the population. You know what this is about: on one side, it's vividly showing that there's a redundancy of the economy, and essentially the economy is being additionally burdened, because it's enough to look at the level of projected budget expenditures, so there's no talking about discharging the economy in the next period. Covering the deficit. Does anyone in this hall believe it is possible in 2004 to collect 300m euros in privatisation revenue, of which 220m will go into the budget and the rest be distributed in accordance with the Privatisation Act? Whoever knows four banks in the privatisation process knows that it is possible to obtain income only from one bank, not nearly as planned to cover the budget deficit, unless there is a quick privatisation of telecommunications, or the oil industry of Serbia, or the work of the oil industry in Serbia. If a transparent procedure is wanted in accordance with the law, it is necessary for the process to be completed for at least nine months. Therefore, those revenues are gone. Let's see if it's realistic to raise four billion dinars from the population, in fact, in debt on the financial market, while also spending the last reserve the state has since the previous privatisation revenues. Those four billion revenues, which will be collected, will be a direct attack on the reduction of private funding. These are free funds, located on the financial market. Instead of private investors using these funds to invest, the state will raise four billion dinars and use them for what? For liquid consumption. Especially for me is a discriminatory way of a net foreign debt, which I will talk about a little later, given that the foreign debt of 9.5 billion dinars implies a prior agreement with international financial organisations, which, among other things, is the debt, i.e. these credit lines and provides. Since the political coalition that formed the government had different economic programmes in its pre-election campaign, it would be interesting to see how the budget as one basic instrument for realising economic policy reflects what was announced in the pre-election campaign? It is very difficult to define a single economic policy by four political parties that have formed a political coalition. Each one of them said it was a reform, even in the economic part of the party-oriented. Everyone said it was necessary to reduce the so-called. State interventionism in the economy and strengthen the degree of market economy. And of course, there were a lot of promises, especially promises relating to the field of privatisation, change of concept, ways of spending on privatisation, etc. Let's see how this is reflected in the proposed budget. First, I have not seen in this budget any key reform procedures, which the government intends to implement in the first year of its mandate. Two key reform procedures are the restructuring of public spending, i.e. the reduction of public spending and restructuring of public enterprises. As I said a little bit, public spending does not decrease, but rather increases. If you compare this with the draft budget for this year, which the previous government sent to parliament in November, you will see that public spending in this proposal is higher by eight billion dinars. If we really want to disburse the economy, then we need to reduce current consumption in total budget expenditure. If one government wants to be a reform government, or represents itself as a reform government, and if it wants to ensure the continuity of economic reforms, then this is a key move, which is painful, is unpopular, but it has to be done if we want to end up with a self-sustaining economy. If he doesn't do it in the first year, in the second year, the chances of such a procedure are less realistic, primarily for political reasons, which, of course, you know a lot better than I do. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Vlahovic, let me ask you, do you want to use it all the time? Yes. (President: Thank you. ) With regard to the restructuring of public enterprises, I have indeed not seen in the budget a single position that directly or indirectly suggests that the government is ready to accept also a very responsible job, which means suppressing indifference in the Serbian economy. Two positions are symptomatic. One, nine billion for the Railway-Transport company, exactly 7.5 in the proposed budget in the division - Capital Investments, plus a billion and how much was spent in the first three months, totalling about nine billion. And on the other hand, 2.1 billion for the Transition Fund, where, as you know, the funding for those who have lost their jobs is because they are economically and technologically surplus. The position of the Transition Fund in the last year was 7.5 billion dinars, with the real amount of severance for all social enterprises in the restructuring process. Of the 2.1 billion you can finance severances for 12,000 workers, no more. You know very well how much economic and technological surpluses are in public enterprises, EPS, railway-transport companies, etc. I ask the question, is the government not ready to enter the process of restructuring public enterprises or is it perhaps ready to enter and does not want to finance severances for those who will be economically and technologically surplus? What is definitely true is that there are many more people working in these companies than it really is necessary for these companies to be good for their economic efficiency. On the other hand, nine billion dinars are planned for ZTP, and this position goes directly to fund the payment fund. So there's no restructuring of the railway-transport company. If there is no restructuring of the railway-transport company, then we still have one key liquidity blocker in the Serbian economy, so I don't see how this business activity based on previously implemented processes will be raised in the next period. The previous government was criticised for being too mixed up, for being very involved in the economy, especially in the social economy. In other words, we were criticised for the amount of subsidies used for those companies that were in the restructuring process. Today, we received confirmation from the finance minister that, despite a different story in the election campaign, the level of subsidisation will be even higher. Of course, I welcome that it has given up many pre-election promises, because it is good and it is an absolute way to continue the restructuring of the economy, as I welcome that it has given up the change in the concept of privatisation or the way in which privatisation revenues are spent, because these privatisation revenues are as large as they are, and they are too optimistic, they are planned to merge completely into the budget. So there's no pre-election story -- we're going to separate revenues from some kind of development funds, so we're going to finance projects, etc. It's a good thing it gave up those pre-election promises, because this is how the financial unity of the budget is preserved. I don't want to talk a lot about what local self-government is going to mean to reduce tax collection on a fund of earnings or a salary fund. That will be discussed by MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but it is certainly unclear how this amount of income will be replaced by which local self-government will remain denied. In other words, it is unclear why the pre-election declared principle of decentralisation is in practice, and the budget is a key practice and a key instrument, indeed not implemented. When you look at two key points on the basis of which the budget is claimed to be developmental, it is, in my opinion, the Ministry of Capital Investments and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. As for capital investments, the level of financing of the construction of new and repairing existing roads directly from budget revenues is lower than it was last year. Last year we had eight billion dinars planned, and this year we have, I think, 6.4 billion dinars. What do we got? We have loans from the European Investment Bank, loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which were agreed in the previous period, in the previous year. It is unclear why then the amount of funds envisaged for road reconstruction, based on agreed and approved loans, is less than possible, and as far as possible we have shown by the previous draft budget where the investment level was higher by more than 2.5 billion dinars. Therefore, there are no large sensational investments in the position of the Capital Investment Ministry. There are previously agreed loans left as an inheritance to the new government and there is a budget position that is smaller than was foreseen last year. On the other hand, the agricultural budget. It is true, it is significantly larger, not three times, but twice, than what was envisaged and realised in the previous year, in 2003. But, let's see, there's a story about two billion that stand out to buy out the wheat. I would like to remind you that stock reserves buy excess wheat from agricultural producers, not some mandatory buy-in that carry out stock reserves and remind me that this is not the first time that the budget position is defined for the purchase of wheat. It is true that last year the level of market surpluses was significantly lower than we expected, than the state expected, due to the extremely dry year. It is not true that in the past three years no farmer, an individual agricultural producer, has lost the promised price defined for the purchase of wheat. So, if you're going to have two, three, a billion or five hundred, that depends on whether you have market surpluses and depends on how much you're willing to go at the price of protection. I'd like to see very quickly what would be the protection price for buying out the wheat, and only then will we make complete tickets. Of course, I welcome this second part of the increased agrarian budget, but I'm afraid it's precisely because of significantly less revenue than is projected, which is going to happen, that first the agrarian budget will suffer, with these two billion unclearly defined items to improve the quality of agricultural products, but of course it will be a problem for whoever realises this budget. For me, personally, it is a worrying circumstance that there is no agreement between the government and the IMF. Of course, we can like or dislike the IMF, but without an agreement with the IMF, we cannot expect to cover the budget deficit as planned. The direct effects of the lack of agreement are 7.5 billion dinars, as defined by the World Bank from three tranches to cover the budget deficit, and that is something that will not exist. The remaining part of up to 9.5 billion, the difference in the European Union's macro-financial assistance, also will not exist. Directly for projects, for investments agreed by the European Investment Bank, at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Road Bank will also not be allocated. Directly in privatisation, do not expect any privatisation revenue to be collected unless you have IMF support. Don't forget the Paris Club. The write-off is 51% plus 15%. These 15% three years after the initial 51% write-off, but on condition that a stand-by arrangement with the IMF is respected. If there is no agreement with the IMF, it is $700m of a new debt burden for Serbian taxpayers. Therefore, I would not accept the lack of agreement so easily, because it seems to me that the scenario in the end will be, when the deficit is significantly higher than it can be covered (the scenario has been known to us since the 1990s) – please contact the central bank for a net domestic debt to cover that deficit. But then I'm afraid it's destabilising public finances with inconceivable consequences. To conclude, the budget is not developmental. The budget is social, with a significant salary increase, which will result in a significant increase in demand and an increase in the external trade deficit. The budget is not a discharge for the economy. From spectacular discharges, we have received two billion new burdens, and this is the net effect of increased excise duties and reduced income taxes. Finally, the budget, if adopted, and we warn you in front of the DS parliamentary group, can also negatively affect the state of public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1298	Representative of the government, Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1299	Thank you, Mr. President. Given that this is not about any DS MP, but about the previous privatisation minister, I had an obligation to contact this occasion. On the basis of other discussions, I will report, but not so often. It seems to me that MPs have an obligation to tell Serbian citizens the truth. The truth means that when you're dealing with numbers, you're saying the exact numbers. You are here, Mr. Vlahovic, a few digits, do you by any chance, do I deliberately not enter your motives, knowingly lie and tell the truth. (President: Mr Dinkic, please, words are chosen in this House. There may have been a hoax, but no one here is lying. Thank you. ) Well, if this isn't about the truth, then anyway it's about lack of knowledge from mathematics, because if the planned agrarian budget is over 20 billion, the execution was seven billion, is it just twice as big? What's 20 billion divided by seven? It's not two. Next, if you're talking about the transition fund being 7.1 billion, why don't you tell the truth that it wasn't 7.1 billion, but 5.4. If you speak consistently, you must speak either of plans or of execution. You, when it suits you, spoke of plans, when it suits you, of execution. So the transition fund was executed with 5.4 billion and it's true that this government planned 2.1 billion because it has no intention, unlike you, of firing people. What are you talking about restructuring the railway, what has been achieved in the restructuring of the railway during your term of office? Are your locomotives in good shape? What's the condition of the tracks? Where was that money spent that you allegedly invested in rail restructuring over the last three years? If you're talking to businessmen, the goods can't be exported abroad because our railways can't do that, because they don't have enough locomotives. If you spent money for some purpose, and that didn't work, is it called restructuring or archiving state and people's money? When you talk about the character of the budget and first of all mention the pension fund, then you should have asked around your former finance minister first, as he was showing loans to the pension fund and where the 8.5 billion of these loans work, which is not transparently shown in the deficit last year. Because the deficit that has been publicly shown is 43 billion, but when a loan is included, which according to all the rules responsible for managing public finances would have to enter the deficit, the deficit was actually over 50 billion dinars last year, what your government achieved, or 4.6% of the social gross product. Unlike your government, we put all costs into the budget right now. You have an objection to the pension fund. As far as the pension fund is concerned, all we can talk about is that the pension insurance fund plan is unrealistic, not that the government has not placed enough transfers for the pension fund. Because we've increased the transfers compared to your execution by 10%. What I was saying in the opening statement, we're going to do a review of the pension fund, to see if pension funds are funded only by pensions or some expenditure that have no function with pensions. It seems to me that you've been hiding things, but I hope after the pension fund's audit, the public will find out how much our citizens pay for pensions, how much pensioners get, and who gets billions of other funds that don't go to pensioners. Of course, it won't just apply to the pension fund, I just want to say for the public that this government has foreseen a orderly settlement of all pensions, but we believe that the pension fund has adequate costs that have nothing to do with pensions. You are talking about the goal of every government to reduce public spending, you expressed your disappointment – why this government did not. I want to remind you that even with respect to your declared deficit, namely the government deficit, which was 4% of the social product, this deficit is lower by 0.4% of the social gross product, but I have one more thing to say. You must know, if the other members of the DS Parliament Club don't know what you've been doing with public spending in the last month and a half before the 2003 elections. You certainly know that public spending exploded from 20 November to the end of December last year, when you spent almost 400m euros in privatisation revenue for just a month and a half. Why did you spend it? First of all, these are the various expenditures of the budget, it's the return of 2.4 billion BK companies, was it an incentive of the economy or was it a public spending that was unfounded? So, if because of the election, wanting to win the election, you went into excessive public spending that hasn't been remembered in three years, what you spent in that month and a half, how do you even have any moral right to now speak to the new government, which has to assume rights based on greater pension financing, that you need to immediately, in the first few months, reduce and reduce public spending? Of course, the way to reduce public consumption is to increase production and social product, so that its absolute participation, which remains the same, is relatively reduced. So, it's not realistic to expect, after the expansion that the previous government did in public consumption, when writing down, I have to say, those 400m euros per public expenditure, that now, within a short time, it is replaced by a reduction in this year. However, this government will last longer than a year and in the following year we will go, after increasing the social product, to a relative reduction in public spending in the social gross product. Also, as far as local self-government is concerned, I don't think that's where you brought the facts, but you improvised. It seems to me that I've been perfectly clear in the opening statement, the suspension of the salary tax is being replaced by the increased participation of local self-government in salary tax from five to 30 percent, because we have two taxes on salaries, a net salary tax and a gross salary tax. The tax on gross wages is abolished, and in the net salary tax, the participation of local self-government in income increases by 5% as much as today, to 30%, thus actuating these effects. For those local self-governments where these effects are not analised, there is an increase in participation in sales tax, and for those local self-governments where these effects are greater, these are primarily developed cities, there is a reduction in the share of sales tax, in order to give neutral effects for local self-government. I have to say, in the case of one city, this calculation has given effects that don't go into use by that local self-government, which is the town of Kragujevac. I promise the Ministry of Finance from the current reserve over the year will compensate that difference in Kragujevac. It's the only city that's really damaged by some 40 million dinars in this math. As for the stock reserves and the remarks that the government has committed two billion dinars to buying out wheat, I don't know how the previous government's representatives have the moral right to speak of it, when they put the country in a position to run out of wheat in stock, and to lead to an increase in the price of bread and endanger the standard of the population. There would be no increase in the price of bread if there were enough wheat in the stock reserves, and if there was enough, the question arises why was it exported in the dry year, when the stork was bad and when prices on the market were known to rise? Did the government have an agreement with some lobbys to export at one price and then force it to import at a higher price? In any case, the price was paid immediately by the citizens, through the price of bread. I will not talk about the consequences of the government's work on agriculture, where we have been sanctioned by the European Union for malpracticing in the re-export of sugar. Also, I'm not going to talk about the fact that the item is smaller, as you said, but it's 2.5 times bigger. It's also about your observation of the knowledge of mathematics and of the exposure here, where perhaps you haven't consciously used your mathematical knowledge in which I don't doubt. And finally, when we talk about a deal between the government and the IMF, you'd have to be honest. If you were, then you would tell Serbian citizens that no arrangement with the IMF has been made since August of last year. Based on your presentation, it could be concluded that Serbia allegedly has continuity in arrangements with the IMF. On the contrary, the moment you replaced the previous governor, arrangements with the IMF disappeared and no tranche was withdrawn after the negotiations were concluded in July of last year. So, from July to today, no tranche has been withdrawn. Unlike your government that broke up with the IMF, this government will return that relationship back to the old era and by the end of June we will withdraw two tranches from the IMF. By scaring the MPs and citizens that the new government will lose the help of the European Union, how do I understand - whether you want good to this country or not? I guarantee you, it will also show time, we will have, unlike your government, and a restored relationship with the IMF, and we will continue normal co-operation with the European Union, the World Bank and other financial organisations. In the end, this budget is developmental, no matter what you're trying to prove it isn't. How much your budget has been developmental has shown a decline in industrial production in the past year, and how much this budget is a developmental trend that I am convinced will be achieved this year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1300	Thank you. He is entitled to the replica of Mr Vlahovic - as well as the hint of injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1301	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the basis for my reporting is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the member of the 100th and of course the replica of the previous exhibition. In fact, article 100 says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to address one another with respect. Mr. Minister is not a People's MP, but I assume this applies to all the participants in the work of parliament. (President: Mr Vlahovicu, this is not a matter of hurting the Rules of Procedure, this is what I have warned, this member exclusively applies to MPs. Here, use the right to replicate. I thank you. I remain in that there has been a breach of the provisions of Article 100, and now I will use my right to replicate. The first thing I'm saying is that today's assembly is not a debate on the trust of the previous government. The previous government held a debate in October -- last November and, among other things, because of its courage to realise reform processes paid its price in previous elections. The theme of today's Assembly is the proposed budget for 2004. I am very sorry if any constructive criticism is understood and tries to present in the form of some possible happiness of opposition MPs if the World Bank, the IMF or the European Union lacks support. Of course, that's not true, so that's why we're responsible and we're warning, that it wouldn't happen, that it's necessary to make a change to the proposal, because it's all right why the IMF didn't give the green light to the proposed budget that we're discussing today. It is known that the budget is the key legal document of a government in one year. I express my dissatisfaction that today only the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, and no other minister should explain his portfolio. What I said in my presentation, I keep thinking, and I'm staying on it. [[Applause]] Mr. Minister has confirmed this in an indirect way, which means that the level of funds in the transition fund is far less than it was in last year, at least for the double, as measured by the execution, although statistics say it is desirable to compare the plan with the plan and plan with the implementation of the plan, not the plan with the implementation of the previous plan; therefore I compared the plan with the plan, and here I agree and compare the plan with the execution - I am very interested in how much execution will be at the end of the year, among other things and in this position. (President: Mr. Vlahovic, time is up. I'll be done soon. So I made it very clear that when it comes to the pension fund, the pension fund deficit is recognised. That's what I'm staying with. I'm not talking about whether there was some kind of mismanagement in the previous period. That's what the budget inspection is about, and I'd really like the budget inspection report to arrive as soon as possible and to discuss it once and for all and not to talk about it afterwards. And quite in the end, and how we have the moral right to talk about all this because, gentlemen, the MPs, you know that the budget rights are legally obtained. It can't be the government's decision or the minister's decision. Therefore, if there was an increase in rights in the last quarter last year, those increased rights had their basis in the laws passed by this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1302	Thank you. As head of the parliamentary group, he has the word Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1303	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to comment on what happened before the previous session held this afternoon before the SPS's position on the draft budget and other accompanying laws. I think it is clear to everyone, and that is what I want to say on behalf of the SPS, that it is very important that the session on Kosovo and Metohija -- which, at the conclusion of the heads of parliament, is agreed on -- is indeed held as soon as possible. There's no need to compete over it and score political points. It is also very important that this session, as agreed, be held as soon as possible, and given that this session will take a shorter time than it is scheduled, it will be time for it to be held in the next few days. Also, I think it is clear to everyone, regardless of the budget formally proposed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the Ministry of Finance headed by Mladjan Dinkic, that this is a budget that continues to identify the traces of the government of Zoran Zivkovic and the finance minister of Bozidar Djelic. This is also normal, because the first thing the government did after its election was to withdraw the already proposed text of the budget law and in a few weeks' work, did some of its proposals based on what the government of Zoran Zivkovic proposed. I think that even the previous polemics that were among those who were in the government of Zoran Zivkovic with the proposal of this budget are not designed because this budget is a clear combination and a combination of the previous and the current government. That's also normal, because the normal time for budgeting was November and December of last year. As you know, the SPS expressed certain expectations in the economic and social sphere of the new government during the election of the Republic government. If we do not count on political facts and what we expect in the political sphere, what is most important and what can be said as our expectation is to raise the rate of gross social product, production and living standards of citizens, reduce unemployment and poverty, social dialogue, amend the Labour and Privatisation Act, fight against corruption, etc. Of course it's hard for the budget to be developing at the same time, but also social. It's hard for the budget to have both developmental and social functions at the same time. I think that, in this sense, certain shifts that have occurred can be positively interpreted, such as an increase in the percentage of the gross social product that is separate from public investment. It used to be 4% of the expenditure or 1.14% of the gross social product. It is now proposed 6.29% of the expenditure or 2% of the gross social product. We need faster growth of public and private investment; of course, someone can interpret in different ways, but the positive experiences of the government that ruled before DOS came to power are that the budgets at that time had one distinct development component and in that period (00 I think people who do this work know that) industrial production and gross social product were bigger than in the past few years. In the period from 1996 to 1998, I wouldn't talk about exports, I'm only talking about industrial production, we had a very active role of the Development Fund. Of course, it is good that, in the first step of this budget, it is noticeable that public expenditure has been redeployed in favour of investments, primarily in the area of infrastructure and agriculture. Of course, it is also necessary to activate credit lines and credit insurance institutions to launch production. That's very significant. Building housing, housing loans, is not only important for citizens who do not have apartments and their families, but it is important because housing is a driver for the development of the entire economy and all other businesses. Then export credits are also very important because in our country there is an external trade deficit that is the largest in our country's history. Also, loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, for agriculture and something that may have been forgotten in past times -- loans for underdeveloped areas. It is noted that average increases in revenues and reduced budget expenditures have been seen. There is still a deficit in the budget. And this budget, like previous budgets, has a deficit. We don't think that's good. Someone, of course, will again, without any insight into the economic problem and the economic significance of that word, comment on it wrong, and I would remind you that the government led by the SPS at the time of hyperinflation had a budget financing from real income, without deficits in the budget. I think it's a good thing the deficit is smaller than under the leadership of Minister Djelic, it's a good thing there's a deficit drop, but Minister Dinkic also said earlier that the deficit in the past budget was practically higher than it was planned. If what he said is true, and there's no reason to at least trust him at first, that deficit was 51 billion dinars last year. Also, Mr. Vlahovic just spoke about the privatisation revenues. He expressed doubt that in this year he could take so much money from privatisation. I don't know why he voiced doubt when the previous government of Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the position be 20 billion, and 16 billion dinars are foreseen here. Even the government of Zoran Zivkovic was more optimistic than the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's what it said to Mr. Vlahovic; if you haven't read what your Prime Minister signed, that's another question. Privatisation revenues -- you sold several strategic enterprises; you earned 600m euros last year from privatisation. In November and December, you spent 400m euros. You sold capital facilities in Serbia, the tobacco industry from Nis, which you would know to sell each one. It's hard to sell something nobody wants to buy. And what everyone wants to buy doesn't need to be an expert, so sell it at a bargain price, Mr. Vlahovci, since I see you're all some alleged experts here. Mr. Vlahovic has just expressed himself negatively about it, but I think it is necessary for the budget to hold an item on how the money that has been taken from privatisation is being spent. The factory, Serbia's companies do not have a million, cannot be sold every year for 20 or 30 or 50, there are not so many for sale. We have a situation that for what we have sold, a strategically important factory, we have taken some money; it has been spent for two months in some funds, I suppose, public spending. And Serbia's economy didn't even get the euro from it. We propose, and this is what we suggest to Minister Dinkic, to record exactly how funds are spent in the privatisation process. (The Chairman, Emilia Krstic: Mr Dacic, I apologize, do you use the next 10 minutes? Yes. It is also necessary for the Development Fund to be one of the main factors that will encourage the development of Serbia's economy. Privatisation is not by itself a goal, the previous government was wrong. Privatisation is not by itself a goal, but a means for businesses to work better, for workers to have higher salaries and for the state to collect higher revenues. We've had completely opposite things. It is good that there are subsidies to the economy and agriculture in this budget, but we also think that the Development Fund must be given maximum attention and that the funds used this time seem to be a complement to the funds being renewed and already existing in the Development Fund are not enough to launch production in Serbia. As for agriculture, when we talk about agriculture, it was the first time last year that Serbia imported wheat after a long period of years. In the past year, it seems to me that I've read this information somewhere, not even 10,000 tons of wheat from peasants. I'd like to remind you that at a time when we were in power, we were bought two million tons a year from peasants. Serbia's stock reserves never had less than 700,000 tonnes of mandatory reserve so that Serbia would not be hungry and would not have to import wheat. For the first time during the government of the previous government, it was precisely that Serbia was importing wheat. We believe that this time the money allocated for 200,000 tonnes of wheat is not enough, that it is necessary for Serbia to have food stability that can be seen through it, in terms of reserves, to be at least 700,000 tonnes in Serbia's stock reserves. On the other hand, what the SPS insists on is very important, and these are social security rights. Of course, orderly pension payments, budget transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, 21% are precisely these transfers from total budget expenditures. But what's worrying? It's alarming that, for example, the PIO Fund used 86% of its own contributions, up to a few years ago, ladies and gentlemen, and now it's only 56%. The rest are state budget donations. Of course it's because there's no economy, there's no one to pay contributions, because 400,000 people have been fired in three years, millions of people are unemployed and it's normal to have no contributions, it's normal for the state to finance it from the state budget. We insist, of course, that we stand in the way of the easy layoff of workers. It's a big social problem. If it continues at this pace that DOS has started, in Serbia there will be much fewer employees than those who can work, and they have no chance of doing so. School fees have to be less. In Serbia, there are no colleges where tuitions are the largest in Europe. Is our standard the biggest in Europe, is that possible? Health care - health care cannot be a privilege only of the rich; therefore it is necessary to achieve a whole series of mechanisms in order to be able to exercise health insurance rights and those who remain jobless, those who have no insurance. I'd like to remind you that just three months after we're off the labour market, they're running out of health insurance. How will they be treated? So, of course, I'm saying tax-basedly, it is necessary that the situation in which we are located and the assistance committed to Kosovo and Metohija is greater, better and more organised, for the state to be present in Kosovo and Metohija. If we are not there, if there are no politicians, if there are no state institutions, if there are no state institutions, if there are no journalists to record the lit Serb churches, it is normal that the first news in the world, because there are no others, will be the mosque. It's a question for all of us why that is. I only hope that those who have said for 10 years that the problem in Cosmet is the lack of human rights of Albanians, not their separatism, finally dissuaded these days. The foreign trade deficit is a major problem for our country. It is evident that there has been a problem with rapid liberalisation, and, of course, at the time of harmonisation of relations with Montenegro, there has been a complete opening of our market, without protection. Serbia has imported apples, stale fertilizer, Serbia imports or is preparing to import 65,000 tonnes of meat during the previous government. Many in Serbia have agencies and directors. There is a huge public debt in Serbia. We'll be there in a few years, in a debt crisis. I hope that we will no longer finance from the budget various NGOs such as the Resistance, I don't know if Natasa Kandic or these others are funded, but maybe we should look into all the papers. Furthermore, this year's money may be meant for the roads less, but please understand, funds have been destroyed to build these roads by an explosion in Surcin. Therefore, there may be fewer spending this year, but without construction, on the one hand you are right, without major works in the area of rail, roads, housing, energy system, no production in Serbia. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro -- whether Montenegro fulfils its 8% obligations or Serbia pays everything, I demand an answer to that question. Of course, I ask the government to come to the agenda very quickly for the final budget for 2003, as well as the final account for 2002, because it was not adopted in this assembly. Let me just say this one more thing, you know that against many ministers and assistant ministers from previous governments, the socialists, you file criminal charges, and the argument was that there was accidental spending of funds, abuse of official office, and it's about redistributing funds from one item to another. At that time, you filed criminal charges against our people, and when you were sure you were falling from power, you changed the Budget System Act, and now it's no longer a crime. The same act, two years ago, you sent people to prison, and now someone might only be liable for a misdemeanor. Is that an accident? It is also well known that the previous government has exceeded agreed public spending with the IMF, therefore, do not accuse each other of it because it is not the most important thing in our country. We expect it to be a growth of social product, as planned, to produce real growth and that means, of course, that citizens of Serbia can expect a better standard of living, but also that the state is making more stable revenues. Finally, it is necessary for Serbia to get the budget as soon as possible, so that the military, the MUP and the BIA can count on being able to work after 1 April in case the budget is not adopted. To this end, the SPS, despite certain remarks and proposals, will vote in favour of this draft budget and the accompanying laws, with the expectation that this year will clearly show what the government is making a turn and discontinuity with the previous government of Zoran Zivkovic. We expect that the new budget will be a budget that will look at new policies, economic, social and every other one, the new government of Serbia. If everything is the same as it was, then I'm sure they won't talk like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1304	Before I give my word to anyone, a notice to the MPs who are members of the Finance Committee: the eighth session of the Finance Committee was convened, starting at 17.15 p.m. on the fourth floor. Mr. Vlahovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1305	It is a great pleasure for me to sit in the parliamentary benches and listen to the story of the previous government I participated in. I would also like to ask the Madam Chairman to warn the MPs that today's topic is not a debate on the trust of the previous government, but on the 2004 budget. I know that many in Parliament and outside this House will have good memories of the previous government and I know that it has left a lot of clues because of its courage to face the key reform procedures that were necessary for our country. Once again, we paid the price of courage in the December elections. The 1990 development budgets are mentioned. I hope that the development strategy that has been implemented during the 1990s has not been incorporated into the long-term economic policy of this government, regardless of what MPs from the parliamentary group, who are talking about the development strategy of the 1990s, are supporting the new government. In the end, the development strategy had a level of social gross product less than 40% in the early 1990s, an army of unemployed who were produced because of one wrong policy. Among other things, this is the reason why the Democratic Party will never participate in a government where those who have led economic policy and each other in the 1990s will not seek support for a government in which the Democratic Party would be. It is mentioned here that the previous draft budget envisioned 20 billion dinars of privatisation revenue. Gentlemen, I repeat: it is true that 20 billion privatisation revenues were foreseen, but in those 20 billion revenues were contained in 11.7 billion revenues made in 2003, which is shown in this budget in a special item for the coverage of the budget deficit. So total revenues were less than 9 billion dinars. How do you spend your money on privatisation? I think that after a long parliamentary standing, every MP should know that this is reflected by the Budget Law, which we adopt every year. As other budget revenues are spent, which are collected from taxes, and different categories of taxes from the economy and the population, the same way privatisation revenues are used to cover the budget deficit and other needs. And there hasn't been an army of unemployables in the last three years. Thousands of people. That's just not true. It is true that in 2001 it was official, statistically, that 750,000 people were unemployed and another 250,000 were on the so-called. Forced, temporary vacations, which is the category of no economy, no country in the world knows. Today, there is no category and we have under 960,000 unemployed. My dear gentlemen, 50,000 unemployed less than we found in January of 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1306	The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Renewal Movement -- Nova Serbia, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1307	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's good when someone's an MP for the opposition, and then he's an MP for the post. Then you can see it from all sides. It's even better if someone's in the government, then he's an MP, or he's not an MP. I was fortunate to be an MP of the opposition, now I am an MP of office, and lucky to be in the government right before Mr. Vlahovic. So, I'm very modest when I talk about these things, especially about the ministry that Mr. Vlahovic led over the past three years. This has to do with the subject, because based on it all, this budget has been made. My position is such that I have to say, and I can say next. Mr. Vlahovicu, what are the results of your work in three and a half years, while you were minister? You said your previous government was brave, but you didn't say whether brave to destroy or brave to make. You said and you wondered where the ministers were here, and you forgot that you hadn't sat here in the last three and a half years, and the result of your work was the restructuring of the flag and the moment you got your beatings because of it; the result was the decline of production, which is obvious, and the excess of the worker who is obvious, the huge external trade deficit, the incredible affairs, the incredible theft, the horror of agriculture, the horror of everything. And, Mr. Vlahovic, if I were you, I really shouldn't go out after that for this pay phone and say what you said about the budget. That's what it's all about. After the year in which we had the drop in production, we now have one proposal that should allow production to grow in this year and in the coming years. So this budget should rejoice, give hope and surely commit, especially to the government, including all of us as MPs. So, first and foremost, obviously, this year we have an estimated increase in industrial production of 2%. Let me remind you that in the last year, in which they boast, we had a 3% decline in production. So, even after this year, we're not going to get to the level before the start of 2003. Those are, gentlemen, some of the facts. We will have, according to the draft budget, the growth of gross social product by 4.3%, and this is clearly given and well explained, how and how the budget deficit will be covered. All the time, both sides are talking about privatisation. It'll come on the agenda. But I, speaking of covering the budget deficit, reminds me of the fact that 400m euros in privatisation revenue has been spent in public spending over the last two months of the previous year. Those are some of the facts. This budget is a developmental one. We heard the minister, we read. The development consists of the following. Budget spending in favour of public investment will be worth 32.4 billion dinars, almost double the funds spent last year for the same purpose. In fact, 17.2 billion dinars were spent last year. Three things are developmental and very well explained: an economy with growth, with an incentive of 11.2 billion dinars, with subsidies, with incentives or incentives to export and, especially important, by means designed for the recovery of the dedicated industry. The other thing that is very important is traffic and investment of 16.9 billion dinars. And what may be the most important, and what we have all used in pre-election campaigns, is agriculture and a total of 22.3 billion dinars of growth, i.e. investment in recovery and work in agriculture, forestry and water economy. The fact is that this budget predicts the growth of agricultural production of 8% and the fact is that we all said in the election campaign that it was some percentage of 8-10% that mattered and that can ultimately make this country a real agrarian country and finally be where we had to be. A clean agrarian budget, which is very important, is financed by 18.8 billion dinars, which is exactly three times or almost three times larger than what we had last year, not to mention subsidies for milk production, industrial plants, various types of credit and everything we heard from the minister, and the incentive of exports, with a statement in the 600 million dinar budget. I'm taking the opportunity to mention these two billion funds in the budget that are allocated to buy out the wheat. You know why and you know what we've been through in the past year that we haven't acted like this. So that's what's shortest of promises we've made in agriculture, and we've heard from certain opposition MPs not to stick to pre-election promises. Another thing that is very important to say: funding for Hilandar is projected at 1.3m euros. This is really important and important to say. So I repeat that this budget rejoices, gives hope and surely binds us, especially the people of the government. I take advantage of the opportunity to say something that is not good in the proposal for a law on the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax. I'm going to believe that Kragujevac will get these 47 million, promised from this pay phone, but I have to say some things don't add up here. Belgrade has a 50% increase this year compared to the previous 50%, Novi Sad of 15%, Nis a 10% decrease, Kragujevac a 55% reduction. These are the facts, these are the numbers, this is the simple math, and I'd like this to be fixed. This is very important, these are huge revenues for such a poor town as Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1308	Replica, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1309	The previous MP specifically mentioned my name and, on that basis, I am looking for a replica. First of all, I want to say that it's very difficult to get along, even on a parliamentary level, with arguments about what horror, disaster, without describing what horror, disaster, and what else it really means. It's very difficult for me to compromise and give an answer if these are the key arguments of the predecessors for this speaker. It's not terrible and it's not a disaster to tell the truth, the way it is, no matter how painful she is, because we're in transition. This country and the economy, if it really wants to be self-sustainable in the long term, must accept basic market postulates. They are not like what was served from this assembly ten days ago (and really in advance thanks to budget promoters for not putting it into the budget), such as -- let the state invests in a new vehicle so that giants don't get on their feet. It is purely political demagogy, and the courage is to go down and say, after ten years of suing, that 15,000 workers have no place, because these jobs have lost during the 1990s, thanks to the "wise" state, economic and any other policy in which some other parties sitting in this parliament, and again in the government, have participated at one point. So it's neither horror nor disaster, but it's a way to raise a giant, not from the knees, but from the mud. I'll remind you, in 2001, 30,000 workers in the flag were sitting without a job. I'll remind you that in the past and last year's Zastava, despite great efforts, perhaps even greater than necessary, the state's engagement has achieved the level of production and has achieved the employment it had in 1992. I'll remind you that all the flag societies, including the flag-purpose, are now working without any support from the state profitablely, without subsidies, which until three years ago was unimaginable. Those are the real results. If you want to pour political demagogues on this speaker, then tomorrow you'll have political responsibility for such moves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1310	On what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1311	These are insulting words, after all. If someone says someone who's worked directly in production for more than 20 years is a layman, it's an insult. The word horror translated directly means horror, because you allowed the trade lobby to win by coming into the ministry and importing almost complete fertilizer, not to launch production, for which all conditions were created, it's a horror. It's a terrible thing for you to say words that are false to this speaker. It's not true that the state is asked for a dollar, except guarantees. It's true that you need to read what's written or what's written and you need to understand it. So that's terrible. It's terrible to wave cards, nonexistent. It's a terrible thing to steal voices. It's a terrible thing to bring the economy to these branches. That's terrible. Who knows how long it would take to explain all the horrors and the terrible things you've been doing. So that's terrible. (President: I warn you to respect the same member you call upon, please. ) Mr. Vlahovic avoided talking to people who understand themselves in the production during the restructuring of the flag. Why did he avoid it? It's terrible and it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1312	Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1313	Replication to previous exposure. Since the previous speaker called for article 100. Rules of Procedure, the basis is a replica of previous exposure. First of all, I want to say that I'm still staying in that previous position, that this is a good place to spread empty political demagogy, which I don't want to advise, because that's the level of political responsibility that we all present here. If that were the case, the previous MP could also ask who made the decisions on customs-free imports of artificial fertilizer, who made decisions on imports of second-hand cars in 2000, 2001, who made those decisions, and he would see that it had nothing to do with the Republic government, and especially not with the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. After all, you had a chance to look at that law, and that's why you don't have to accuse us. I'm absolutely for a liberal economic concept, because that's how we're going to make one of the three economies even more competitive, and as far as the results go, they're behind us. When you look at the level of industrial production, and the level of industrial production in the private sector, which is statistically not covered by the imperfect statistical system, you will see that the new value was increased by 50% in 2002 and that this trend continues in 2003. Let me remind you that more than 20% of total industrial production is now in the so-called the private industrial sector. I will also remind you that in 2003, when the prime minister of our country was killed, we were leaders in the Balkans in terms of foreign direct investment, which is the level of trust that the international community, investment, investors give to one government and one country. These are the results that speak of us. We'll get a chance to see the results of the new government. Why not, what is well to be commended, not at all cost to be criticized. That's why I think the new government deserves to get time to be able to assess her work behind it. But today we have a budget on the agenda. I remind you once again, we are not on the agenda of the previous government in the last and last year, and the budget seems to be the only instrument. That level of budget deficit... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And the ratio of consumption and investment, it seems to me, is the only instrument that we can create economic policy in our country tomorrow. And everything we're saying from the DS parliamentary group isn't calculated to be an opposition at all costs, but to warn of the shortcomings... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... budgets to make this country better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1314	I call upon all Members of the People to respect Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to which everyone is called. The People's MP Goran Knezevic has the word, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1315	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must first of all express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the material for this session was not obtained until Monday. As far as I know, the government sat down on Thursday and came up with proposals from these laws. I expected the material to be distributed to us by the MPs much earlier, so that we could prepare and be able to participate constructively in the discussion. The 2004 budget is unrealistically planned. Each budget should come from two basic principles. The first principle is the balance or balance of public income and public expenditure, which is also a legal obligation, and the second principle is reality. In the case of the 2004 draft budget, this first principle is respected, but therefore the second one is completely bypassed. In fact, it was logical to start from real income and then to determine and spend the current year. This situation is completely different. The wishes of individual ministries of coronal and other obligations have been made and the revenue presented in this budget has been reflected, which is the 330 billion dinars. How else do you explain the increase in revenue by more than 20% compared to last year or how do you explain the tax revenues of nearly 330 billion dinars compared to 70 billion that you said were achieved in the first quarter of this year? How do you get to that amount realistically, in terms of optimistic increases in the gross social product of 4.5% and inflation of 8-9.5%, how did you predict? In your 2004 budget proposal, you propose to reduce tax burdens on earnings, financial transactions and use and use of goods. On the other hand, however, you are burdening the people and the citizens and the economy, so that the effect for the population, and especially for the budget, is practically nothing. On the other hand, you also advocate the expansion of the tax base. Of course you're wrong about that. It's supposed to work that way, but you're doing it by delaying the introduction of a tax on extra value and a deadline for the introduction of fiscal cash registers. So we will be in a situation where the task should be carried out by the financial police, and any number and any trained financial police will not be able to force those revenues into the state register. This unrealized budget revenue cannot be realised. There will be a huge budget deficit, and this budget deficit will not be covered by these sources that you have foreseen here, from privatisation that is unrealistically high and from net domestic financing, especially from that part that is intended to buy the vault records from citizens and business banks, which will further lead to the detimulation of investment. But in my opinion, the most important issue you haven't solved by the 2004 draft budget is the status and place of local self-government in this bill. In a pre-election campaign, everyone advocated decentralisation and local self-government. However, it was all done not to be so. I have to be a little malignant, but this looks like a political move that aims to weaken local self-government ahead of the upcoming local elections. The reduced inflow of funds is likely to lead to a chain reaction to the borrowing of local self-government, which will lead to income and expenditure balancing in the coming period. However, further complications will arise in achieving the budget for the entire community. According to your bill, the tax on the fund is abolished at 3.5% and this is trying to replace the increase in the profit tax of up to 30% compared to 5%, as has been the case so far. You also talked about the bill, how local self-government wasn't damaged by it, but from our conversations with our colleagues here, we came to the conclusion that local self-government was damaged by 5% to 10% of its income. Furthermore, according to the previous Tax Act on the Fund, up to one third of these funds were provided for solidarity of housing. It had a double effect on that population layer that had no means of buying apartments, and on the other hand, it had an effect that they were injected into local self-government new funds; in the construction industry about 45 million dinars, I am specifically talking about the Zrenjanin municipality. Under the draft budget law, it stagnates or reduces the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax. If it is known that in the last year local self-government has taken on new obligations, these are some areas of childcare and some cultural programmes, this year, by increasing profits in the field of education, we come to the situation that the part that is intended to cover school costs and the local self-government will be increased compared to such increased salaries. Therefore, it would be good to consider a proposal to increase the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax linearly by 10% and to make the funds above the limits provided by the law in full amount, 100%, to the bills of local self-government. Otherwise, we're going to be in a situation where there's going to be an end to the investment programs that happen at the level of local self-government. We do not have other funds, unfortunately for funding and investment, so local self-government will be forced to increase the prices of municipal services, and it is known that the price increase of these utility services will also affect the standards of our citizens' budgets. So I urge you to accept at least some of these proposals, in the common interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1316	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1317	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, I will strictly stick to what's on the agenda today. In a position that regulates the construction of a water system in Serbia, and within the Water Directorate, there are only three interesting items for me, which are: the start of the construction of the Prvonek dam and the completion of the Selovo dam and one more, I think it's Barje. There is one conclusion from the last session of the Agriculture Committee -- that it is not possible to start construction of new hydrosystems in Serbia without ending the existing one. I am the People's MP from Chačka - Moravia County. The Rzav regional water system has invested $150m over the past 15 years in the most light case of this country that has been shaking water fever for the past few years. Citizens of Cačka and the municipalities of Gornji Milanovac, Luciani, Arlje and Požega, except for 35m dollars invested in this system by the state of Serbia, everything else was financed by self-delivery and by the budget of local self-government. Since 1999, since the arrival of DOS to the government, this country has not invested a single dinar in this system. I know it's not possible at this point, when the budget is adopted in these conditions, and it would be normal if we passed it by law in December, if we could prepare it longer and talk about it, but I still want to say a few things for the people who voted for me, and also for the others that I represent. In fact, I would say briefly that in 1953, according to the idea project of Academyman Miladin Pećinara, the waters of the Uvec are being pumped over the Rzava trough into the coast of Morava and Danube (i.e. 16 cubic metres per second); that the construction of the water system Rzav is one of the phases of this project and that today 350,000 inhabitants of these municipalities drink the highest quality water in Serbia, and that only the first phase of this project with 1,200 seconds of liters has been achieved, although an optimal capacity of 2,400 liters per second has been designed. To understand what I'm talking about, Makish, i.e. The Belgrade water supply gives 12,000 liters of water per second. The regional water system Rzav is only ten times, by capacity, technologically lower than Makish, and gives multiple quality drinking water. We need to agree whether we can and to what extent - Mr Vice President I address you as a representative of the Government, I welcome you - that in the time that comes we agree that this system will receive in Serbia the place it deserves, that the citizens of these five municipalities that have been deployed in the two districts help to solve one of the most important problems, one of the most valuable issues in municipal functioning, and that, as previously predicted, the Watercraft of Serbia, or the Water and these municipalities, are relatively involved in the profile of Svrtkova, as the location is precisely called, builds a lasting waterway and thus provides these five municipalities over the next 35 years. This is what I say today when we adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, when the government's mandate begins. We have an obligation to all these people and all those previous years, who have not sat down, I apologize, but I must say, as some other people besides the great rivers and great springs do not today have quality drinking water, where the honorable exception of the Kruševac municipality cell system and the municipalities they are gravitating to them, and others are mostly struggling or expected to solve their problem 100%. The water on the Rzav system is treated with ozone and fluorine. The only such water factory there exists today in Serbia. There are MPs here from all the political parties, who come from all the municipalities, and I ask for their support. Please, Mr. Vice President, as soon as possible, we all go to the Ariled water factory together, and together with the representatives of local self-government and the ministries in charge, here is agriculture, energy, too, we try to look at this investment in the long run and at least start something when this dam is at stake. Yesterday was the world day of water, we owe it to all the people who spent 15 years giving out funds to build the Rzav water system to mention and round them here, that it is possible to complete this precious investment in the coming period. I'm sorry there's not a single dinar in the budget for the Rzav regional water system. These others who are listed, such as Selova, began before Rzava and were not finished. Once again, for fellow MPs to know what I'm talking about, it's a huge project that the state has invested $35m so far, and the rest of the funds (about $120m) have been invested by citizens from these five municipalities, from the economy and from local self-government. I thank you for the opportunity to say this, I ask for your support, on behalf of all these people, for a valuable project Serbia deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1318	According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I demand that, in accordance with Article 82(6), a quorum check be carried out in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1320	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. After we've established the quorum, we'll continue to work. The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, followed by MP Velimir Simonovic. (Velimir Simonovic, from the post: I give up. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1321	President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, welcome, I am pleased to see you in our home, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, first of all, to express my discontent with the tone of discussion in the past hour. Namely, what I have said several times over the last month, it is that we from the Democratic Party's parliamentary club – Boris Tadic never intend to suggest anything that we ourselves do not think is good and that we ourselves would not do it if we were able to do it. So, we use our right to do our duty, as MPs, to discuss what is the point of the agenda. Please, in that context, you're watching our discussions. It is not right if, for every item of the agenda, the argument of the ruling majority is the work of the previous government. The previous government worked and placed its account in elections that were more than four months ago. It is nice to remind ourselves that in these DS elections, as a pillar of the government, it has received more votes than three of the four parties representing Serbia's ruling coalition. Now it's your turn to work. (President: Theme, Mr. Markovic, do not talk about the past government. It's your turn to take care of what you've done, how you've done, and it's perfectly normal, and that's why we live in democracy, so we've fought in the end. So, we will make our views on the budget, as the most important law proposed here, with all due respect to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister, although Mr. Minister did not show proper respect for our parliamentary group. We, Mr. Minister, have been waiting for you for more than two hours yesterday. We wanted to see you, to give some of our findings; in the end, in the conversation with you, to divorce some of our doubts, so that today we do not burden the National Assembly of Questions that we will certainly ask, which may be the fruit of our lack of information, given that the Budget Law is being adopted by an urgent procedure, and we as well as other MPs have not had time to get familiar with everything that is written. I will start with these general posts of the proposed budget and repeat what is the position of our parliamentary club. Personally, I believe that you, as finance minister, were well conditioned by the nature of the coalition you belong to in the draft budget. It is natural, and the previous finance minister and besides any government that is coalitiond by some of its ideas, some of its programming principles must adapt to a political moment reflected through the coalition it belongs to. As for this budget, as well as my colleagues, I believe that the revenue of 329 billion 325 million 866 thousand dinars is unreal. In the first three months, only 68 billion were achieved, and whether or not it's counted times four, and I know it doesn't count just times four, I really don't think it's possible to reach a 329 billion figure in the previous three quarters. I wonder if this figure will be sought through an increase in excise income, or specifically through an increase in excise duty on oil derivatives? So my question is if there's going to be a gas collection; one dinar per litre is about one billion in the budget, if I'm not mistaken; I'd like to get an answer to that question. In that sense, I am concerned about it, not as a citizen, a natural person, who drives a car, but because we know that the extraction of gasoline leads to the collection of everything that is related to it, therefore, the transport of goods, services, service activities in transport. I noticed that Ms. Chairman was very zealous to remind me when I wanted to point out that we have not stuck to the subject so far, and now I would ask her to help me so much that she would warn the MPs to refrain from throwing and commenting, because we can't talk like that. (Chairman: Please listen to each other.) That's my first question. The second question is a deficit, which I consider to be extremely large. I think it's at least twice as big as what's realistically possible to cover. You further stated that funds from certain sources will be provided to cover the deficit, from privatisation of as much as 16 billion 414 million 752 000 dinars. I don't know what you've started this ambitious privatisation on, or you'd have to tell us what's going to be privatized over the next year, and that's going to provide such a high income. Even those of us who could do privatisation in the previous three years, or the government that we supported since 2003, have been projections of only 12 billion and 500 million dinars, and here you -- in the climate that is far worse and which is the result of numerous factors, which is not up to you or us, such an environment, is such an escalation in southern Serbia, were problems in the election campaign when a review of privatisation was announced -- you expect that privatisation will be so high and that the revenues will be 16 billion. So that's my second question. I think it's real up to 10 billion, maybe that's pretty ambitious, but we'll see about that. Donations -- worth three billion 700 million -- that's normal and realistic. It's sad that in 2003 we calculated that we would have donations of 14 billion and 900 million, and that's for all of us as a country, some information that speaks of our international position, some of our obligations that we must or don't have to meet, so today we came to what I think is real -- three billion and 700 million dinars. You intend to be in debt through the loan of international financial institutions of nine billion and 500 million dinars. I have to tell you that the government that fell was planning less responsibility than this. She planned a debt of eight billion and 300 million dinars, and that's important to know, because we're mainly accused of borrowing the country, etc., and today we're in a situation where there's a number of nine billion and 500 million dinars here. It would be awfully good to do that. I'd look forward to it, because I don't think it's a bad borrowing, but if it's going to work terribly depends on the completion of your negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and I wish you success here because it's important for our country and for all of us. Under point 4) is a net domestic funding of 15 billion 700 million dinars, our government planned it to be only six billion 500 million dinars, unless you think you're spending what's left behind our government, which can be discussed whether it's much or little, but it's certainly more than what's left of the previous government. Simply, and what little I have learned from the economy, and perhaps not so little, I think in the way that you predicted to withdraw it, even as a sponge, free money from the market, which might be used in some development programs. These are some common places and now we're moving on to the part that I just didn't get a chance to ask you about, because we didn't have a conversation with you as a Parliament club and we couldn't point to some of our dilemmas. We're going to the federal state, something of me as a lawyer, a lawyer and a political person interested, it's the Serbia-Montenegro court. Why do I want to talk about it? Because Serbia-Montenegro's court envisions 7.5m dinars. On the case, I took part in some talks, assisted some senior colleagues when it came to the need for Serbia-Montenegro's court to function, and then the proposal for a budget drawn up by the government, which, meanwhile, fell, was to make it 15 million dinars. Seven and a half million is twice as much; I haven't had a chance to ask you, and now I'm asking you if it's due to some real parameters, and I haven't found it in the text, or that's the consequence, don't God, your party's political attitude towards the federal state, which, right now, I doubt it, but it would be good to say. Then, our government had a certain media communication service, that service wasn't very popular, you changed her name, and now this service is called the Office of Media Cooperation. I don't think there's any problem in general that you have an office to co-operate with the media, but, simply, while it was the Bureau, 25% was cheaper than your office, so it's something that tells me more about how in the election campaign we can make some promises and we can talk about something, and we're going to get into a situation that we have the same thing tomorrow, because it's obviously the same thing, it's even 25% more expensive, so it's worth 20 million to you, and it was 16 million to us, I'm just talking about the budget. I have a few more questions and one more remark, especially you, Deputy Prime Minister, we've been asking for twice as much time for discussion. While we were the ruling coalition, almost all ministers were present during the budget talks, and it was mostly twice the time for discussion. We didn't get it, and now I'm skipping the parts of my discussion so my colleagues can say something. I have to skip a lot, and I'm only going to go to what we call agrarian budget, or the Ministry of Agriculture. Here's the thing, I fully welcome the intensity of investing more in agriculture. You're talking about execution, and when we compare execution to what's now being designed, it may be three times, but we can't compare things that are incomparable. We'll see what your execution will be, and we'll compare two executions, and now we need to compare two budgets. And you yourself in the text section do well to state that the largest and most important part of the agro-budget funds are precisely premiums. The premiums are also an instrument for policy-making in agriculture and in this sense you have certain programming goals that are quite ambitiously set, it is seen in this text section and all that is fine, but I don't think you have the money for it. Now I'm going to explain to you why I mean it. For these purposes, you predicted five billion and 912 million dinars. You only put this under one item - milk subsidies and industrial herbs. I took the budget from last year where it was beautifully divided by the items, which I think you should have done, to see exactly how much it was for industrial plants and how much it would be for soy, for something else you mentioned here. Anyway, when I summed it up, I came up with five billion and 410. So your number is only 10%, at that crucial point in the development of agriculture, greater than the figure of the previous budget. Why won't this number survive either, you'll have a problem with this, I'll explain it further, and by referring to your text part in this chapter that applies to agriculture, just a second, please. Basically here, this is what it is, so you think first that you will stabilise the production of milk, the milk market, etc. You mention that the purchase price of milk has not been increased for two years, and that is true, but the price of processed milk on the market has jumped about 15%. There's some pressure from a manufacturer who'll probably push your government to increase the price of milk. So far, the supply of milk is very stable and we have no problems in Serbia, everyone knows that in terms of milk production and supply. We have another problem and you should solve it, because the previous government tried and I believe that the Minister of Agriculture is going to do something - it's about how we're going to move the milk. So far, we've had 4-5 dinars of milk, depending on whether it's hilly or plain. If you want to encourage the development of this part of agriculture, you'd have to change it in a way that predominates a similar class, that's how we motivate the production of extra class milk, yes, and then goes first, so standard, etc. I hope you do, and it's very important. You further said that you expect an increase in the area under the sugar tail by 6,000 hectares (meaning, from some 64,000 to 70,000 hectares) and an increase in production to 38 tonnes per hectare. In 2003, there were 27 tons per hectare and it would be good to, uh, break up fast, 38. Now 7,500 dinars have been paid because no quality has been achieved. Now the price of the premium will be about 15 dinars, or 14 or 15 dinars, can't be different, and when you multiply it by 70,000 hectares, if there are only a little better weather conditions, and there it is, but now you have to give a billion and 50 million dinars in position. So that's what I've really calculated, and I'd like you to do the math. I think you're going to have a problem with this position, especially what you want and areas under soybeans to increase and bridge tobacco, etc., so I don't think this agrarian budget provides what's most important, which is that it solves the problem of lack of crafts, outdated and amortised machinery. And when we talk about land, our key problem is irrigation, because $2,500 a hectare is a irrigation system, and these are terrible figures, I think the state as a state will have to intervene there. So, I don't have time, it's a lot, I've been working all night on this, but I don't want to take my colleagues' time, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1322	As MP Velimir Simonovic gave up the discussion, the People's MP Gordana Comic has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1323	Ladies and gentlemen, in a country where the political system is changing and the institutions are building, and in public affairs, the finance minister The draft budget law begins with words on an agreed agreement with the IMF and on the reform characteristics of the budget. This draft budget law is lagging behind. The correct conduct of the finance minister towards the MPs of the National Assembly is also lacking, but this goes to what we say in Vojvodina - deran or knows order or does not know order, and there is no help. Why... Why do we claim that if the draft budget law does not begin with such a position, then we have a great right to be concerned about the control of public finances, the overall ratio of public income and expenditure in the country, to criticise this budget and to argue that it is not good at all cost to insist on being different from the draft budget that was in this country between 2001 and 2003, just to talk in marketing parts about something that does not exist in the budget. Since there is no agreement with the IMF, I will remind you that it would be good to have that agreement, then in 100 days in this same assembly we will have a rebalancing of this budget and, reading the stenograms of MPs of the Democratic Party group, we will remind ourselves that we have spoken the truth, and it is unpleasant, because the budget is pre-election, the budget is not developmental. Because the budget makes the salary rise beyond the possibilities, and when the wages rise beyond the possibilities, then the demand rises not covered by the goods and the trade deficit grows. That's what all those in the government know and know how it ends. If there is no agreement with the IMF, if there is no protocol on the approved budget deficit, then it ends up with the minister of finance and the government of the Republic of Serbia going to the National Bank, which is in charge, and ending with the idea of controlled inflation. We've already seen what it looks like, and it wouldn't be good to look at it once again in any of the only characteristics of this kind of public finances. If inflation is envisaged and inflation is spoken of from 7.5% to 8%, and if there is a statement by the finance minister of 9.8%, it would be good to respond to citizens and citizens of Serbia how much inflation can they really project for 2004? It is clear that budget revenue is overrated, that public revenues are overrated and that it is an unrealistic coverage of the budget deficit. That is why an agreement with the International Monetary Fund is necessary, no matter what you individually think of this most powerful financial organization. It was heard in the towers of the Assembly -- so we don't have to do with the IMF, we can do with Russia, and with other countries. And Russia has to go with the IMF. It would be worst if when the budget, which the ruling majority will adopt, is on the agenda, we were talking about EuroAxis Bank and similar banks, which we have the opportunity to listen to these days. No VAT, no fiscal registers, no excise increases. This means that the increase in excise duties burdens the economy and the population. If, according to the proposal, excise duties are increased by a dinar, two, three and four, it will increase directly through the inevitable link and prices of other types of goods and all this means that there is no fiscal reform. What the marketing statements on capital investment do not stand, on the agrarian budget - does not stand, and therefore it is very important to hear a critical word about the budget, because there is time for certain things to be corrected and that instead of demagogy and stories about general budget posts, there are really tons of reforms in the budget. This is no good at all. So, just advertising the position methodologically, for people who don't know how to make a budget is probably skillfully, for those of us who have dealt with it, completely ignorant. In two minutes, a comment on the law on the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004. In this law in the municipality list, Article 3 lists the city of Pristina and all municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija. In the criteria there is neither the city of Pristina, any municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija and the question remains why have they been introduced into this law on the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax? How will the amount of sales tax be collected from the territory of the city of Pristina, or from any municipality that stands in this law, especially because it is not in the criteria? If this is marketing, it's even worse than we thought. If not, then the proposer owes the National Assembly an answer to the question of how will he control the collection of public revenues from municipalities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and how will the control of public revenues restore those finances to the same municipalities? We regret to say that we do not have a reform budget and that we do not have a team with the courage to do what must be done in 2004. This is a reduction in public spending and restructuring of public enterprises, with all the painful consequences that these two decisions entail in the short term, but with all the good consequences that these two decisions in the spirit of the budget mean in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1324	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Gašo Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1325	Madam Chairman, Mr. Labus, Mr. Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present a few more views of the Socialist Party of Serbia on the draft budget bill for 2004. Much has already been said in the presentations of my colleagues and other MPs who participated in this debate. However, to start from what I think is not good in the budget, that later, as a real man, I would come up with those positions in the budget that I think are significantly better than they were in the last three years in all the budgets we discussed, and also in the last draft budget, which Mr Djelic submitted in November last year to the National Assembly. Of course, it is not in line with our expectations, nor is it good for the budget, nor for the citizens of Serbia, to have a budget deficit again, this time of 45 billion, but it seems to be an necessity that is present in the financing of the Republic of Serbia and it is quite certain that for some time, perhaps for several years, that budget deficit position will be present. Of course, it is also important that the legislator saw that budget deficit covered. Unlike those who are pessimistic in this regard, I think this government has the capacity to get out of this problem called 45 billion dinars of the budget deficit. For the sake of truth, the budget deficit is slightly higher than it was in the government's proposal in November, for about three billion dinars, but as a reflection, there is also a fact that the budget projected a total of around 419 billion dinars of expenditure in total public spending, and the previous budget proposal meant 12 billion lower expenditures. This means, with three billion dinars of the larger budget deficit, essentially, the proposer managed to cover 12 billion more expenditures by transposing certain expenditures in the budget. So that's one moment. The second moment that concerns me is the fact that at this point, the promoter is unable to say what the fate of the negotiations with the London Club is, in order to define the overall position of the Republic of Serbia in terms of sovereign, or public debt. I am sure that there will be problems, as may be expected, problems in that part of the negotiations concerning the Paris Club and further reduction of that 15% debt. Despite these facts that are present as objectively difficult circumstances for a realistic view of consumption in 2004, I inevitably impose on me a few things that I think are good and that are much better than in previous budgets. For example, the fact that this government will channel significant funds to agriculture through the agrarian budget. So, as a big plus to this government, I'm putting in an agrarian budget of 21 billion dinars, to the greatest extent to fund the launch of agricultural production and its rise in relation to the situation that we now have. Eight percent of agricultural production growth in 2004, the truth is, unfortunately, it will only lead us to the level of agricultural production at 2002 level, but I am almost convinced that with such agrarian budget we will never again experience that the Minister of Agriculture as at the end of 2002 invites peasants publicly not to sow wheat. After that, we have a catastrophic year 2003 after the effects of drought, and we have the fact that Serbia does not have enough wheat to feed the population, so the separation based on the purchase of that wheat for the republican commodity reserves, precisely from this budget, is about two billion dinars. Agriculture is Serbia's comparative chance. That's why I'm giving my confession to the motionor for this story. If for nothing else, that's all I'd support this budget for. Also, I notice one major change, which concerns the possibility of launching business activities. It is not necessary to interfere with the fact that in the last three years we have had a catastrophic external trade balance, $11.5 billion, because economic production for exports has not been stimulated by anything. This time, colleagues, I point out that this government has proposed one billion dinars to boost exports, plus 600 million dinars in agriculture, also for export production. Of course, that's not enough, but it is the first good step to come to our senses and try to try to reduce that foreign trade deficit from the current maybe five billion dollars on an annual basis to two or two and a half billion, as I heard Mr. Labus promised at a meeting with Serbian businessmen. It is also important to note that this government will single out one billion dinars for so-called. Lising business insurance fund. In the last term, we have brought this Lising Act, and it is one of the opportunities for the economy to improve by providing adequate equipment through the lising. This was precisely the lack of a previous foreign trade policy that allowed everything to be imported into this country, but over 46% of imports were based on wide-use goods. Also, we have another incentive, which concerns the insurance of the agricultural loan of about 500 million. All of this gives me, in my opinion, a framework that will allow the economy to grow at this planned rate of 2% in industry, 8% in agriculture, 4% in construction, which I think, in addition to this story of roads, should go in this direction to develop housing as such, because it objectively employs a lot more activity than a travel economy, which also employs a lot of business branches and enables the employment of a large number of people. Taking care to save time for my colleagues who are next to me, it is also important to say that 32 billion dinars for public investment are currently being planned. As many pessimists talk about that it is not enough to get out of recession in one cycle of prosperity, I think it is a good step and that 32 billion can serve as an incentive, and especially the part relating to agriculture, amounting to 3,700,000, for the production of agricultural machinery and the restoration of the park of rural households. Therefore, I will propose to accept this budget, by asking the Proposer, although he has provided for our situation of congestion in the name of sport, or physical culture, 631 million (and this is more than Mr Djelic suggested in November for about 31 million), to bear in mind that this is an Olympic year, and that perhaps, if necessary, our athletes are doing better to prepare for the Olympics from the funds of the current reserve or from some other reserves, possibly help. To prepare as best as possible and to represent our sport and our country as dignifiedly and successfully as they have done for many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1326	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1327	Dear fellow Members of the People, given the reasons for the urgent consideration of this draft budget law and these laws, I would ask you to make an additional effort and to declare the extension of this session until further notice, until we have completed the full debate. I know it's hard, I know you're all tired and you have other obligations, but the reasons why they've been proposed by the emergency procedure of this budget law and other laws require us to make this extra effort and to extend this session as much as necessary. I appeal to you and to the President of the Assembly. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1328	We have a proposal from the representative of the DSS parliamentary group on the extension of work. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 118, it did not vote nine, a total of 127 MPs. I find that most votes have accepted a proposal for an extension of work. We're continuing our work. The word of the messenger of the people is Gaso the Prince, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1329	Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of my colleagues, I have long understood and learned that the arrivals are enemies of the nouns. I avoid labeling any personality, appearance or anything like that. However, this time the first label was used by the finance minister calling this budget a developmental one. This has caused a reaction from opponents who, unlike him, have called this budget social, demagogue, pre-election and so forth. In doing so, I don't think any speaker has used the term "socially" in a persuasive sense. We all understand the place and the moment in which the state is located and we realize that a social component is necessary in its management, including the social component given by the Government. What I can do is, at a modest level of my economic knowledge, but on the other hand, based on my experience in management, I try to assess to what extent this budget is developmental, and to what extent it's social and perhaps pre-election, demagogue, whatever you want. The story of the development budget and its implementation taught me in Leskovac three years ago when a teacher asked me if you had money for reform, and it seems that Mrs. Colic, my successor, who said in one of her first statements that she was the minister of capital investment, and not Mr. Velja Ilic, wanted to say that education is very important in this country. I agree with her. I can't disagree, and because I'm her legal predecessor and because these things don't get forgotten. Let's see to what extent this budget is from the point of view of education. There is no point of "enlightenment" in any budget. So it didn't exist at the time of the previous government, or in the budget that the current finance ministry has made. The development money is on other budget items, and I know well what budget items are, because that is the only way development can be financed. If you look at these budget items, some of them you'll see insufficient funds, and at some relatively satisfying level, but with a very problematic structure, and that's the essence of what I want to talk about. In one item, I'm not going to name it, because it doesn't matter now, the budget has less than half the money, and more than half the money on the burden of the body's own income. It should not be very experienced and realize that the body simply cannot earn the amount provided for in that item of the budget. What's that sign? When drawing up the budget, the ministries were not consulted. Why? Because I don't see that any minister, nor the minister of enlightenment, would give up on a voluntary basis that suits his development. Or, and if it's been consulted, there was little time to get to know the costs and the structure of the budget. I think this move, by marking things like this, the Ministry of Finance actually transferred responsibility for the failure of development to the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education has already lost the moment to respond because it had to react before the budget was adopted in the proposal and given here. Because it's clear to us that there is or there will be a majority to vote on. So, education, my lords, is undeveloped, I guarantee it. The second question is whether she's social and what she is. Mr. Minister today, speaking specifically about education, mentioned two things: that all agreements with trade unions have been calculated in the budget and that investment maintenance in the local community. This second is a notorious fact. As for the first one, for three years I've been sitting with the unions with Mr. Djelic, for three years we've sharpened each other, we've achieved a very high level of trust. We taught them not to seek the impossible, they taught us to respect their demands. In three weeks as the new government is in office, someone from the union would certainly have informed me that they had some meeting to negotiate labour prices and coefficients for 2004. They didn't have that meeting. I don't know what kind of commitment Mr. Dinkic is talking about, because I know what we've taken over. Don't convince me. What is foreseen for wages is more than what is needed for the normal dynamics of salary growth in the last three years. So, what Mr. Djelic and I raised and of them also took educational measures. So, I think there's space here, but unfortunately, you can't switch to "development," that's what we know here. So development remains short-lived. Finally, one truly benevolent warning. Yes, maintenance and material costs fall on local self-government. In my ministry, there are data on 100 municipalities in Serbia's territory, about nearly two-thirds of municipalities, about which local budget really sets out for education. Mr. Dinkic, the data is tragic. Try to find the means to discipline the local community, of course, for education, but also for other sectors, or other activities. If I had to conclude, to give the court, and I set myself up at the beginning of that task, then I would say that the social measure in the budget is much more pronounced than the developmental one. And once again to correct the predecessor: the agrarian budget is increased and it is 16.4 and not 21 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1330	As the MP of the people, Sava Urosevic, gave up the discussion, the People's MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by the MP Arsen Kurjački. Since Arsen Kurjački also gave up the discussion, instead MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1331	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, since there are several other debaters from my parliamentary group, and there is no respect for the request for double time, I, unfortunately, will have to shorten my presentation too. I have to start by saying one thing, that Serbia is really a wonder country, and when someone realized it, it was absolutely right. Serbia is a country of wonders because Mr Dinkic became the minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia's government thanks to the support of the main heroes of his book "Economics of Destruction". So here we had a tirad of this minority support from that group. They talked about a terrible three years, and at the same time in the last decade, by 2000, the gross national product of $29 billion was reduced to only $10 billion, which was unrecorded in economic theory. But let's go back to the budget. The reality of the budget revenues shown -- I think the budget is unrealistic, it's overrated, 329.3 billion. Two months are completely lost in the formation of this government, whose formation, as I have already said about this speaker, I am convinced, will be its greatest result. We have a crisis in Kosovo, we have a bad investment climate, political instability, so there's nothing out of those 329 billion dinars. In such conditions the expected rate of growth of the gross national product of 4.5% is unrealistic. The level of expenditure is undervalued, 374.6 billion dinars. Let's just mention public enterprises, here it's said that for the railway, 8.8 billion dinars are foreseen, and they can barely survive with about 10 billion dinars. The budget deficit coverage is disputable because the projected sources for covering the deficits represent only a list of good wishes. Privatisation revenues -- projected 200m euros. We will be happy if 100m euros are achieved, unless it is included in the privatisation of telecommunications, Jugopetrol, etc. It is planned that 160m euros are being found in consumption rather than being preserved as a state reserve. The introduction of value added tax and fiscal cash registers, which would introduce the grey economy into the tax zone and increase revenues, is delayed. This is not the development budget, as has already been established many times, but it is still the social budget. Pre-election promises, also said, remain at the level of cheap demagogy, pulsism; the political platform of this budget is completely unclear; what a platform, such as the budget. The country's excessive interference with the economy -- the previous government has often accused it of being the Serbian economy's general director, and what is this one then. The privatisation revenues, I already said, are unrealistic and are directed towards consumption, not development, as promised in the election campaign. It does not deviate from the concept of privatisation, although the campaign discusses a review of privatisation, a deviation from this concept, etc. All promises of tax relaxation are unfulfilled. What about those objectives that every reform government should have, to become the most tax-friendly investment in the region, to restructure EPS, railways and other large public enterprises, to speed up privatisation? Tax on a fund of earnings that amounted to about 10 billion dinars is abolished. Just a few more words about local self-government. I'm the president of So Vorbas. When I came to the post of president of the SO, I found a derelict and inadequate system of functioning of local self-government, as well as the entire state. We had limited budget resources, unlimited needs. The first reactions to this budget, which I have heard from my colleagues, are – they want to cut our income to win elections, not thinking about citizens; that this is a political approach to public finances. I don't believe it. I don't want to believe it. We'll see. The income tax, which is said to account for around 20% of So Vrbas, where the project budget for 395 million from the tax on the fund is expected to be around 100 million dinars. According to the first accounts, we received yesterday, last night this draft budget, we're going to get about 20 million dinars less. You know that from the salary tax, which is 14%, so far 5% went to local self-government, 30% was proposed. If we're going to compare, let's say that Mr. Djelic's budget proposal proposed 40%. As far as the agrarian budget is concerned, it is mentioned here that it is a clean agricultural budget, and I also heard it today on the Agriculture Committee, about 18.8 billion dinars, and the wishes for this 18.8 budget to be achieved have been compared to 7.5. The budget budget budget can't even be compared, it's not desirable. We'll compare your projections and wishes to what you've accomplished at the end of the year. It's not meant to compare budgets like this. This budget is quite unbalanced, as the fruit of an improvised political platform of one such coalition, therefore quite unbalanced, and for DS MPs it is as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1332	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Labus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1333	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry this budget for the Democratic Party MPs is unacceptable. We didn't want this budget to get into a political debate, we wanted to be very real, to look ahead and see what we could do well for this country. The situation was as it is, the government was formed on March 3rd and by 31st it was necessary to reach the budget because until then there was temporary financing, i.e. the provisional budget. We had to come up with one draft, a draft budget before the Assembly to contribute to political and economic stabilisation. We had two options: to take the previous budget and propose it to the Assembly, or try to make something new. We didn't mind the previous budget, but the thing is, he was unsustainable. I don't want to criticize you, believe me, right now we need to understand each other very well and see what we're going to do, but I have to tell you that the monthly salary fund for the beneficiaries of the budget was 5 billion and 300 million, and in the last two months, 6 billion and 800 million. If you multiply that by 12 months, you get 79 billion dinars. We predicted 80. So when you get to one level of pay, you can't reduce it afterwards, no matter what government it is. It's some promises, some executions, you can't cut them, and the pay fund has gone up so fast. And if we hadn't changed anything in the budget, it would have been 79 billion. Because of the union deal, we've anticipated a small increase, maybe someone thinks that's enough, but it's safe to draw other expenditures, pensions and the rest. Next, we had to add 65 billion to the pension fund. When you look at it, the budget Mr Djelic has proposed could not be adopted because of the policy that has been conducted in the last two months. We didn't run that policy, and I don't want to criticize you, but it's a reality. What could we have done? Should we take it and cut everybody's salary? Maybe that's what you want? But that's impossible, when you get to one level of pay, you can't reduce them afterwards. We looked at what can be done, what can be done from pre-election promises to be fulfilled, and what requires a new economic policy, not because they are promises but because this country needs a new economic policy. We're sorry we didn't have time to write a budget memo. You know how this process goes - in April it starts, so in July, the first draft, in October, goes to the Assembly, and then it's adopted, and we've only had two weeks now. If we hadn't used you for two weeks, this country wouldn't have a budget, and that would have been a very bad situation for the whole country. So we had to try something to fight the recession. There aren't many measures you can come up with, the only question is how much money you have. The recession last year was 7% lower in agriculture, in industry 3% lower, which is 2.5% gross social product. Services grew, so they compensated. So we had to give something for agriculture and it's not about pre-election promises. Not in neighbouring countries last year was such a disaster as we did because of the drought, because they're more watering, they've got better seeds, better garbage, better plowing, better tractors. That's why we tried to give something, but that's not much either; 2.5 times more, but it's not enough. Still, something had to be given. The same situation is with industry, we've kept as much of these subsidies as we can, but they can't produce results if there's no restructuring. You're right about public enterprises, but don't let me remind you now, according to our agreements with the IMF last year, it took two large systems to be completed from the point of view of restructuring - EPS and railways. Is something done? It's not. Don't criticize us for the eight days we've done. Of course we haven't restructured these two companies, there's no god, whatever government is going to have to do it, but don't expect it to be done in two weeks. So some incentives had to be given and had to go to tax cuts. This isn't enough and it'll still be going from July 1st. What's the other way? Investments. Do we have enough, both domestic and foreign? No, I don't. We have 3 billion euros in straws, people don't want to put them in the banking system, you can't make them. One billion is in the banking system, and three billion are not. We can't count on that until the other side of the investment is increasing, on the other hand. I'm not criticizing you, it was such a political situation, it was a huge risk to investment. There is not much investment to be expected until the political situation is settled, and I think adoption of the budget is also a good step towards calming the political situation and reducing the risk of investment. As for the IMF, another important step is to reach an agreement with it, but again you are looking for something that has not been done long ago -- an agreement was to be reached in October, and the matter has worsened since October to this day. The IMF just came in and said: everything you messed up from October to March we want you to fix it in two or three months. So, with all our desire to do that, it's impossible in three months to correct what was messed up during the previous year. Another thing -- the deficit was not 43 billion, as Mr Djelic said, but another 8.5 billion up, which is 52 billion, or 4.6% of the social product. That's more than we've committed to the IMF. We said it was four to five tops. We're now trying to reduce that deficit and say it's going to be 3.6% of the social product. There's another 5 billion in reserves. Don't touch those reserves, because it may be a cut in deficits to 40 billion, which is 3.2%; don't touch for another reason -- we don't know what's going to happen in Kosovo tomorrow. We want to believe that everything will be settled and that everything will be fine, but we have to have some money for every possibility. So this government won't dramatically reduce the deficit, but it'll change the trend. We had a 1.6% social product deficit in 2001; 2002 - 3.6; 2003 - 4.6%. The scissors are spreading. That's not good. 4.6% is not dramatic. Compared to Hungary, that's less than Hungary has, but the problem is trending, the deficits are spreading. And of course, people are worried. We made a deal and I don't think there's gonna be a problem - we're continuing the talks, we've got three months left, the talks will be continued in April. I don't think it's gonna be a problem, but it's safe that if something has to change, we'll go to the Assembly. We're not hiding anything. I'm sorry, but Mr. Djelic was hiding that he had no agreement with the IMF. We're not going to hide, because it's important as a signal for investors, not just for those 700 million dollars, which, of course, is not small, what debt write-off will be when that agreement is over. It's important for investors we have to bring in. That's what we need to talk about. The second deficit that is also important is the balance of payments deficit -- 2.5 billion dollars is the pay deficit. It's never been 12.5% of the social product before. We'd like to cut it to two billion. We predicted a whole series of measures. They mostly come down to extravagant protection. It's not any protectionism, it's strictly implementing the rules on the origin of goods, about certificates, about quality, about guarantees, all that our exporters are looking for. When we export our goods abroad, we'll ask for goods to be imported. There will certainly be a certain effect. We think 2% of the social product can reduce that deficit. He'll be here for that and the proposed measures. I hope the Assembly accepts that, and then we can reduce the deficit a little bit. We can't eliminate it completely in three months and in a year, but we can reverse the trend and reduce those deficits. Surely what you objected to is not true, that we will leave the pensioners without pensions; no one will be left without pensions with all those formulas that exist, but we don't know what's going on in the Pension Fund. It may be all right, but we believe it isn't and we won't say, come on, the government is biased; the audit house we'll be hiring tomorrow. Between 10 billion and 15 billion dinars, we estimate. We couldn't figure that out in two weeks, and don't mind us not being able to, but there'll be an audit house hired to find out and see what's going on. It's not pension money, it's some other money we don't know where they're going. Let's say maybe everything's okay, but I doubt it's all right. There's going to be a spending-cutting. From the point of view of income, I simply ask you to use the real data, in the draft budget, tax revenues are 297 billion dinars. There are other revenues left -- 32 billion, and that's real, given what we've collected and what you've collected last year, when about 25% of the income is lower in the first quarter than it is later. Now we have 70 billion, four times 70, that's 280. That 17 billion and because of the seasonal factor will certainly be charged, but we agree with you, and if it's all charged, it's a lot for the economy. That's where we agree, and we need to see how we're going to get laid tomorrow and that it's not one or another pre-election policy, but that it's a matter of a healthy economic policy. So this is the reality budget. Believe me, I would really like to congratulate the people of the Ministry of Finance, whatever you think they were doing day and night. It's never been a practice until now that the entire college and the people who work the budget know everything about the budget. So far it's been a practice that only one man knows, and one on one is the conversation. Now they've all come and no more hiding data, that one sector hides data from another. Some data came out, we published it all, and that's what's called the public or the transparency of the budget process. In two weeks, I think it's maximum, I don't expect everyone to vote for this budget, because this is also about political differences, but I'm sorry that DS won't vote for that budget, because this is a budget that is developing under the given circumstances. We hope that tomorrow we will not talk about the development budget at all, but it will be an investor matter and that investors will bear that development, I would like to have partners in you for future legislative activity. What was right with your laws, I think, was a lot of it, is going to go back to the Assembly, say, the Energy Act is going back to the Assembly very soon. We don't agree with that big merchant, because we don't think that's right, we agree with many other solutions. So there is a possibility that this congregation will continue to work on the adoption of the necessary regulations, which would allow investment in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1334	The word has Zoran Micovic, and be prepared for Hranislav Peric. Micovic is not here. The word is given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric, and let Aleksandar Radosavljevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1335	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of debate here whether this budget is developmental or social. I'd say at first that he's combined, that he's a little social, a little developmental. I think the opportunities in the country only allow for this budget. I'll try to say my view of the 2004 Budget Law. Without the intention of criticizing, I want to point out some of the gaps that have been happening and also to warn those who are working in these ministries today not to make similar mistakes. When you look at the draft budget, at first glance it looks good; the total budget of 375 billion for this year is high, and it gives hope that all users will be calm and that everything will be fine, but given both the previous budget and the promises in adopting the budget, it is usually very promising. When the year is over, the money is spent, there's nothing on the ground that's been done and it can only be realized that this year has been worse than the previous one. I'm afraid that's not the way it is with this budget. When you look at the numbers in the tables that are given, they are high and give hope. When you look at the argument given, you can't see where the individual ministries are going to spend that kind of money and what's going to be done. Some of the ministries that have major budget interventions have explained in several sentences what they will do, so it can be concluded that the arguments of the dwarves are thin for the money they will receive. In the election campaign, all parties promised to invest money in the economy, agriculture, employment, a better life for citizens, while in the budget I see again some powerful agencies that also have good budget procedures. I also know the answer to this question, as usual - if we want to go to Europe, we have to have it. It's clear to me, but you can't explain to these people that we need to create an environment in the economy and agriculture, that we have a large production, that we hire workers, first fill the halls with workers, and then we'll fill the offices and cabinets with agencies, and when conditions are created, then we'll also form agencies at agencies. Since time is limited, I will talk about the funds that are planned for agriculture, sports and funds that are not planned for undeveloped municipalities. The agriculture ministry has a lot of advertising that big money has been allocated, that it is even three times more planned than in Djelic's budget, and that's true. I'm afraid the money won't come into your right hands. When I say this, I can set an example of what it was like last year. It is about early fruit exports, including cloudy cherry, where my Meroscani are the largest producers in Europe. The cherry is driven all the way to the last kilo. The manufacturer gets the least there because the prices of these products are the lowest since when there is cherry. The purchasers, the exporters earned the most, because they provided this raw material at low prices and the state gave the exporters incentives; they have one office, bow and purse, and they get the stimulation, and the farmers the prices that do not cover production. It's good that you've provided for increased funds for agriculture, and the government and finance minister have to build a mechanism to get this money to those that are intended, or to the manufacturer, and thus protect production. There are a lot of problems in this area, because all the coolants are in poor shape, with great losses, and they are not ready to handle these export jobs without the help of the State and the Ministry of Agriculture. The agriculture minister would have to call on all the colders in Serbia to make a strategy for this big export business. From the early fruit, the first pairs of exports could come, enter the country and further prepare the exports of fruits that come later. The budget does not clearly show how the state will seriously participate in the development of underdeveloped municipalities. This is primarily about mountain-mounted areas from which the population is increasingly evicted because of underdevelopment, because it cannot survive in these spaces where there are no basic conditions for normal life. In this way many settlements disappear, and the population is moving to cities that become overpopulated, because there is no infrastructure for that number of people, there are no apartments, no jobs, often in the city become social cases. In order to prevent the discharge of undeveloped areas, the state must invest in the security of normal living conditions in these environments. I know you're going to say it's the Development Fund's task, but it's been shown from practice that the Development Fund is developing more and more developed and less developed. This creates an increasing difference between developed and poor areas. In sports, professional sports are increasingly funded, while little money is being singled out for amateur sports, and this problem is most pronounced in rural clubs that cannot survive, which means that the youth from the village has no right and no conditions to engage in sports. Finally, this budget can also be good and give results for what it is intended to do, if the budget's users "a little more work without stealing". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1336	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Jaksic be prepared. At the same time, Mr. Radosavljevic, I must inform you that your parliamentary group has four minutes and 30 seconds to know, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1337	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're discussing laws that certainly could not or should not have been discussed in a single debate, but that's what the motionary wanted, as well as the majority formed here, and so they did. The budget certainly has the greatest meaning of the laws mentioned, and I will certainly speak of the budget most. The fact is, and that's what we've said many times in the course of exposure, that this budget doesn't have a shred of development in what the Proposer is trying to explain to us; it really stands and that's reality. When you look at the numbers, you get it. During the campaign, the current government's soapy mouths talked about how public spending should be reduced -- it is not in the budget. Interestingly, critics of the previous government, whenever they spoke about the government, always mentioned agencies. I don't see they wiped out the agencies, even expanded the range, so they moved on to the offices. So now we have a slightly larger range: offices and agencies. The promoter stressed that planned expenditures are higher this year than it was in 2003 by 19.2%. So how do we interpret the fact that in the new Ministry of Capital Investment -- which has united two large ministries, the Ministry of Building and Urbanism and Transport and Telecommunications -- when you add those amounts from the last budget, nearly four billion funds. I don't see what that development is and what it will do for development and large capital investments in Serbia. Also at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy (again the ministry that united the previous two ministries) is less funds for nearly 6 billion. For 5.6 billion is a smaller transition fund. Why do I say "transition fund," and he's interesting especially for the city I come from. The Transition Fund this year has two billion, i.e. 2 billion and 100 million, and I want to ask you, Mr. Minister, if you know that in the town of Kragujevac there is a Employment and Education Service that is directly funded, that is to say, the salaries of these people come out of the budget and their amount was only for 6,000 people in the last year alone for 770 million dinars. Are you telling them there's no more employment and education services? But then you have to be brave enough to really say yes, we want to put you out of business and we don't care. Is the business of restructuring the economy even interesting and important for this government, when it predicts such "expansive" assets, which are three or more times smaller than the previous ones? Let me also briefly move on to the law on the volume of funds and participation of cities and municipalities; Mr. Minister, I am from Kragujevac and I am sorry that you realized that Kragujevac was denied by 45 million dinars. I do not accept an apology, because all municipalities in Serbia have remained at that amount, and the town of Kragujevac has been denied for 45 million and we should be satisfied that we have your apology. No, I want you to fix it and it's your duty, 45 million dinars are not small funds, especially for Kragujevac. The proposed law drastically reduced the participation of the city of Kragujevac in sales tax, so that it questioned the financing of trusted businesses that the town of Kragujevac has, meaning, social protection, social care about children, culture, physical culture. I don't believe that with a budget this bad, no matter how small, negligible it may be, we'll be able to make all these commitments come true. For the reasons we talked about, my fellow MPs from the Democratic Party and I in the short lines of time that I had, the DS MPs will not vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1338	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1339	I would like to take the opportunity to give answers, given that the DS parliamentary group has exhausted the time for discussion. A lot of questions have been asked, I'd like to answer them. First of all, as far as Mrs Gordana Komic's findings are concerned, it seems to me that another member of the parliamentary group has found that I did not respect this parliamentary group. The chairman of the Finance Committee knows well that yesterday from 15.00 to 1900 hours we had a debate on the Finance Committee. That's the only reason I didn't come to your parliamentary group, we've been discussing the budget on the Finance Committee for four hours, and I'm sorry Mr Bogdanovic didn't pass it on to you. So, my wish was to contact your MP group, but four hours lasted that debate, and we simply couldn't find time to come after that, because it was already scheduled with other groups. So, I apologize for that, but the reason is not because I didn't want to come to inform you, as I talked to others, but because the debate on the Finance Committee lasted far longer than was planned. I'm surprised Mr. Bogdanovic didn't tell you that. What surprised me, however, also at the Finance Committee and today in this debate is that in a completely different way your parliamentary group is talking about abolishing the tax on the fund of earnings compared to what she said a few months ago. If you remember, the idea of abolishing the income tax did not come from me and this government, the idea came from the previous government, and the bill was prepared, even delivered to the Assembly, obviously for marketing reasons, the moment the government was known to fall. To vote three months later against the law that you yourself have proposed, I think it may have some political connotation, but as an economist and as a man who thinks about the profession, I can't accept it. Yesterday you voted against the law on the abolition of the tax on the fund. Do you think that this country should further tax labour costs and how we can develop our economy unless we lower labour costs; and is it consistent to propose that law three or four months ago, and now that this government proposes to vote against it? I don't think so. As far as the issues are concerned, most of your objections were to the reality of assessing tax revenues. Mr. Labus has already answered that, and I'm going to do it again, because it's very important for our public to have a real idea. So in the first quarter of this year, the tax revenues of 68 billion dinars were planned. It will be accomplished with over 70 billion. So the realization in the first quarter is above plan. I'm talking about tax revenues. The tax revenues planned for the whole year are 297 billion. It is completely realistic, given that in the coming months this dynamic will be increased due to the season, that this projection will be realized. Non-tax revenues account for various fees, which are made on other grounds, which are not tax revenues, and are planned on the basis of a projection of the execution in the previous year. There's no reason not to. As for some speakers who have mentioned that this government is delaying the value added tax and the introduction of fiscal cash registers, gentlemen, I would be most fortunate if the value added tax were already in force today. I don't know what was done in the last three years? Why wasn't this tax introduced? He was scheduled to be introduced a year ago. I will not criticise all people in the previous government, but the fact is that the value added tax was not introduced and that the deadline with the already-quoted International Monetary Fund was repeatedly broken since January 1st of last year. The preparations were delayed, and then, again for marketing reasons, the bill, which is not otherwise completed and has a lot of holes and shortcomings, was sent to the assembly procedure just to say that the government wants to introduce a value added tax. It was done in October, with the idea of taking effect on 1 January 2004. Luckily, it didn't even come to an argument. Because if it were done, given the situation that I found in the tax administration and the state that was found in the work of the new law, that law could not be implemented, there would be a bullet in our economy. As far as the fiscal registers are concerned, the same thing. Why haven't the fiscal registers been introduced? A year ago, he began the process of introducing fiscal registers. The state of the ministry found: only 1.3% of the fiscal registers were introduced at the moment I took over the ministry. Blame this ministry for delaying the introduction of fiscal tills is irresponsible. We, unlike the previous government, have only extended the time limit for the introduction of the register for a month, but you will see that for those who do not respect it will be appropriate - not a ban on action, as proposed by the previous government, because it is impossible to close 90% of enterprises, but first a fine, a milder, and a slightly larger fine, and only from a third time a ban on activity. It's the only way to do it. Secondly, such a regulation was made that de facto did not allow cash registers to be introduced because it was limited access to producers on the market. Even those bonds that want to introduce the register, they can't buy it, it wasn't on the market. That's why we changed it, that there's enough evidence to start a payment of at least 10% of the advances and a contract with the manufacturer. As far as the value added tax law is concerned, my idea was to send it to the Assembly by the end of this month, thinking I'd find a law. When we started reading, 40% of that law, there are big dilemmas, different opinions, it's unworked. He will therefore be here in the Assembly by the end of May and I guarantee that the value added tax will be introduced from 1 January 2005. I wish that job had been done before, instead of the Ministry. I really wish I had less work at the Ministry. But that's what's left of this government to do and she'll do it. As for the income tax, he is said to deny local self-government. He won't deny it. I've said it more than once. As for the solidarity of residential construction, for which it was derived from this tax, local self-government can set out from other sources for solid residential construction. Here's what it came from. If you want to help this ministry, I'm willing to help everyone in local self-government. There's a property tax cut coming up soon. The previous government, although the law is quite good, has achieved less than 1% of total tax revenues by taxing on property. Why? Because it was seen through the fingers of rich people. Give me, please, those of you who are in local self-government, classification of residential areas, to pay a different value to Kaludierica than Dedinj, from certain parts of Dedinj, to make a steppe and progressive tax on property. The property tax is entirely local self-government income. Give me that data in the next month to two days, we'll make a different base for taxing property and you'll get more income for local self-government. We in the IRS at the Ministry of Finance are in a very good mood and we will, independently of your contribution, do so, but I ask you to help me and get the exact specification of the area in certain municipalities and cities, so that we can make this progress. You'll get more from that. Of course, the idea is not to tax those who can't pay, but not to spare those who have huge assets, who pay very symbolically or pay nothing. There was one question - how will tax revenues be replaced after the suspension of this income tax and after the announced reduction of tax burdens on salaries? It was a question of whether there would be an increase in excise duties. There will be an increase in excise duties on some products, which are not, in our opinion, something that is the basic need of life. We'll introduce an ad valorem excise on coffee. What does that mean? That means expensive coffee, bigger excise; cheaper coffee, lower tax. Today the same tax is paid, the same excise duty, regardless of the value and the price of coffee. Also, as far as taxes are concerned, the former finance ministry looked through tax bonds. It's said what time it is to pay taxes. They don't pay people, there's no punishment. All 4,000 people last year reported income tax on citizens. This year, the bonds apparently thought the new ministry would continue with its old practice. Again, only 4,000 people have reported income tax. But you'll see in a month or two, when we file a bill of fines, how much we'll charge from those who didn't report the obligation. So our tax policy will be -- to cut the salary tax, to cut the tax on what it burdens production, but to tax those who can pay and not look at anyone through their fingers, regardless of political belongings, regardless of financial strength. You will see, on the basis of criminal penalties for unreported income tax, this budget will earn at least six billion more than planned. This will replace the maltenes as a whole loss from the tax on the profit fund. Of course, we're going to do a lot of work on modernising the tax administration, because we need to have full records of the bonds. Fortunately, for the income tax we have citizens, for some other things we'll have to improve things here. As far as privatisation revenues are concerned, several lawmakers said they were overrated. One of the MPs even said, quite honestly, that he believes the privatisation revenues this year could be 10 billion dinars. I must say that in the privatisation revenue projection, we used an analysis of the Privatisation Agency, which has been done since Mr. Vlahovic led. So, if Mr. Vlahovic thinks he's unrealized his privatisation income this year, then that's another thing. However, with regard to what the MP said, that it is realistic to expect 10 billion dinars, we have predicted 16.4, it should be said that from the privatisation of companies and banks (probably the gentleman did not count on the income from the privatisation of banks) we count on 14.4 billion, and on the additional two billion from the sale of assets of banks in bankruptcy, so that this figure is conservative and it is without the intended revenues from privatisation in the telecommunications sector, for which the government will soon decide to move there too. That's why we went with this conservative estimate of 16.4 billion. As for the issues of funding of Serbia-Montenegro's court, 7.5m relate only to expenditure under the Interim Financing Regulation. That's why they're budgeted here. Otherwise, the expenditures are taken over by Montenegro as a whole, and it is foreseen in its budget. As for the objections to the agrarian budget, someone made an observation that he allegedly did not solve the problem of crafts and investment loans in agriculture. Obviously, the gentleman did not listen carefully to my opening presentation, because 3.8 billion dinars from the agrarian budget were just intended for favourable loans for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, repromaterials, as well as for the purchase of equipment in agriculture. These are long-term loans from one to five years. Mrs. Comic has asked - other than the questions that Mr. Labus has already answered, about salary growth, which has actually been caused by this great public spending in the last two months - a question about Article 6. Legally by the participation of municipalities in the sales of cities and municipalities. A question has been asked about paying the city of Pristina. I owe an explanation: therefore, all payments relating to the city of Pristina are actually made by the Gracans, but given the legal provisions specific to the fact that it is provided for Pristina that it is actually going to our enclave in Kosovo, in Gracanica. Ambassador Gašo Knezevic asked why participation in the salary tax for local self-government increased from 5% to 30%, not 5% to 40%, as Mr Djelic suggested. Because Mr Djelic did not foresee any participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax, and this law does. Namely, when Mr Djelic sent the law into the procedure, he also sent a law on value added tax, which was supposed to enter into force on January 1st. That's why he increased his participation from 5% to 40%, as he abolished the overall involvement of local self-government in sales tax. Given that the value added tax law will enter when possible, which is 1 January 2005, then this increase from 5% to 30% is quite enough to compensate for local self-government losses based on income tax. Some MPs have rightly asked questions about the purpose of the agencies. I must inform you that at the previous session of the Serbian government, at the initiative of the Minister for Local Self-Government, Mr. Loncar, the government has just taken a stand to have some agencies abolished. Everywhere the agencies duplicate the ministry's work, where it is irrational, the agencies will be abolished, but under the Budgetary System Act, it was not possible to avoid the mention of agencies in this budget, since they were established under the law. By the time they are abolished, the funds for them will, of course, not be used but will be rationalised by the state administration for that amount. If you look at the budget for this year, the participation of various agencies in the social gross product has been reduced compared to the previous year, but it is clear that some agencies, which double the work of the ministry, will be abolished. Finally, as regards the remarks made by the last speaker, Mr Radosavljevic, who says it is reportedly less isolated for capital investments and for social contributions compared to the previous budget, Mr Radosavljevic did not collect a division relating to the executions in the first three months and what was planned for the next nine months, and as regards those ministries that were created by the merger of some ministries, such as the Ministry of Capital Investments and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. So all I was saying was true. There are greater allocations for capital investments, for social programmes, but Mr. Radosavljevic did not carefully read the law. I apologize on behalf of the Government for this urgent consideration of this law, but it is of state interest that it be adopted by an emergency procedure. Once again, I repeat my promise to Kragujevci. The same criterion was applied to all local self-governments. We saw yesterday that the Kragujevac was really cut off by 45 million dinars. I promise the government will make it right through the current reserve. I was looking at the Finance Committee and I'm surprised that at least Mr. Radosavljevic didn't, if he didn't already tell Mr. Stevanović and the DSS and the G17 Plus MPs, but I told Mr. Bogdanovic twice on the Finance Committee, I even asked him to submit an amendment to Kragujevac. He didn't do it. I really think there are some things that need to separate the essence from politics. If Mr Bogdanovic had informed even his MP about this amendment, we would not have to correct it afterwards, and this is how I promise that we will later correct it for Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1340	Replica - Mr. Vlahović, Mr. Radosavljevic, and Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1341	I didn't ask for a word because I was individually mentioned. I want to replicate on behalf of the DS parliamentary group. First of all, it is true that the previous Ministry of Economy and Privatisation has projected revenue at the height mentioned by Mr Dinkic. I would remind you that the privatisation revenue projection was something that was done in November last year, in the period when the budget was being prepared, when we could in no way foresee what followed the parliamentary elections that took place on December 28th, which is, we wanted to admit it or not, a political crisis that lasted almost two months until the formation of a new government. And unfortunately, all of these latest events, including one technical problem in negotiations with the IMF, are indeed an argument to say with full right that the privatisation revenues are unreachable this year at the projected level. On the other hand, when the privatisation revenues were forecasted last November, a significant portion of the revenue was planned from the sale of shares from the Action Fund. Independent of the Republic Government, the Financial Market Act has been adopted as federal, and unfortunately the Serbian Parliament has not been in effective work since July and we have not been able to change the Financial Market Act, which resulted in a complete blockade of the sale of shares from the Action Fund. The figure that has been planned, some, seems to me, 60m euros, indeed seems quite inaccessible today, as long as the Financial Market Act doesn't change. Therefore, from that point of view, we have made remarks, among other things, on the position of privatisation income, and I say once again that there really is no need to hope for large revenues from the privatisation of banks, given the situation found. As for value added tax, then the income tax, first let me say that the value added tax was proposed to parliament in September of last year. I am not entering a qualitative analysis of this legislative project, but it is not true that it came to Parliament's agenda in November. In November, he was drawn from the assembly archives and proposed for parliament's session, and was prepared by the previous government much earlier, as the law on railways was sent a year and a half ago by the previous government of parliament, and parliament did not adopt it; as the energy law was sent in April by the previous government, and parliament did not adopt it. I deliberately mention these two laws because they were a premise of the start of restructuring in public enterprises. Time, Mr. Vlahovic. ) So we had a parliamentary crisis and this caused a delay in restructuring. Today we do not have a parliamentary crisis, we have no problem voting these legal projects and therefore we from the Democratic Party rightly wonder why the restructuring of public enterprises is delayed. Another sentence, no one disputes the need for economic policy to change somewhat compared to the previous period. After all, it is a phase in a medium-term transition policy of the country, but the fact that this budget does not form the basis for this new or changed economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1342	Replica, Mr. Radosavljevic, then Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1343	Mr. Minister, I've collected well, but you've taken away the Kragujevci 45 million more handsomely and sweetly. Don't teach me about procedure. I got a bill of law the day before the session started. Therefore, that was the government's problem. If you're so serious, you should have sent that proposal a long time ago. I understand that it is quick, that you have had a short period of 15 days, but I am truly sorry, if you noticed that Kragujevac is missing 45 million, as the legislator of this law, you could bear it in the light of the amendment and correct that mistake, not to appeal to Mr Bogdanovic, nor to any of the MPs from Kragujevac. Therefore, I'm sorry, the ignorance of the procedure does not release you from responsibility for cutting off the Kragujevci 45 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1344	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. I am taking the opportunity to inform all MPs, as we informed them at the beginning of this session, by an urgent procedure, the law has been given. MP groups have received all the draft laws that are on the agenda today Friday night. I'm really sorry for all the MPs who didn't send their parliamentary groups through, I suppose there were technical reasons. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1345	Ladies and gentlemen, when I use the wisdom of the duchess, the deran doesn't know the order, so the deran comes out and proves I'm right. I put it on the soul of people's wisdom. So, Mr. Minister, for understandable reasons, because of his inexperience in working with parliament, because of the lack of communication with MPs at any level, left out what is called the question of style, when it comes to the minister. Style is often human. If you set up a parliamentary group meeting at 4:00 p.m., then it is up to you, Minister, to show respect for the MPs of the National Assembly and send a personal message to the staff member, for this it takes 30 seconds, it costs nothing, that the meeting is delayed and that the presentation of the budget to the MPs, members of the DS parliamentary group will be done at another time. It is called ignorance of order in the National Assembly, but knowing all MPs in this assembly, we will teach you how the minister treats the National Assembly. That's good for you, it's good for the government and it's good for the atmosphere of parliamentaryism in the country. Besides, you can't call MPs like this, any kind of thing, you can't do that, this is the National Assembly. For you, the business provisions are as good as for every MP of the people, and when you participate in the debate, you must treat all MPs with respect, whether they are your supporters, supporters, or opposition. As for the answer to the question, you didn't give it. So, there's no style, no knowledge of order, but there's no expertise. My question for the law on the participation of municipalities in sales was – how you will collect revenues, not whether what is collected will go to Gracanica, Pristina or any other municipality in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and I have not disputed the idea that these municipalities are placed in the law on the participation of municipalities and cities of Serbia in the transport tax, but they are not in the criteria in the same law. So there is no answer to the question – how you will collect revenues from sales taxes. Of course, I don't argue that you can't write "Granica", because it's not a municipality, but I'm slow to treat MPs with no respect and with confidence that having 126, 127 or 129 MPs, as most people, means your unspeakable support. That's never good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1346	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. As I have warned representatives of the executive authority during the meeting today to take care of how they treat themselves in the wording of the cast, whatever discussion, according to the MPs, is also true, because it is best represented by the MPs. Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Angelkovic. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to inform him that his parliamentary group has four minutes and 40 seconds to go. Let the MP Radovan Teodorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1347	Since we have four minutes, let me just say a few sentences about today's case debate. We are a few days before the end of the first quarter, before the end of March, and when this assembly starts to discuss every element of this budget, and if it wanted every element in the right way to talk and behave in style -- at any cost we don't need a budget, we would not question the budget, but rather question what it was about, its social and development component. One fact should not be forgotten, and this is that if this budget was not adopted today-to-morrow in this House, 262,000 employees in the state administration, plus 130,000, that is about 390,000 and up to a million pensioners, there may be a few thousand, these millions and 390,000 people could not receive these social benefits in March, as they are, whether they are small or large, whether they are increased in this way, as they are increased. I'm saying this because, you have to be a little principled, when you talk about the budget and when we talk about the social and development component, the biggest social component is whether we're going to be in a position to cut this budget, not just today, but whether this budget is going to be thinner and easier, whether we're going to have a smaller income in this budget, that's even more important. When I say less income, not in terms of collecting income, but less economic interventions. The less grips from the economy, the bigger the development component. It's not just that it's going to provide this many or so million dollars to build this road, it's much more important whether it's going to be a redundancy of the economy, whether it's going to work. Today, we in Serbia have a situation that these 1,390,000 should receive a salary of those millions and two or three hundred thousand working in the economy. It's almost one on one of those who needs to secure the economy. I'm also saying this because of the fact, and I asked for it on the Finance Committee, today I heard from the finance minister that these agencies, directorates and similar things that were formed just to get party personnel of the ruling coalition cut off, that's quite clear. Of course, because of what I just said, the SPS will support the budget, so that we don't put many people in a position to perform their duties in education, health care, police and all that is needed in the state. But they won't be able to discuss this budget properly until the end unless we have two sides, on one side of the execution position last year, so let's see if it's an increase or a decrease, and, on the other hand, if we don't have a real position as much as it was in the state administration, in total, I'm talking about 262,000 plus 130,000, how busy it was on 31 December 2000, and how much on 31 December 2003, let's see if it's real for 50,000 people (and which 50,000 people) the state administration has increased. We can now reduce as many positions as you want, but if 50,000 people are admitted to the state administration, and half a million are fired by your policy, by the policy of the previous government, in the economy, then there is no budget that can be made in the right way and that it is both social and developmental. It cannot be either social or developmental in the right sense of that word, if such a policy is conducted. With so many agencies and directors, of course it's not possible to implement it all the way. Thus, it is important for this congregation to receive this information, as is the case. in the Ministry of Education, since we heard here about education, there were drivers and cars on December 31st 2000, and how much today and what on December 31st 2003. You'll see it's ten times that. Will we be able to cut the budget ten times? Whether we should discuss or discuss, as the vice president here said -- how you ruined those 400m euros in the election campaign and put the budget in a position that we cannot discuss. That's 400m euros, and for three years you've talked here about the development of Telekom; you've spent so much on the election campaign, and with so much money spent, you've only got 11.5% of the electoral body. I mean, it's important here that we have some questions that are finally settled. For three years, the previous government explained that we should not finance RTS, that it is a public service, that the Assembly has nothing to do with it, and we got that only in the first three months, RTS was given a billion dinars and we saw it report on Kosovo and Metohija, because it is a public service and not a state service, it is not a good state service. Now, since it is in the budget, it belongs to this country, the state, this assembly and the government have to worry about how it works and see if it's really good and whether it's going to treat genocide and state terror that's happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, since it doesn't kill, I understand why you acted that way. Since I'm running out of time, I'm not going to continue to abuse time, just to say, since you've borrowed that much money, 8 billion dollars for pension -- disability insurance and billions for RTS, and for that reason you filed 54 criminal charges, I'm thinking of you from the former regime, I think the same way this government is going to treat you. You'll say you've legalized it with the law, but it's one thing to legalize it by law and the other is moral, personal and human traits and honesty, how you've acted as a government in the past three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1348	The word has a folk MP Radovan Teodorovic, followed by MP Vladan Vukicevic, who is also the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1349	Ladies and gentlemen, as I first go out for a pay phone, it is my turn to introduce myself: I am Radovan Teodorović, I come from the Municipality of Bogatic and I am a agricultural producer, one of the few here, I think there are only three of us, to the detriment. Let the citizens or parties ask themselves why they didn't put them on the list. As you know, in the election campaign, everyone made a lot of promises for agriculture and the village. Now we'll see if they respect it. Listening to the discussions of some MPs, I was moved by the discussion of former Minister Vlahovic, who felt great compassion for us peasants, so he is also concerned about the agrarian budget. Mr. Former Minister, you've even been struck by the words of my colleague from the Stevanovic parliamentary group, "atrocity, disaster," and now I'm going to explain to you in agriculture what horror and disaster you've done while you've been in that government. (President: Please take care of how we discuss. I'm sorry, here's what you think of us peasants. You interrupt us when we want to talk. Mr. Vlahovicu, it is a disaster to import pigs into Serbia, import acid water into Serbia, import tomatoes, and we throw it on our quantum markets; you have imported braids from Austria, half-carved from Hungary and Brazil, head from Romania, except that you have not yet imported the tails! Isn't that a shame? [[Applause in the O.R.]] Aren't those horrors and disasters? You've exported the chicken meat, you've got a 10,000-ton contingent to export, you've exported an incomplete thousand. Why? Is it because Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic didn't have any more of his bulls? Probably. Do you know what the ransom price of a pig is now in Serbia? [[Applause]] 40-50 dinars. Do you know what the ransom price is for bulls - 75 to 80. And do you know what the price of a kilo of live cattle is? 80 dinars for pigs and 100 dinars for bulls to fit in. It's a disaster you made. It's a disaster that hit the peasants, so we had to make roadblocks because of the previous government. You had a minister who didn't find it appropriate to visit us when we made roadblocks in Machva - 12 days he wouldn't visit us and ask us what we were looking for. We organized ourselves and raised half of Serbia to our feet. When it was thickened, he welcomed us into the Serbian government. The request was to fulfill your pre-election promise: the 13th point - the law on voluntary retirement insurance of farmers. You didn't bring it to this day. You've been taking it off all the time. How many agricultural laws have you passed? Now you've brought some two about the wind and the fruit material into line with European Union standards. Why is there no wheat in Serbia? How is it to be when in the harvest campaign, despite the great drought, you exported wheat. Now you want to import it. And who's exporting and who's importing? In fact, now you know who's going to have to import. They exported those people who were close to the authorities, held the monopoly. This export-import monopoly has ruined us in agriculture. We've had a lot of skin loss, and you've got to take care of it. And the future government, if it behaves as the previous one, on my side, the same words will be heard on this phone. Because I've been chosen by my peasants and I'll represent them honestly and honestly -- every problem across Serbia, every peasant will be heard from this pay phone. That's what I promise them. I'm sorry that there's no resolute agriculture minister present, it's an area where I'm going to devote myself to being a farmer, but he'll probably hear, we're asking to pass a law on voluntary retirement and disability insurance for farmers. I don't know if it's gonna be in the process for this year, and of these six laws, I've seen that only two are ready. I'll ask Mr Dinkic to answer that if he can. I would like to ask one more question: are the funds foreseen for the further accumulation of agricultural properties? Gentlemen, I'd like you to laugh less. I'll tell you that you from the agrarian fund funded RTS. That's what this government can't do if it's going to survive. So, take it easy. So the situation in agriculture is what I described - terrible and catastrophic. But what I'm saying is, in the presentation of the agrarian budget, I've seen there's still a way out of this crisis: I would support an agrarian budget that is now 18.8 billion dinars, knowing that it was seven billion before. Grants for milk, industrial plants and livestock are emerging. In particular, I would like to stress that two billion are foreseen for the purchase of wheat. That's very important. So far, we've always "raised the roast before Christmas," as our people say, and we've never paid the peasants in time. That can't happen now. In order for farmers to renew the production process, they must quickly sell all their agricultural products at normal prices and quickly collect it. Just laugh! Short- and medium-term loans are mentioned. That's something to be commended for. Short-term for six months and medium-term with 3% interest. That's good. But we'll still see how the government works. I ask all MPs, because in the election campaign you have all entered pigs and chickens, that when it comes to the village and agriculture, you are all supported by the agriculture programme, and if something is not good for this pay phone. I would ask for the future, when it comes to something like this, to be with us as Minister of Agriculture and to find fit to visit the Sword once. No minister has ever come to the Sword except for Veselinov when it was a cultural event. It is a great shame because the Sword is a large grain that gives 20% of Serbia's total product. I've been listening to other road exposures today, and that's where we're surrounded. You must have more hearing and meaning for that area. I hope this government has all this in mind and God will give us peasants a light, and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1350	Oh, my God. Thank you. The right to replica has Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1351	I fully understand the emotional discussion of my predecessor, but it would be good if, before accusing the Republic Government of a little inquiry into whose jurisdiction was the customs policy, whose jurisdiction was foreign trade policy, licensing, etc. It wasn't just the Democratic Party. I'm afraid you in your political coalition have, among other things, a party that created such a platform for foreign trade policy. Therefore, if you want to accuse someone, DS is the wrong address, it is the wrong address of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; only since May of last year, to be exact, since 18 April all these policies have been in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And since then, I've been telling you, no decision has been made that could endanger any stock, any agriculture, anything else. The second thing is the incorrect claim that new debts were made to farmers, farmers in the previous period, on the contrary, the previous period was the period in which all the promised premiums, all the promised subsidies were fully paid. I will remind you once again that after a long period of time, it was started with the payment of subsidies, even for long-term plantings, next to the dying of milk, tobacco subsidies, sugar tails, other agricultural cultures, olives, etc., and that in time they were paid, unlike the period of the 1990s, when you, too, seem to have been in power for a time and when the debts of peasants were created among other things and during that period. I'll also remind you that there is no one dollar debt to buy-in wheat. I said a little bit, it's true that the purchase of wheat in 2003 is only three or five thousand tons, I don't remember exactly, not 200 thousand as planned, but it didn't happen because the government didn't have the means to pay, but because the peasants had the opportunity to valorize their product on much better terms. Therefore, I do not want to say praises about what was done in the previous period, but it is certain that in the previous three years the largest part of the debt to farmers has been recovered and it is certain that no new debt has been transferred to the new government for possible future settlement, as well as that not only agrarian policy but also the general economic policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has put agricultural producers in a worse position than it was before 2001,2000. Please, when you come out, it's not just about you, it's not enough qualitative arguments like "atrocity, disaster," but really this place, this house deserves if nothing else, then they're making arguments to support it. I thank you once again to all of you who, in such a deep memory, carry the former government, that even in the budget debate, you can't get rid of yourself, that's a sign that we did a good job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1352	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. I'm informing the Assembly that it's the last speaker for tonight after this search.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1353	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since it's a practice that when the first MP comes out, I will introduce myself. I am Vladan Vukicevic, a maximum surgeon, a New Serbia MP in the SP-NS coalition, otherwise Kragujevcanin. Of course, it is quite normal to discuss the budget that the opposition criticises the budget and that the position defends the budget. I also listened to it as a citizen. That was every year. I remember, for example, that budget in 2000, which was significantly higher than the 1999 budget, which was severely criticised, and then it seemed to me as a citizen to be a terrible burden on citizens. Of course, that budget was also called the development budget, including that budget in 2001 and 2002 and 2003. They were all development budgets. Whether this budget is developmental or social, it will show time. If something is done, it's going to be developmental, and if we have to support a social system that's been created for the past three years by firing half a million people, then by selling all the best companies that have been in this country, then it's going to be partially developmental, and in part, it's going to be a secure social budget. Of course, we live in such a country, it is a situation, and we will have to accept for even longer years that part of the budget will also be the social budget. I want to say something that's been said more than once here, and it's about Kragujevac. I think Mr. Dinkic answered and said that he would make it right. We Kragujevci must, since Kragujevac is in an extremely difficult social and economic situation, have some firm guarantee that it will be done. Of course, when you look at the proposal, i.e. the volume of funds for the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax and sales tax, and when it is looked at compared to the previous year, everyone has been increased, only Kragujevac has been reduced. When divided into the number of inhabitants, it turns out that the population for Kragujevac is 2,072 dinars, for Nis 2.290, for Novi Sad 2,757, and for Belgrade 2,990 dinars. It kind of hurts the most. Usually we all talked in pre-election campaigns that we're going to have to get a little free from Belgrade, but it looks like that thing is still working. For these reasons, this reduction compared to last year's 200 million, and now it's said to be 45 million on these criteria, for Kragujevac it's an awful lot. We Kragujevci did not submit an amendment to us Kragujevci, not because we didn't know we had to invest it, but because we were told that Minister Dinkic told the Finance Committee that he had noticed the problem, that a mistake had been made and that it would be corrected, and we expected it to be corrected during this session. Now we will have to rely on his promise, but we from Kragujevac want to hear when it will be realized and what the guarantee that it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1354	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their right? No, I don't. ( ) Anyone else who hasn't used their right to Article 89? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on income tax, - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on public incomes and public expenditures, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to financial plans for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Individuals, (g) the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, (d) the National Employment Service, - a bill on the volume of funds and participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in the Tax and Transport Tax in 2004. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION ON THE INVESTMENT OF THE INVESTIGATION ON THE FOND REFERENCE (SINGLE) You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on the termination of the Fund Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on public income and public expenditure (single) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government (Single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending the Law on Local Self-Government has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposing representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE 2004 BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milomir Minić, Djordje Mamula, Esad Djudževic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristić, Gašo Knezevic, Istvan Ispanovic, Bojan Pajtic and Gordana Komic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pitiæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1355	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted this amendment in order to precisely define the funds for the broadcasting institution Novi Sad, i.e. Radio-Television Novi Sad, and I propose that in Article 4(1) of the 1st indent, 1st percent 18.6 rises to a percentage of 26.29, and in a note two percent of 28.0 is replaced by a percentage of 33, given that no partial balance has been made, or a partial balance is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and is in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the partial balance relates to the demarcation of Serbia's Radio-Television, i.e. RTB and RT Novi Sad. I remind you of the extremely difficult material situation of Novi Sad's Radio-Television, above all, because she was badly injured in the bombing. From Radio-Television Novi Sad is broadcast in eight languages, and there are only two studies, and it is unconditional. Given that the Radio-Television of Novi Sad employs 1,453 people, I point out that this bill does not address the issue of funding for RT Novi Sad; if in 2004, this funding would be carried out on the burden of the AP Vojvodina budget, it would not be possible to provide a new billion 177 million and 690 thousand based on these rates proposed, and this type of correction should be implemented. Also, it was necessary in Article 7, I will only take a brief look at myself, as it is now a Article 4 that delimits 3 billion and 200 million dinars to 820 million dinars to RT Novi Sad and the rest of some 2.5 million dinars to RT Belgrade, respectively. I note that the number of employees in that institution who are in a difficult material position due to technical conditions is necessary to define their material status in this way, i.e. by increasing the rates referred to in Article 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1356	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Milovan Markovic in the same text. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Miniæ, please, so Mr. Markovic, one and the other, go ahead. First Mr. Markovic. Here, it's the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1357	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to Article 6 comes directly from the amendment that I also submitted to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 6 refers to a reduction in reserve funds of one billion. I will explain the reasons for this when the amendment to Article 7 comes and I will give an explanation of where these funds are being channelled and why there was a need to submit an amendment to Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1358	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milomir Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1359	I have proposed that the 500 million dinar figure, as proposed to provide funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara area, be increased by a billion dinars. The reasons are numerous: September 30,1990. In the year, this area has been hit by a severe earthquake, the damage is huge, some 6,000 houses have been torn down, dozens of schools, church facilities, industrial buildings, and there has been an earthquake in a very undeveloped region of our republic. At the end of 1998, the parliament passed a special law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes and for two years, until the government changed, about 2,000 houses were restored, dozens of schools were built. The government changed, the law was abolished, but the source of the financial transaction tax remained in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The damage to the earthquake is 22 billion dinars. So far, only one quarter has been removed. I wanted this proposal to try to convince the government of Serbia and the MPs in this House to try to increase this figure by a billion dinars, and why? Serbia has had experience in earthquake recovery, unfortunately, and shows experience that such devastating consequences can be restored in five to ten years. We spent ten years in Skopje, five years in Banja Luka, 10 years in Montenegro, and five years in Kopalnik. Only with the Colombian end did a situation like this occur to try to eliminate solidarity in Serbia, and I don't think that's good. I am convinced that this amendment will not harm the Republic of Serbia's budget for the following reasons. It's about building houses and schools, it's about construction. These funds would be a direct incentive for a construction operation, would mean an increase in economic activity, and people would get rural homes. A question has been raised today over the debate whether electoral promises will be respected in Serbia. There's a minivan nearby. From all the parties we were there, and everyone publicly promised that this injustice would be eliminated, and that disaster made by nature. We met with people in that poor neighborhood, where in three seconds, what they had created for four or five generations went away. We spoke to the Minister and the Finance Committee. If this amendment was adopted, the budget would have no damage, the government would have no damage, and Serbia would confirm that solidarity that is certainly necessary for this end. They are rightly critics of possible spending gaps, because the funds that stand out for solidarity throughout Serbia must be spent very responsibly, so that they check everything, whether we're responsible, or if we're past the government, surely they can't disturb us from providing support, because today, around four and a half thousand people live in broken houses. That's not a good message. Otherwise, that neighborhood is underdeveloped. It is undeveloped agrarian, industrial and has a very difficult economic structure, metrotrerad, which is a problem for all of Serbia. Valjevo, as part of the region, is today the last city in Serbia. I would be free to call the government and the MPs to try to declare this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1360	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, I support the amendment of Mr. Milomir Minic's MP. I was informed by MP Milutin Salesovic that he withdrew a similar amendment, which concerns a similar problem in the territory of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac. I want to say the next thing. Last year, we had the opportunity to see a presentation of Serbia's seismic map on the Committee on Urbanism and Building. I want to say here that the Colombian end and some regions in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, but others, on that map, are marked with red. Not to get into judgment and profession. I simply call on the MPs to be familiar with this map and with these opportunities or troubles. The most important thing is, when we talk about the consequences of this natural disaster, that we broadcast a message to the citizens of Serbia, who should know if, God forbid, something like this happens to them, that they have their own government that must protect them when difficult days come. I think the principle of mutual solidarity in the country, however poor it is and whatever it is, must be the level of principle that we all have to stand for. Since I have been informed that there is a good will to bridge this matter in a way that the funds are not shown in the budget, but in some other way, we will pay attention to that promise. I simply ask responsible people in Serbia, the Mine as a shut down volcano, anything that gravity towards the Mine, the Colubary End and some other regions could be very threatened one day. I say once again, we must have a government and we must have a state that is ready to respond to such suffering, if such a torment occurs to the citizens. We singled out for the Bosnian province, for the Kopalnik, for Skopje and for Montenegro, and no one needs to be uncomfortable about it. On the contrary, we should be proud to have participated in the reconstruction and construction of our country and helped our citizens in the then state, but we should not deprive the citizens of Serbia today, because our country is so small and so poor, and when citizens themselves do not have the strength to solve the problem, because a man without a roof over his head is not a man. Therefore, I ask that we support, in the form of promises or any other form, the initiative, or amendment that Mr. Milomir Minić, the MP from Valjev, submitted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1362	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić and Milovan Markovic in the same text. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1363	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, in the previous address, although it was an amendment to Article 6, was given an explanation of the amendment to Article 7 by MP Milomir Minic. But I don't mind. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and it has resulted in the need to submit amendments to Article 6. It is therefore an amendment to the draft budget law, which refers to an increase in funds allocated to the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubara County. The draft budget law provides for 500 million, and my proposal is to increase those funds to a billion and five hundred million, which is in agreement with the programme that the Council of the Directorates made and referred to the Government for adoption, and the bill also notes that the funds will be spent under a special programme adopted by the government during the year. The effects of that earthquake are rarely known. Rarely anyone who doesn't know about that September 30th, 1998, when an earthquake hit the Kolubara County with an epicenter in Mionica. In his campaign on the scene, the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia saw the consequences of the earthquake, as well as other politicians, and not the only one promised that, when the opportunity comes, or when it can, it will personally advocate to remove the consequences of the earthquake in an adequate manner. It is indeed an elemental disaster, which caused a disaster in that otherwise undeveloped area. There are more damaged objects in the mine area than there are households. This is the information which is evident, which has been established by the Commission. So if someone does not understand the situation of this earthquake, as well as the consequences, then we are really not a society that has a high degree of solidarity and understands the need to care for those who do not have the essential conditions for life. Of the more than 5,000 households in the mines area, there are six thousand and something registered objects with damage, over 3,000 objects that are for demolition. According to the latest data, a little more than 900 objects are being done, which are intended for destruction, in which you cannot live safely, or cannot live at all. In previous years, the level of funds allocated to this budget position was not the amount of a billion and five hundred million, amounting to 760 million for 2002 and 700 million for 2003, but in this period it was done to obtain more precise data on how much total damage was estimated, that it was invested with 24 billion, some priority and rationalisation, down to 13 real billion, to find that up to now revolving funds, which were invested in a previous period of more than five billion, and that the missing funds, which should be invested to fully eliminate the effects of earthquakes on residential buildings, schools, schools and health facilities, and some other facilities, needed by local self-government, are about eight billion and six hundred million. That's the information that was adopted by the Council of Directorates that was forwarded to the government. This resulted in the need to provide some dynamics on the basis of the planned funding of a billion and a half in 2004 to remove the full effects of the earthquake for the next five - six years. I really don't understand the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group -- Slobodan Milosevic, without doubting the good intentions of MPs and my colleague from Valjev Milomir Minic, that this was the right moment when the parliamentary group, which makes up the assembly majority here, is expected to support the bill and to install this in the draft budget law. That really looks like cheap political demagogy. There were so many opportunities that, if it were of good faith, if this were truly true, they would hire the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Capital Investment, which is a direct user of these funds, to deliver the arguments and to be incorporated into the draft budget law. Today, by contacting MPs belonging to the parliamentary groups of the assembly majority, I was given some explanation that a billion and five hundred million were not realistic, that it could have been something more, but that there was no procedure in time. And indeed, if in any parliamentary group, and here almost every one, except for the G17 Plus MP, there are MPs from Valjev, or from the Kolubar County, no one has been able to explain this proposal in a proper way and to enter the bill, and now we hear that there is an undivided concern for the fate of the citizens of the Kolubar district and that it will be compensated, this was the right way and the only absolute guarantee that it will be done. Since the Finance Committee has rejected the amendment's proposal, it is entirely illogical to hear another appeal from the SPS from here - vote for this amendment. Representatives of all parliamentary groups of the assembly majority are sitting on the Finance Committee. How has the motion to reject this amendment been voted upon? Don't send messages from here to unhappy citizens of Kolubara County and above all, Mionica, let's be honest. So there was no congregation majority's will to seriously consider the proposal passed by the Capital Investment Ministry to demand that it be at a level of one billion and five hundred million. I urge you once again to vote in favour of this amendment, if there is indeed a sincere will to ease the torments of these citizens and these powerful families who live, let's ask where, not in their houses, and they have no facilities for elemental life, and it has been six years since the earthquake was in a Myonic region. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1364	The word is Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1365	And the devil sometimes gets white. This is a real shame to hear it now, and a mess. I am a member of the Finance Committee and voted in favour of this amendment, unlike Mr Bogdanovic and members of the Democratic Party who were not even on the Finance Committee. It is the Democratic Party and it is the democracy of the Democratic Party, fighting for the development of Valjev. We, as a parliamentary group, in the image of MP Milomir Minic, who represents the neighborhood, submitted an amendment for a billion and a half to raise this amount for Kolubara, when we received this law. You, Mr. MP, only submitted when you saw Mr. Milomir Minic's amendment and then you remembered that amount, to submit the amendment. We were on the board, we voted for it, we received assurances from the minister that from the appropriate positions, additional funds will be provided for this amount, unless this amendment is passed, and we will vote for this amendment. We're here in the Assembly, we're going to support it, and we're going to ask for this law to be implemented by the end, more specifically, to rebuild all the houses, and you've been able to advocate yourself a little bit more in the last three years, so you can finish this project of rebuilding the houses, not give us lectures here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1366	Replica, Mr. Markovic. This was a discussion, not a replica. This was a discussion on Mr. Angelkovic's amendments. Here's your line, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1367	I really don't think it's Mr. Angelkovic who, without any right, abuses this pay phone and gives someone a sermon on what was to be done with the consequences of an earthquake in the Colubary County. It is one of the most difficult political, social and economic issues in the Colubary County and I think that someone else is responsible for why those who have most abused the torment of the Colombian district today have been given the right to hold a sermon again and to teach us what was to be done and how much effort was needed to re-examine everything that was misused in the torture of these citizens until 2000, what was all done. I will truly support every initiative to determine until the end how it was built, what was built, where the funds went, who gave the orders, at what priority the houses were built. Don't you, Mr. Angelkovic, here to tell the MPs of the Democratic Party what was to be done and what was done. We'll file all the accounts for what we've been doing with those departments for the past three years. I have been a member of the Council of that Directorate in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the last two years, and I know how it was done, I know how much has been changed in the methodology of work and in the criteria for setting priorities in this Directorate, and I know how these real indicators have happened that say what needs to be done and how investment has been reduced to the most rational and necessary. Do not teach us how to do things in a fair way, how to respect priorities at the request of citizens, with valid decisions that exist about everything that has been done. This directorate, you certainly know because your party comrades certainly worked in agreement with you, was the main lever for leading the political economy in the Colubary County, without sincere intention of helping citizens who suffered a natural disaster and a personal disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1368	Replica, Mr. Vlahovic, for mentioning the parliamentary group, and then Mr. Dinkic as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1369	There is absolutely no reason for Mr. Angelkovic to test the responsibility of the Democratic Party. I will remind all MPs that the Finance Committee is scheduled, past the knowledge of the chairman of the Finance Committee, at 16.45 p.m., with the beginning of the session at 17.15 p.m. to discuss the amendments. If all the members of the Finance Committee were to be present, it would be logical that a session or at least a chair of the Finance Committee was consulted during that period. The same goes for the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, which tomorrow has a session to discuss the budget, which we will obviously end up with the whole story today. Therefore, that is the only reason, Mr Angelkovic, why neither I nor Mr Bogdanovic were present at the meeting of the Finance Committee. In the future, in order to avoid any dilemma, it would be good to at least two hours in advance to be informed of the meeting of the Finance Committee, and this is especially true for the chairman of Mr Bogdanovic's Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1370	Replica, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1371	For full notice, I have called, as president of the Assembly, the Finance Committee, prior to informing the chairman of Mr Bogdanovic's Finance Committee, in the presence of a number of MPs, to ask that no huge effort that you have all put forward from all parties to adopt the budget today, because Serbia is waiting, everyone is waiting. Thank you, but Mr. Bogdanovic said he couldn't have it before tomorrow at 9:00. I accepted that apology, I scheduled a committee, and there were no representatives of some opposition parties on that committee. That's the full truth and they certainly bear responsibility for it, but it's two hours before the appointment of the Finance Committee. He was scheduled and I thank everyone who participated in it. That's a lot of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1372	Replica, Mr. Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1373	Replica, my colleague Markovic mentioned me. This is a very sensitive question. There's a lot to be said from a congregation pay phone, but this is such a sensitive question. At the end of 1998, the SPS proposed and then parliament's assembly unanimously adopted the Funding Law. What Markovic is saying today, as who did, cannot be checked in parliament. The Republic government can check when we're in power and the DS is in power, what's the fact? The DS government has proposed that the law be repealed. It remained a source of 0.15% of the sales tax, pouring into the budget. As the government changed, there was less and less money. Last night, in Valjev, the Prime Minister, a member of the DSS, accused the previous minister of construction, of ruining the whole project. I'm not giving it a head start. Once again, I think it is very important that we adopt this, if the Government can accept this amendment, provide resources to the people and send one message, and carry out all these controls that are spoken of, and that I do not experience that this is about some demagogy and use, at the beginning of the mandate, of such a sensitive issue of political propaganda and manipulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1374	Thank you. Replica, on what basis? (Sanja Cekovic: As a member of the Finance Committee. ) Don’t be angry, you were on the Finance Committee, but no members were mentioned. You have the right as a People's MP, according to this amendment after this. Mr. Dinkic, here you go, as a proposer. Of course, according to the amendment, you have the right to both.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1375	Given that several MPs have appeared on this amendment, I would like to talk about the numbers. I think that's the most important thing, because the numbers say everything. For this purpose, according to the Ministry of Finance, 4.7 billion dinars have been spent since 1999. A total of 4.7 billion were spent to resuscitate earthquakes in the Kolubara region. When we planned the amount of funding for this commitment this year, we started from the execution of the previous year. In the previous budget, the plan was 682m dinars, and the execution for the previous year was about 600m. So, the previous year, 600 million dinars were spent for this purpose, while 31 million dinars were spent during the temporary financing of the first three months of this year. This motivated the government to anticipate for this purpose this year the amount of 500 million dinars, therefore, in view of the implementation of the previous year, above all. That is why the government is unable to accept the amendment at this time to increase this expenditure by an additional billion dinars, otherwise there has been criticism that there should be a lower budget deficit, with the biggest observation here referring to the intentional use of funds. I don't know how these funds were used in the '90s or between 2001 and 2003. There was one proposal here to approve an increase in funds, to carry out control. The principle of the Ministry will be next – first control, then funds. So these 500 million will be spent under a special programme that will be adopted by the Capital Investment Ministry. I'm convinced that the citizens who lost their homes in the earthquake need help. But first, let's spend this 500 million, to repair the direct damage to the citizens, not to spill it out through some other channels, to carry out control of the current spending of funds, and then, if necessary for this year's additional funds, we approve from the current reserve additional funds. We fully support the purpose of using the funds; 500 million in the budget, given the implementation of the previous year, is enough, given that nine months will be used, because we are already at the end of March. And then when we get control of the special programme of the Ministry of Capital Investment, we'll see if there's any more resources needed to build these houses; if it's possible to execute it in this year, we'll add from the current reserve, if it doesn't, then we'll plan into the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1376	Thank you. We are continuing to discuss this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1377	By using my right to report for this amendment, I'd like to introduce myself first. I am Milica Vojić-Markovic, MP from Valjev and I am on the list of DSS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica. What exactly am I trying to say? If you listened carefully to my fellow citizens, Mr. Minic and Mr. Markovic, you would conclude that only one part of Valjev's citizenship was an earthquake, one belonging to one or the other party, because they were the most worthy of this aid coming from 1998 to today. Unfortunately, obviously those who didn't belong to any political option, because I have to remind myself it's from 1998 to 2000. The Socialist Party ruled, and from 2000 to 2004 DS, so, those who stayed, and that's 3,000 people, 3,000 houses that weren't built, they don't seem to belong to anyone. That's what's important. Citizens of the Kolubar County lost their homes, not some members and supporters, not potential voters. It is important that this parliament takes care of it when it is declared. Members of the so-called Parliament. The positions, i.e. the SPO-NS and DSS coming from Valjev, have respected the arguments made by the minister and will find a way to spend these 500 million first, but it is also valuable to see first where all the assistance that came in succession in Valjevo in 1998 went. We all insist on that, as MPs of the post. I know and I'm absolutely sure that when these funds are spent, they'll find a way to help the citizens of the Colubary County again, and it's very important that they understand that there is one really normal relationship here with things that are of priority, and the priority is to help people who are in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1378	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1379	First of all, since I've been president of So Triestenik since 2 December 1996, I'm a member of the SPO. The earthquake that struck Valjevo and the environment at that point was truly catastrophic. However, few know that the Triestean end, or racial end, was struck by an earthquake in 1999. We had bombings, floods and earthquakes that in a material sense caused much greater damage; the Trieste municipality, that part, Mala Drenova, Velika Drenova, Milutovac, a densely populated and rich area, where the damages were great. I think solidarity is necessary and that assistance and other parts, where there was also damage, but at that moment the Trieste municipality, as well as during the DOS, was opposition and for the first time at this point we are also in the republican government. I don't want to use a political position, but I think that the attitude towards the people of the Trieste community must finally be correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1380	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the time I came up on the subject, it was quite exhausting, but as a member of the Finance Committee, because of the accuracy of the information that was being heard there, I would like to say that all present members of the Finance Committee have shown good will and desire to help everyone who needs help. The amendment was not accepted, but it concluded that the opinion was also addressed to the finance ministry and to the other ministry, to find a way to help people and build houses, as well as what was suffered in the earthquake. It is also suspected that the funds that have been coming together for many years have not been deliberately spent. That's what happened on the Finance Committee. All MPs were present, including MPs who were not members of the Finance Committee, and showed the will to do so in their area; only the MPs of the Democratic Party were not present on the Finance Committee. That's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1382	Please, correction - from the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1383	It's true that for the third time I'm going out for a pay phone, but in order for there to be no confusion, I have to say that there is a Democratic Party in Valje's power. Yes, she offered DOS personnel who were better at the time. In Valjevo is the president of the municipal assembly from the Democratic Party, the president of the executive board is from the Democratic Party, but we are together in a solid coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia, with New Serbia, the Liberals of Serbia and with six other parties that were then taking part in power. Ms. Milica Vojic is Vice-President of the Municipality of Valjevo Assembly, Vice-President of the Executive Committee of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and it is really inappropriate now to say that the Democratic Party has done something that has not passed the procedure, which has not been passed through the Executive Board, etc. We worked it out together and tried to solve our problems together. Therefore, do not leave people’s messengers and those who are watching us in error. So we worked together and there was no individual bad intentions on either side. That's what I'm responsible for here. As for Mr. Angelkovic's remarks that I submitted the amendment when I saw someone else, the Democratic Party's amendment -- Boris Tadic were filed this morning, we agreed last night. If you voted on the Administrative Committee for the amendment, I expect you to vote here for the amendment, and that the SPS parliamentary group will consider whether it should vote in favour of the bill after the amendment is not accepted. It is a fundamental legal principle, which is not here and I have no illusions that it will be so, but if someone who is part of the congregation's majority finds out about the bill on the day it is discussed, submits amendments and it is coldly rejected, then I really don't have much hope that with the help of the SPS-Free Milosevic, the majority will provide some quality laws or reforms, and you can make as much an illusion as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1384	Thank you for your correct exposure. He has the word Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1385	It is obvious that some MPs find it difficult to cope with who they are and where they are in the coalition, so they do not know who to attack, who to defend, etc. One thing is certain: it is a shame to talk about such a subject in this way. It's about people who have survived a natural disaster, and today we're fighting between political parties about it with a desire to pick up a political point. In particular, it is inappropriate for a lady from the Democratic Party of Serbia who involved the SPS, as if the assistance were shared by supporters of a party. Please, we've been in power since that earthquake for another year and a half. You've been in power there three years since, along with the Democratic Party and the DOS. So, you're carrying at least part of the responsibility for it. Don't be ashamed to be there in the coalition with the Democratic Party. Well, that's normal -- you have to go somewhere with them. As for the SPS, the Democratic Party and the DOS have filed hundreds and thousands of criminal charges for these three years, arrested hundreds and thousands, so you'd probably have arrested someone by now if a crime had been committed. Who was defending you? Why weren't you in control? Now you've remembered to talk about it, when the time has come to control you. Anyway, this is a subject that doesn't deserve this kind of treatment. The citizens of that region deserve to be answered by the question of whether they will be able to realize what they gave to other parts of our country when these ends were affected by natural disasters. It should worry all of us, not whether any of the political parties are going to compete, arguing over such a painful topic. For all these reasons, our SPS MP, Milos Minić, has submitted an amendment to this end, rather than seeking to score political points. During our government, we introduced this law, we introduced a commitment, and the funds were collected. Mr. Mucic, who was an MP, was the director of the Directorate and built more houses in a year and a half than Milutin Mrkonjic in Serbia. After all, he, gentlemen, is still at large. Therefore, the SPS has endured the worst that could have been right of you from the Democratic Party. You think someone's still afraid of you? Do you know that you have fallen from power?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1386	Thank you, does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The 7th Amendment was filed by MP George Mamula and I am informing the Assembly that he has withdrawn the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Judgjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1387	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I received a call for a session of the Legislative Committee tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. I wanted this amendment to provide, which I suggested in my first speech to this House, one concept of establishing partner relations between the state and members of the national minorities. This amendment has been followed by a further institutionalization of this relationship. I must remind myself that last night, as chairman of the Committee on International Relations, I had a conversation with representatives of all ten national councils formed in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, because five or six days ago I received a letter from the representatives of the National Council and their wish, between three and four requests addressed to this assembly and the Government. I remind you that there are 38 national minorities in this country, that of these 38 national minorities, 10 have managed to form national councils in accordance with the law. They asked the government to provide for the financing of the functioning of these national minorities, so that it would not turn out (which we have often heard as criticism) that the national councils, i.e. the law that treats them and on the basis of which they are established, are simply one political gesture towards the international community, primarily according to the Council of Europe; therefore, the fulfilment of an international and legal obligation of this state, and without any political desire and will to enable the practical functioning of national councils. I say, last night, on the Committee on International Relations, where we had representatives of all 10 national councils, all the political options that attended and formed the structure of the Committee on International Relations supported this request, but we were later told that the Committee on International Relations was not the parent committee on this political requirement. I don't think that's a good thing. I would ask you, all MPs of all policy options, to vote in favour of this amendment and to ask the Government, or Mr Labus and Dinkic, to support this amendment, so that we do not send one bad political message to members of all national minorities that there is no political will to integrate them in this way institutionally into this country. I must say this in the end, especially in the context of an image that has been visited by the world these days, which is a picture of the attack and burning of the mosque in Belgrade. I have to tell you, from last night's conversation with representatives of all national minorities, the Bayrakli mosque was simply a symbol and a message to all members of the national minorities in this country. If we refused in this way to help the practical institutional integration of national minorities, I think this way the government of Mr Kostunica would send a very poor political message to us members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1388	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Proposer's representative, please, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1389	I must say that the request for funding of the National Minorities Council -- this does not only apply to Mr Djudjevic's proposing, there were other representatives of minorities in this parliament who highlighted the request -- unfortunately he did not arrive at the ministry during the budget-making process. That's not a big request, as far as I know, it's about extra money from 21 million dinars, compared to the nine that's been planned. So, it is planned for this division in the budget. We have taken a principled view that we do not change the current reserve, by rejecting other amendments we had to reject this amendment in principle, given that the actual current reserve was measured to preserve the stability of the budget in the next period. I believe that the request is justified, as is this request for assistance to the Kolubar region, but not in that amount. I can also make a promise that if it turns out, and it will likely prove, that nine million is not enough to finance this important council, that we will separate from the current reserve, the government will decide to increase that amount over the year. Otherwise, it refers to the transfer to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and this council is on the sidelines. So, just for principle reasons, it's not accepted, otherwise it's a very small amount. I'd be inclined to accept it, but because we rejected the other amendments, that's the only reason we didn't accept this one. If MPs feel that the amendment should be accepted, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1390	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Replica, please, Mr. Judjevich, someone mentioned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1391	Yeah, yeah. Only, Mr. Dinkic, if you would like to hear this request was signed by the 10th president of the National Councils on 10.03. So, just trying to bring this dynamic into line with what we heard in public in terms of determining the draft budget of the government, we reacted in time. We sent it to you, and to Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Markovic. Therefore, he was sent on time. You said another thing, that part of the funds could be financed from the current budget reserve -- I think that's a bad way, because that's how we're just establishing an uninstitutional relationship with national minorities. This was one transparent way and, anyway, I think the figure of 41 million is a symbolic amount relative to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1392	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1393	I would like to say that the funding of national councils is a kind of commitment of the state that has prescribed the functioning and the way of the elections and everything else in its rules, because, as we know, almost a million inhabitants of this country are representatives of national minorities. You remember, one of the conditions when we were to join the Council of Europe was, and it was even delayed several times to enter the Council of Europe for reasons why we did not pass the minority law. We passed it and it was done according to the highest European standards, but when it was meant to finance what was provided for by this law, the federal state said it had no budget, the Republic said it was federal law, municipalities were determined according to the law one way or another. However, if the state has the potential to fund minorities in an uninstitutional way, I don't think it's good for the state, and a certain number of minorities receive certain donations from their countries of origin. There was a lot of controversy in the press when a country of origin financed a minority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as the country has some political interest in funding a minority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If the state won't fund its citizens, someone else needs to fund them. A million inhabitants of this country pay taxes, participate in production, are citizens of this country, but when they need to be financed in an institutionalised way by the existence of national councils, then all formal reasons are opened, existing and non-existent to give up funding of national councils. I therefore call on the government, the MPs to support the funding of national councils in a transparent way, and in the only institutionalised way to show this attitude towards minorities, that they are equal citizens and that they have the right to finance their premises and their work from these funds. I think that this will make it justifiable that we are members of the Council of Europe and it will prove that we have not passed that law to be admitted to the Council of Europe, and that we avoid funding what they tell us when representatives of the Council of Europe come to ask us how we apply this law. This year we had two conversations with them. We had to inform them that the state had done nothing to finance the activities of the National Council. I think it would be extremely unserious and irresponsible for a million citizens of this country who need to finance their activities, and they are foreseen by federal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1394	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1395	Here, in addition to what I was saying in the general discussion, one example. In fact, when you look at the share of the salary in the education budget, you come up with a devastating fact that the salary fund covers almost 90% of the education budget. This is a very bad proportion. It means that for the rest or developmental part of the education budget, there's only about 10% left, so don't hold my word. In happy countries, the relationship is 60-40. In fact, 60% goes to pay, and 40% goes to development. Of course, we are far from being a happy country, but our goal is to change it, to change the ratio in favour of development, that is, at the expense of wages. Therefore, for these 10% that belong to the development work, it is very important that, to the greater extent, they are actually covered by budgetary resources without going to the expense, or to the profit of the authorities, because they are not. The three-year experience is such that the organ actually won't make a profit, so it won't finance that part of its own ministry's expenditure. Sometimes it's devastating that "the tar is harder than the measure", because let's say the example I give, for higher education is set aside for buildings and building land of 15 million dinars from the budget and 219 or 220 are their own revenues. First, higher and higher education cannot achieve so much of its own income. Two, 15 million is miserable. Repair of the hall, or roof of Belgrade University's formal hall, will take that money if it gets into it. On the other hand, we have concluded a gentlemen's agreement with the city of Belgrade, the truth has no sign of it, so we have no firm agreement, to finance 120 million each for the accession of three universities around Vuk's remote heating monuments; the price was at Ministry 120 and the city 120, to activate a large Norwegian donation that would help those colleges. It's tech-metallurical, Machine and Law School. That's not gonna happen. If we leave these items, there's nothing of it, or it'll all fall to the city, and the city will say right, so it's not just my job, we'll have a bigger, or harder "tare than measure". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1396	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you are, Mr. Nenad Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1397	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I tried not to discuss today, and because I wanted to not be who I'm going to have to be now, and I finally abstained and I can't do it anymore. What the former Minister of Education has just said speaks of the government's incredible attitude towards Belgrade. That goes beyond really all the boundaries, where a man wonders why these people in this government hate Belgrade. Come on, they hate all local self-government, I can understand that. They probably see local self-government as something terrible, like something they don't know how to live, like something that doesn't know it works. I made one calculation, and I'm sorry that yesterday we couldn't get on the Finance Committee to talk to each other evenly, because, simply, we didn't have time to make some calculations, or to get them from the Finance Ministry, but I'm going to do it briefly, so it's clear why all the local self-governments in Belgrade have experienced what they've experienced with this budget, and I'd like to ask the DSS people, first of all, the SPS people, to explain to their local self-governments what happened to them with this budget. You know there's a tax-of-the-earth tax suspension and we said, okay, the Ministry's idea is healthy, it wants to reduce the burden on the economy. It was 3.5% so far on gross wages or, as the minister said, 5% on net wages, and then allegedly we were replaced by all 25% extra on net wages. Whoever knows how to count, as soon as they use a simple calculation store, they'll see that all the municipalities there are cut off from 1.5% on the net salary. Calculate that and you'll get all the other calculations that say that's not true, that's not true. I'm ready, here, to cross arguments with each of the Ministry of Finance, to sit down and calculate, and here's why: 14% is a net salary tax, and that's true; if you take 30% of that, that's 4.2% of that total, so we had 0.7 and we have 3.5% supplement, and that's the same base, it's not some other base, and 5% of our base has been abolished. So, all the municipalities, all the local self-government. And that's not all, because everyone's been reduced in sales taxes, everyone, rarely who's passed without being reduced. Belgrade has experienced such a disaster, which I do not completely understand -- eight times it has been reduced, eight times, from 4% to 0.5%. They say Belgrade has money; we'll sit down, and we'll figure out how much money anyone has and what they can do. Belgrade took it upon itself, and I must tell you, and I suppose other local self-government, some obligations, and that is why we and the Ministry of Finance agreed last year to be a transitional year, because a tax on extra value will be introduced, where some local self-government will return some money. If the Ministry had time to talk to us, we could have explained ourselves. So, what have we taken on ourselves? Full-school investment. No elementary school or high school has been built in Belgrade for 20 years. You today have huge school needs in Belgrade suburban settlements. I'm asking you, what kind of money is that going to be made from? From a reduced amount of money? Secondly, we agreed to take over some of the responsibilities of the Republic government, because it was a problem to organise it in the Republic government, related to the Ecology Programme, related to coastal programmes, for river protection, for some things that have never been done, for the previous government, and neither will this government. We've received an educational inspection, we've received a bunch of functions, and as a consequence, our money has been reduced, and why? When it comes to Belgrade, whether this government is really not interested in the university at all, is it possible that this government does not know that practically the University uses municipal services as well as all other public institutions, such as the Republic Government, all of which are still below the economic price. That goes from the Belgrade budget. I could count a bunch of things here, but I know someone's gonna find it hard to understand, because he didn't find it appropriate to at least invite us and try to tell him this. Maybe it needs a republican budget, but because of the way it's been taken away from all local self-government, I think we're going to have huge problems as a consequence. I'll tell you the truth in the end. Belgrade will survive this, as it survived, which it is not allowed to take away the best possible loan it has received from the European Investment Bank. Why? I have no idea. It is likely that one day someone will explain, from any parliamentary group sitting in the federal parliament. But please, take care, at least respect and understand us a little bit and believe that decentralisation is the only right thing for Serbia. Don't say that only local self-government isn't right, so I see you're planning to take away what's not taken away from them by local self-government at the most difficult times of socialism and communism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1398	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1399	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 7 refers to changes in digits in heading 1st function 110 and in section 5.1. The topics of both divisions are atypical for the opposition MP of the National Assembly, and without the hope that the ruling majority will support these amendments. The lack of a proposal can be placed on the lack of precision from which position I want to remove some kind of sum and to whom to kidnap. However, given that, as well as other European budgets, the deficit budget, the deficit should not be an issue for the rejection of amendments. The National Assembly is the only parliament in the region that has no budget. So there are no congregations in the region that are not authorized to bring their own budget and manage it, only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have had problems with the urgency of the whole subject, which is completely understandable, but also with the lack of committee work. Only in exceptional cases does the President of the National Assembly convene the Finance Committee. The sensitivity of the Committee's chairman from the opposition parliamentary group is about the state of parliamentaryism in the Assembly. And generally, the Assembly committees, which I propose to single out 120 million dinars, have no way of making their own plans and work programmes, nor have they any way to plan what is the core, the skeleton of parliament can work through the year, monthly, however the chairman of the board should, together with the whole committee, make arrangements on the work of the Assembly committees. If the work of the Assembly committees, there is no financial position, it is a message that we do not consider it significant. It's perfectly natural at this stage of institution building to ignore it. So if one Assembly Committee (for finance, for Kosovo and Metohija, if we are not going to have a position on the actuality of the tragic topic, for the constitution) in the budget of the National Assembly, then what is the question of this budget that brings this assembly's thoughts on the committees of the National Assembly? Probably nothing special. I have no intention of lobbying with a typical demagogue appeal to the logic that the National Assembly accepts this amendment. It's only logical that the Assembly agrees. But, wanting to share the desire to be a rebalancing of this budget as soon as possible, please take into account the need for a special structure of the Assembly budget and, before entering the National Assembly in an identical emergency manner with the budget rebalancing, the Assembly shall submit a proposal on the budget of the National Assembly, where the central position has the resources necessary for the work of the Committee of the National Assembly. The second part of the amount refers to the Office for Joining the European Union. The government has opted for the Office's methods of joining the European Union, as an institutional solution set up in the government above the ministries, and under the authority of the vice president, or the Prime Minister. It is negligiblely small amount of 44 million money for all the jobs that the Office for Association with the European Union needs to do. A larger amount of money for the work of this office will be necessary if the Office works. So, for the engagement of people who are supposed to work for the Office, and for documents, and for everything that represents the network work of an important institution, such as the Office for the Jobs of Joining the European Union. I repeat, without any particular hope, as logical as it may be that the ruling majority accepts this amendment, since I will be the submission of the bill on the National Assembly, or the Law on People's MPs, to the first opportunity, so to the budget rebalance, I want us to take care of this, so that we do not justify the lack of attaching importance to the National Assembly by urgency of the procedure and by the fact that everything has to be done again in 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1400	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Mr Bosko Ristic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Ispanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1401	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for a little patience, since it is the last amendment. My predecessors, especially my friends from Sandzak, explained why funds should be provided for the work of national minority councils. That's not what I'd like to talk to you about. I have proposed an amendment asking for some reduced resources from the funds proposed by the ten councils of national minorities and I urge the finance minister to find a solution. Namely, I should remind those MPs who were also in the previous session that I had submitted an almost identical amendment to the budget of the previous year. Then Mr Djelic promised to provide funds in case I withdraw the amendment. I withdrew that amendment, and Mr. Minister didn't keep his promise, so these tips ran out of funds. It's also a legal obligation. I ask you very nicely, simply, a law was passed on which these bodies of national minorities were founded and these organs cannot work because they do not have the most basic working conditions. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Finance that, preferably, the Government accept this amendment. If it does not happen to be accepted, it will certainly find a way in which advice can receive at least minimum funds and allow them to work for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1402	Thank you. The word is proposed, Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1403	I have to say, two amendments with different numbers arrived for the same thing. Mr. Esad Djudjevic asked for an addendum of 41m dinars, and asked for it to be provided in the culture ministry's division, while Mr. Istvan Ispanovic sought an additional 21m dinar for the same purpose. Since the figures are not in line with whether 41 million or 21 million are needed for advice, the purpose of use is not disputed. Nine million are scheduled for the ministry of human and minority rights, in a transfer to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. If Mr. Judjevic wanted to relocate the use of Mr. Ljajic to the Serbian government and if that's his intention, I don't think it's correct. Another thing that is not correct, the amount is not precise. So, the purpose is fine, the National Minority Council is founded by law and must have financial resources. We predicted nine million. If that's not enough question is whether another 21 or 41 million is needed. We believe that this intention should remain in the division of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. And as for the actual amount, you have a promise to Mr. Ispanovic and all of you who are proposing that when we determine exactly what the costs are for this office, we will grant additional funds from the current reserve, but we cannot accept the amendment, either, given that the numbers are not agreed. I'm taking the opportunity, since this was the last amendment, to answer... (President: I apologize, Mr Dinkic, the last of this bill. I'm sorry. To answer to Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Bogdanovic. As for Mr Pajtic's amendment, firstly, it is a matter of principle - if the Democratic Party does not accept the law in principle, why is it submitting amendments? I don't dispute the right to submit amendments, but if you're against the law, I don't see any interest in bile debates over the amendment. I think it's okay to propose an amendment, but as much as you've criticised the budget law, I've come to the conclusion that you won't accept it and I don't see the purpose of the amendment then. As far as your amendment is concerned, the figures governing the participation of the AP Vojvodina in profit tax of 18.6%, which were proposed in this law and 28% in profit tax, are fully in line with the AP Vojvodina Finance Secretariat. We had consultations with them, they were coming and we talked. Those are the numbers they were looking for. If you consider it more as an MP, then it should have been agreed with the AP Vojvodina Finance Secretariat. So these are the amounts they've been looking for and we've put them all into law. So that's why we reject your proposal, given that from the province of Vojvodina, from the Finance Secretariat, these figures have arrived. Secondly, it is about participation in profit tax and income tax without restrictions, which means there are no restrictions. Given that Vojvodina is the most developed region, it will be more achieved and I think that indeed these amounts that have been identified will allow uninterrupted financing of AP functions. This does not address the issue of deobligation and financing of the province's television. I think 3.2 billion, as planned for RTS, is enough for this year, and a partial balance is to be implemented and to see how television will continue to be financed. That's why this amendment was rejected. As for Mr. Bogdanovic, I can really say that I am a Belgrade citizen. I love all of Serbia, but I am a Belgrader and no one can say that someone else in this country loves a place less where he was born than the one who goes out for a pay phone. That's one thing, and the other thing is math. The mathematics is not correct, Mr Bogdanovic, which you were talking about, as well as the other budgets that your MPs made are not correct; 3.5% and 14%, respectively 3.5% on gross wages and 14% on salary tax is paid on the same basis. So 3.5% plus 5% of the participation at 14% is 4.2% of the income. Increase from 5% to 30%. What's 30% of 14%? Also, 4.2%. This is completely neutral, the differences are only compared to the fact that there are 14% payouts in municipalities and that's why we could iron through sales tax. The finance ministry and this government are ready to enter into debates and polemics, but indeed with correct mathematical budgets. You've made a very wrong budget, which is why we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1404	Replica, Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1405	Dear Members of Parliament, dear Minister, we always show by our actions whether we love something, whether we hate something, what kind of relationship we have to something, not by pleading before this speaker. You said that yesterday, and if you remember, and I'll remind you, 3.5% was on gross salary. So this income tax wasn't 3.5% net, it was gross and it's net 5%. We'll sit down and figure it out. I don't have any dilemma. There's an account in percentages, there's an account in the pure amount of money that we've calculated today, of course since we haven't had a time and we've calculated it. We'll be very happy to convince us that's not the case. So there's no dilemma, but I need to remind you again that Belgrade is suffering, and I'm not saying this because of it, I know people from other cities understand me. I've always been very flexible when the DOS was in power when it comes to these things. I never asked for a special status for Belgrade. I can show you a thousand parameters of these criteria in the ministry that Belgrade is in the worst position of all local self-government. No problem, I'll show you, we'll sit down and figure out how many people there are, how many taxes there are, what there are and what are convincingly bigger than everyone else. This university thing is way out of line. I can't believe 15 million dinars are scheduled for university in this investment government this year. I'm sorry, we're only in high school. We're projecting to invest a billion dinars from the city budget this year. I agree with you that you probably don't need the university that much, but 15 million for the university?- I'm sorry. The former minister said the project is fundamental to both Belgrade and the university. Three large boiler rooms need to be shut down in the city centre, that finally three significant colleges get heating and that the city of Belgrade is half participated. He was ready for the whole job and to get a triple donation from the Norwegian government. It's a program that exists that no one should forget. Of course, if someone asked us, we'd be reminded. I'm not saying it's an evil intention, but we're doing our part. There's no offense, there's no evil intentions. Try to understand us, too. We're fighting for something that we think is important. We don't have anything personal, that's how it is, and I hope that's how it's going to be understood in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1406	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1407	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very strange structure when you transfer to the MPs which will not support the law in principle and submit amendments. Basically, the basic right of MPs by the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution is to correct the law. The minister's obligation is to respect the MPs, especially when the MPs are replicating his presentation or when they wait for him for two hours in the parliamentary benches to talk to him, or to present the budget to them. I think we've taken a bad path if the executive authority will react in this way and deny the People's MPs the right to submit amendments. We are submitting amendments because we believe they will improve the text of the bill. In this case, it is 1,453 employees of Novi Sad TV. It's about television, an institution that was destroyed during the bombing, and it's about that we don't want and we have no intention, and we have no reason to believe in promises, unless those promises are included in the bill. We believe that, in this way, by increasing the rate to 18.78 or 33.33, we might be able to address the issue of funding the broadcasting institution TV Novi Sad and therefore I propose this amendment. I therefore ask the Minister to approach the MPs' proposals with more respect, because these proposals are aimed at improving, above all, the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1408	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Judgjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1409	I don't know if I made it clear enough in this first address. I submitted an amendment from this area as the conclusion of last night's joint meeting of the Committee on International Relations and the representatives of the 10 National Councils. I proposed forms as a People's MP, but the conclusion of the Committee on International Relations with representatives of the 10 National Councils was to authorise me to submit this amendment as chairman of the Committee on International Relations. The second thing is, it's a figure bid, 41 million. We have done here, as representatives of national councils, a complete position, for each national community a certain amount. The right to tell you, I'm going to repeat this one more time, we care that as a government and as a state, we show a relationship to national minorities. The amount that fell, let's say for my Bosniak national minority, we spend it for a year on acid water. That's 4.1 million in these 10 national councils. So that's not the point, it's something else entirely. The second thing you said, Mr Dinkic, is that we don't trust the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. You know there was a campaign called tolerance. The minister used the funds for an election campaign after which he unfortunately lost in Sandzak. Therefore, the unique position of these 10 national councils is that this position is going from the Republic budget and I think it is the obligation of this state; we had hope, in addition to all this, that in this way, institutional, civilised, in line with European standards, we show that there are still millions of people in this country who are members of national minorities. In this way, by rejecting this amendment, this government ignored the political will of millions of its citizens; whether they felt like Bosniaks, Bunjeci, Croats, Bulgarians, Romanians, Vlasi, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1410	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, Mr. Labus, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1411	I have to assure you that national minorities will have adequate funding and that in agreement with the Minister for Human and Minority Rights and the Minister of Finance, a solution will be found. There will be a solution to this moment. We don't think what's proposed is a solution. You have our public belief that all national councils or councils of national minorities will normally be able to carry out their activities and that there will be no financial obstacles.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1412	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give a final statement on this proposal? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities, towns and cities of Belgrade in the income tax and sales tax in 2004. You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Goran Knezevic and Milutin Svetovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milutin Svetovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Salesman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1413	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, by writing these two amendments, I wanted to correct one injustice. That injustice cannot be corrected, but it can be tempered. It is again about that earthquake that took place on September 30, 1998, and which the epicenter had on Mount Malen. On the other hand, the southern side of Malina and Suvobor stretches out a good part of the territory of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac and my intention was to try to help the inhabitants of these sub-subor villages, in what the then president of the municipality, the MP, failed in this assembly. At the time, modest funds were allocated from the municipality's budget, and most of their funds were selenated from their houses, but large rinks appeared in time. These slides threaten communication between the village of Brajic via Ravna Gora towards Struganik, then from Takova to Rajac further towards Ljig; Takovo, Gornji Banjani and kilometers of local and untegorized roads are damaged by the rinks. I would extend, since the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, to meet the Joint Committee on Urbanism and the Committee on Finance, not only to consider this problem of Gornji Milanovac, but also the Rasin County, which was already being discussed here. That's one request, I hope she adopts. Otherwise, I withdraw this amendment at the request of the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1414	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? I'm sorry, Mr. Salesanovic just pulled the amendment. Thank you. National MP Milutin Svetovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You're withdrawing that amendment, too? Thank you. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1415	In order not to repeat what Mr Bogdanovic said, what other DS MPs said in the principle debate, there is no dilemma, local self-government is damaged by this substitution of income tax and by increasing the income tax from five to 30 percent. The budget in the municipality of Zrenjanin is that we are in absolute terms damaged by some 5% of our money, as I have heard from other colleagues from local self-government. This amendment proposes that funds are fully directed beyond the limit set by law to local self-government. So far it's been 50-50. The state will not be damaged, because it will realise its planned revenues, and on the other hand, these revenues will mean a lot to local self-government for investment development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1416	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1417	I would like to support Mr. Knezevic, because local self-government has been greatly damaged by the suspension of the income tax, and participation in sales tax and income tax will not be sufficient to replace these funds. I think this is one of the good ways to secure additional income. Talking about a limited budget and not limited needs in local self-government is not enough, because I can tell you that we have also received some new and additional obligations: primary health care has entered into the work of local self-government, and there is no means for these purposes. For example, in the Vrbas municipality so far, over the past two and a half months we have invested in primary health care of about 3 million dinars. Then, as for the seminars for teachers and teachers and licences, about 4.5 million dinars are required, and we also have no funds for them. I would like to say something to Mr Dinkic about the property tax he was talking about, and that we should deliver the zones and so on to tax the property in the right way. I would tell Mr Dinkic that the base of the property tax is indeed not marketable; this tax represents the original income that belongs to the municipalities as a whole, but it is necessary to coordinate, or assess the market value of the property. For example, someone bought a house 30 years ago and it was re-valorized in such a way that, for example, an apartment or a house of 20,000 euros pays 30-40 dinars a year for these purposes -- for property tax. This should be resolved either by a state-level law or by a government regulation authorising the tax administration to re-valorate the value of the assets on the basis of the estimated market value of the real estate, and on that basis the property tax is calculated. That would be one of the additional revenues of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1418	Thank you. Here you go. On the occasion of the same amendment, and then Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1419	According to this amendment to the municipality of Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjanica went badly. Most of the municipalities in Sandzak will receive much less funding this year than in previous municipalities. It may not be directly related to this amendment, but I must say that today I am surprised by the Deputy Prime Minister who announced that when the budget is passed, he will talk to a federal minister and that their talks will depend on an institutional framework, or whether the institutions provided for by law will finance them. So it depends on some conversation, not on the government's position as state institutions according to national councils. I have to remind the Deputy Prime Minister - when he was a vice-presidental candidate, a map came out after the election, a territory where national minorities live. (President: Mr Omeragic, please do not mock the Assembly by changing the subject on the agenda. ) The second time I have the right to speak, you deny me, but let me say what I want. (The President: You have just advocated in your discussion that by mutual arrangements nothing is resolved, but only by law). I just want to say that if the state has such a relationship with national councils to put them in budget reserves, national councils are not an elemental disaster or something that cannot be predicted. They've been living for two years, and if someone thinks they're putting them in elemental disasters or what they can't predict, we're interested in the item for future time. That's why Mr. Judjevic mentioned the number that was provided for our national council, I'm not even going to say it, because it's so much he can't even use for elemental things. This is about the country's institutional attitude towards national councils. The funds will not be able to finance a few months of their work. I wanted to say this is very important because of international relations. Mr. Judjevic spoke as president of the International Relations Committee. He had a meeting of six dozen representatives of national councils. So we are not expressing our opinion, not any council, but the opinion of ten institutions representing national minorities in this society. If we stay in reserve, then it'll be an elemental disaster for this country. This is not correct and therefore I call on MPs to show by their vote for these 40 and a few million that they are above party interests and thus show their attitude towards minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1420	Thank you. I pray that there is no use of the pay phone in this way in the future, because there is no reason for that. We also fully understood Mr. Judjevic, he spoke very clearly, and we received clear assurances from the government. He has the word Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1421	Why do I want to support the amendment now on the agenda? I want to support him, because at least that amendment is trying to correct an unprecedented injustice that has been done to local self-government. If the finance officers had told the new minister what the previous minister had been doing for 15 days along with local self-government, he would probably know where the mistake was. I'll be completely broad and I'll say that these poor 0.5% traffic taxes, which you've reduced to Belgrade eight times, you cut out and divide the other local self-governments by this criterion, because in half of Serbia you'll have a reaction. You're the only one yelling "wow" because in half of Serbia you'll have a reaction in the sense that you don't care about local self-government. And even if you cared, at least you'd try a little hard to at least where you keep the government informing people what's waiting for them. That's not what you're interested in - no problem. You will see their reactions and you will see that half of Serbia's local self-government will have a huge problem in functioning. If you think it's a situation where you just have to say "wow," I don't mind, believe me, Belgrade will survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1422	He's got the word Mr. Salesman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1423	Gentlemen of the People's Chosen, I would like to invite dear colleagues from the Raška region to join the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the Committee led by Mr. Rakovac. There they can bring forth their problems that will be adequately treated. I would like to tell Mr Bogdanovic how much he cares about local self-government says that the chairman of the Presidency of the Permanent Conference of Serbian Cities has scheduled for tomorrow at 1400 hours a committee to discuss today's budget and the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1424	He has the word Mr. Bogdanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1425	I respect Mr. Svetovic very much, and I have to inform him that I know about this meeting before he does, and he doesn't have to worry about whether we know what's going on. What happened in Kragujevac and what was in a very incorrect way today called the Democratic Party parliamentary group, with the idea why it did not or did not submit the amendment, sorry, and how can you submit the amendment when you do not know what is behind this bill? This is one of the ideas that exists and is trying to partially solve this thing through the amendment. Of course, Kragujevac is also very broad, he doesn't only think about himself, Kragujevac knows, and you, Mr. Svetovic, that what was proposed, our agreement, and in the previous government that it was respected. I don't see the slightest reason why this amendment should not be accepted, because it will solve a lot for the Kragujevac, but also for some other municipalities. Therefore, at that meeting, local self-governments, not as party governments, because this is not a place for party response, but will act as serious, responsible people, because I believe that in most local self-government there are serious and responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1426	Replica. I'm sorry, he really can't right now. This was a replica on the line. This was a replica of your exposure, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Radosavljevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1427	I'll talk about Kragujevac again. I think this is a good opportunity for Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to make a mistake they made towards the town of Kragujevac. If local self-governments cannot project their own budgets, which will monitor the growth that exists in the Republic of Serbia's budget, then indeed what is the meaning of local self-government. So I really think that the proposal that was delivered today to DS MPs, I say today, is really nakarad. On the other hand, Mr Dinkic made one precedent, which is that when he designed the law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities, he avoided consultations with local self-government. That hasn't happened in the last three years. You have a large number of local self-government representatives here. I also know that very well, as one of the MPs of the previous Kragujevac assembly. Mr. Bogdanovic knows that very well. That precedent was made this time. For this reason, the president of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, Mr Rajkovic, has scheduled a meeting. He is that he is one day late, but this shows how well the government has cared for local self-government, because he has avoided consulting with local self-governments and, after and after, let's do it in 15 days to make a bill, so how God gives you. I don't think this government really can do that. I was hoping that this government would comply with the laws, respect local self-government, and I can hardly believe that today we have the opportunity to adopt here in the Assembly one such scrupulous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1428	On the occasion of the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not support this amendment, and I am truly prepared to forgive this precedent to Mr Dinkic, because just now there was a precedent behind the assembly speaker -- a man who was waving papers and talking about Bodrum and telling the truth now again among us is a MP here, which really is one big precedent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-23-0.u1430	Please, topic. Well, since no one's answering for a date anymore, thank you. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the 23rd of March 2004, at 21.45 p.m., as a day for voting on all points of the agenda. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. [[After break – 21.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to the vote, please determine if we have a voting quorum. I find that the sittings are attended by 130 MPs and we have a voting quorum. We move to a vote on the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON FINISHING THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Tax on the Fund of Profits in principle. For 129 MPs, against 19, of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Tax Tax Act in general. For 129, v 20, of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the termination of the Law on Tax on the Fund of Profits. We move to a vote on the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on Public Arrivals and Public Expenses Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure in principle. For 129 against 19, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure in general. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. We move to a vote on the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Law on Local Self-Government in principle. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Local Self-Government in general. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Local Self-Government. We are going to vote on the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004 in principle. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 126, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Milomir Minić and Milovan Markovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 102, four abstentions, two of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Milomir Minić and Milovan Markovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 103, abstention four, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Esad Djudjevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 118, with five abstentions, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 129, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, v. 127, they did not vote four out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gašo Knezevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 126, two abstentions, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, two abstentions, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 129 of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 8th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote with the correction. For six, against 123, with 16 abstentions, there are not three votes, of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with a correction by majority vote. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004 as a whole. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2004 budget by majority. Having adopted the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2004. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2004. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2004. For 129 against 20, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2004. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2004. For 129 against 19, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2004. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2004. For 129 against 20, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2004. I am putting to the vote the draft decision on giving consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2004. For 129 against 20, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2004. We move to a vote on the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the scope of funds and the participation of municipalities, towns and cities of Belgrade in the income tax and sales tax in 2004. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004 in principle. For 128, against 19, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Goran Knezevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 127, two abstentions, not one, a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the volume of funds and participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004, in general. For 129 against 18, one of 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly passed most of the votes a bill on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in 2004. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to during the session by the MPs. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provision of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, at a session on 23 March 2004 at 16.25 hours, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 21, against 124, two of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has considered all the points of the agenda and decision on them, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I finish this sentence I would like all MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party, the Serbian Movement of Reconstruction, New Serbia, G17 plus, the Socialist Party of Serbia, please forgive them, the Social Democratic Party, all MPs who were responsible today, whether they agree politically or disagree, whether they have objections that may be discussed in the next period, and the government may adopt them, or have no objections, but we all know that in Serbia neither the government, nor the citizens, and let alone the attempt to protect what is happening in Kosovo, it would not be possible that today's budget and these laws have not been passed. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it happens all the time when a difficult battle on the state's interest is being fought, it is customary for someone from the battlefield to escape. I feel sorry for everyone who was forced to do it today, but I know that many of them have done it hard hearts. I thank you for everything you've done for your country and I ask you to tomorrow, because we do not forget that the five-year anniversary of the start of this country's bombing, MPs, representatives of the parliamentary clubs, at 11.30 p.m., from the assembly we all go together to mention that his sanctity of the patriarch is to be served by Serbian Mr. Paule at 12:00 p.m. at St. Mark's church. Now, according to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004.
