ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7033	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 137 MPs present today. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall and there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has announced the absence of MP Svetislav Krstic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. I give the word to the People's Messenger Radojko Obradovic, and let the Messenger Milos Jevtic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the budget rebalancing story. In the first few discussions, the key question was whether there was a need for rebalancing at all or could have been done in a different way. Of course, opposition MPs are trying to create a false dilemma in the Serbian Parliament and in all Serbian citizens. It is forgotten that the first three months of 2004 were in force to decide on temporary financing. It is forgotten that the government was formed in early March 2004, and that according to the Law on the Budget System, the deadline for adoption of the budget was 31 March and that we had only 20 days in the Serbian Parliament to prepare the 2004 budget. It is forgotten that during the election campaign at the end of 2004, in the last quarter of 2003, a terrible expansion of public spending was achieved to fund a pre-election campaign. I'm asking Mr. Chairman to create conditions to discuss, if that's possible. If he's not some kind of chairman, he'll make a statement. It is forgotten that all revenues made from privatisation in 2003 were practically spent in the last three months of the same year and that the pre-election campaign financing commitments imposed all of this on the following year. It is surprising that people who sat in government until a few months ago have overlooked the fact that the one-year budget does not represent the right picture of public spending. It must be observed at least a few years in advance and a few years back. All those commitments imposed in 2002 and 2003 had to be financed in the current year. It all made the budget look what it looks like. Four-fifths of the total budget are pre-planned commitments, according to various funds, according to public services and institutions financed from the budget. As many as 20% of the budget is provided for in this space that can provide certain financing, a certain investment. All these facts of the environments were not spoken here, which forced this budget to be as it is and they all imposed that the planning did not allow to predict what would happen in those few months afterwards. Changes have been made on the income and distribution side, and this has imposed the need for rebalancing. This government obviously does not intend to finance public spending through regulations or otherwise, hidden from the public or from the National Assembly, and that is why today we are talking about budget rebalancing. At the Finance Committee in the Serbian Parliament, we also talked about the period from adoption of the budget to today, several times, the implementation of the budget and the commitments of the Ministry of Finance and the entire government. Particular attention should be paid to controlling budget spending. I must point out that the budget inspection at the beginning of this year had only 14 employees, and she didn't even have her own manager. The service that needs to control the spending of 50% of Serbia's social product, around 10 billion euros, has only a few employees. She didn't even have a boss. I think if he went to the Health Insurance Fund, he'd have been working for at least a year or two, not to control all those institutions. I would remind you that at the Finance Committee at the beginning of this year, we found that the previous period had been controlled by public institutions and local self-government. In more than 50% of these institutions, abuses, i.e. non-application of applicable laws and regulations, in particular laws and regulations relating to salaries, have been detected. What we expect is for this work to persist and to first strengthen that service in the coming period, and then all those abuses that have been discovered to be remedied and that all those responsible for that punishment are being punished. What we expect to do in the next period, and what the previous government has not done, is to create a service within the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Serbia that will analyse any new borrowing, therefore, which will determine for each borrowing an assessment of the increase in the gross social product. We didn't have it, we don't have it today. We absolutely don't know the positive effects of any new borrowing. The total debt at this point is about seven billion, an internal debt of about five billion euros. The commitments in 2005 are 750m euros, significantly higher than they are in this year, and we expect that the budget ahead of us under the Budgetary System Act will be in the next few months, we expect to change the full structure of public finances, the structure of the spending of these state funds, and, on the other hand, open a space for the return of all the obligations we have towards the institutions outside and inside. We expect to strengthen the budgetary inspection, strengthen the structure that controls the spending of public finances, and take particular account of all the positive effects of new borrowing in each new borrowing. The DSS and the parliamentary group will support budget rebalancing because it is better than the previous budget, because it is better than the 2002 budget and because it opens up the possibility of making a budget that will be better than this in 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7035	The word of the messenger of the people is Milos Jevtic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, because of Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7036	Dear Members, of course, when we talk about amending the Budget Law, which represents the basic instrument of economic policy, we must, as MPs, reflect some of the basic principles of the market economy, and not introduce elements of social demagogy and populism into this debate. Just the final part of the Finance Minister's exposé as a proposing introduced the principle of social demagogy, introduced the principle of populism, urging MPs in this assembly to vote in favour of the bill, reportedly, to ensure pension payments for our pensioners, payment of salaries in Serbia. Even months ago, in March, when the draft budget law was discussed, we warned that this year's budget projection was not realistic, that it would actually give a much greater budget deficit than is allowed in the arrangement that our country has with the IMF. That turned out to be true. The budget deficit in the eighth month of this year was 17.6 billion dinars, and if it continues at that pace, the deficit will definitely reach 45 billion at the end of the year. So, budget revenues of 329 and budget expenditures of 374 billion. It is known that the arrangement we have with the IMF simply does not allow a budget deficit greater than 30 billion dinars. How does the promoter plan to fill out this deficit? So, primarily with privatisation revenues, it's 5.5 billion dinars, something from loans and 8.9 billion donations, and the remaining is net domestic funding of 18.3 billion. It is very symptomatic that the central point of this draft budget law is actually a reduction in public expenditure, and this began in August, and this has resulted in some 1.2 billion savings in August, but the question arises, why did the government not start with such austerity measures much earlier. As far as budget revenues are concerned, I am very skeptical, especially when it comes to revenues, and should be achieved on the basis of privatisation. The projected revenues from privatisation in the March budget were 18 billion, and to this day only 10% were realised, i.e. 1.7 above all on the basis of the war of those privatisations that were successfully completed in 2003. We have reason to believe that this 5.5 billion dinar revenue will be realised, above all, because this ministry, which needs to deal with economy and privatisation, does not have its own minister. When the Ministerial Act of the Ministry was adopted, the name of privatisation was deleted, I thought the reason, above all, was the termological nature. After a few months, it became clear that this government is not giving privatisation any significance. It is clearly seen from the fact that this ministry of its minister is not even today, that it has some kind of co-ordinator, and that the former minister is on the way to Belgrade-Cyrich, that he has not yet received the aggregate, because he thought he was going on vacation there, I mean Switzerland. As for the climate and environment needed for foreign investors to come to our market and eventually buy a company, the climate is catastrophic, especially because no attempt to privatise this year has ended without an affair. I can mention "C Market" and "Prince Milos", I think I've said enough. As for foreign investments, the minister said in his statement that one of the main incentives for foreign investors in 2004 is to boost investment, and above all by reducing the profit tax to 10%, that it is the smallest profit tax in Europe and that it is a signal for foreign investors to come to Serbia. Of course, statistical indicators speak exactly the opposite of what the finance minister said. In this year, we had only 380 million foreign investment dinars, and of which more than 70% were realised on the basis of the 2002 and 2003 arrangements. So much for foreign investment. It is completely incomprehensible that the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law does not provide for an increase in customs revenue. It is known how much goods are coming into our country without customs duty, let the lower customs tariffs, where the customs revenue is directly reduced. It simply comes to my mind whether the government admits that it cannot control smuggling and abuse in customs? The next item I would mention, which is related to this bill, is the issue of restructuring public enterprises. This was all taken a few steps back, first of all because market principles were not reflected, because this restructuring did not even want to be implemented. So today we have a return of several decades back, I mean that period of the design economy when prices are not allowed to form on the market. Despite having the historic highest price of oil in the last 50 years, therefore, NIS is not allowed to correct that price. The direct consequence, besides NIS making huge losses, is that Serbian citizens very often cannot buy oil and oil derivatives at pumps. After October 5, 2000, I really thought that we would never see fuel dealers on the streets of Serbia again, but after such measures, I am really not sure. The next item that can actually arise as a result of this projection of the 2004 budget is certainly inflation, and the National Bank itself is forecasting in a double-digit amount. The only thing I disagree with the governor of the National Bank is that amount of 12%, because I think it is much more realistic to predict that inflation will reach 15% by the end of the year, which is very bad compared to what happened in 2003, when inflation was between 8 and 9% year-on-year. The last position in the budget I would like to comment on is certainly the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, who are paying from their funds for the organisation of various rallys and protests in Belgrade. So, there is an abuse of official position, there are elements for criminal acts, but I think it should be handled by the competent authorities, because it simply does not say that Serbia has a problem with the budget deficit, that this government cannot secure salaries and pensions, and that it organises protests in Serbia on the other hand. In the end, I'm going to say why DS won't vote for this rebalancing bill. So, it does not lead to the stabilisation of financial opportunities in Serbia, behind such a rebalancing does not come anything, and after a few months, the need to re-balance the budget. This does not bring financial stability to Serbia or its citizens. That's why my proposal to the government is to withdraw this law, or the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7037	The Messenger of the people is Sredo (Mihail). Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7038	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, surprises the discussion of a political party that will not support budget rebalancing. I understand, those who are opposition, that they do not want to do it, regardless of the arguments, but it is surprising that the Democratic Party's position to keep quiet that this year's growth will be between 7% and 9%, production growth will also be a two-digit one. We serviced the debt payment, which the previous government made and what never happened, which is to cut expenditures, not to look for new sources, there will be no new taxes, there will be no new taxes, but only to cut costs, and all in order to reduce the deficit that is being talked about. I won't talk for long, since we've been discussing this for a few days, and I haven't seen any valid reason not to adopt this budget rebalance. They were all political pamphlets, they were political passwords, and there's no reasonable reason, if anyone wants to reduce the deficit, that they should be attacked for it. I don't really get that. The second thing is that the sources are increasing and that they are revenue, that new taxes, taxes or higher customs duties should be introduced. Just one more thing to tell my colleagues from the Democratic Party, who say they won't vote for budget rebalancing. Apparently, they say we took them down. We, when we crashed, were neither the reason nor the budget nor the laws of reform that were being passed. We were satisfied with their behavior and they messed things up. If they're going to tear us down, then they need to find something that's not right in our behavior. Otherwise, as far as this legal document is concerned, it's perfectly logical and I don't see any reason why they don't vote for it. Also, for gentlemen of the Radicals, as far as I was listening to them, their remarks were the most intense why Mr Dinkic was on Radio B92, and it was not the moment for them to see him in the O.R. That's no reason for them not to change their minds, not to support this budget rebalance, because no real and valid argument has ever been made that it should not be supported. It's clear to me, because they like to manipulate, sell fog in public and use this pay phone to do it. So, for example. in that previous declaration, they will not vote to join the European and economic community, because that is why we will enter the Partnership for Peace. Let me remind you, four and a half years ago, after the murder of Curuvia, the next day, and that was for Easter, we voted in the Yugoslav Parliament on Monday for partnership, for alliance with Russia and Belarus. Now these allies are in partnership for peace, but they don't mind presenting it to the public. And why don't you ask your allies now to either come out for our benefit or accept us there. They like to manipulate that data, it doesn't bother me, but for the sake of the public, it would be good to remember everything they've done to us. I probably can't convert them to vote, but I think Mr. Democrats, I won't keep you any longer, because I'd like us all to be brief, so to finish this discussion, I haven't seen any valid reason why I haven't seen the Democrats vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7039	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7040	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, let's start from the assumption that it is in principle necessary to respect some basic methodological principles, that they properly connect with economic, social, market, fiscal, financial and numerous other constants and variables in the appropriate methodological model, to bring this into line with a comprehensive macroeconomic policy, etc., and to form, above all, a budget to be primarily efficient and in the service of macroeconomic policy. Then the fact that we meet again after six months with the budget issue unequivocally shows that his creator, current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is only an amateur in an attempt and that Serbian citizens are also hostages to mutually party conditions of coalition partners supporting the government. The budget rebalance was extorted, according to the SRS, because representatives of the IMF and other financial organisations and institutions brought their numerous and sharp objections to the budget and conditioned further co-operation with our country's correction. Of course, all this wouldn't have happened if there had been a little more hearing about what the SRS MPs had said six months ago on the Finance Committee as their remarks brought to Mladjan Dinkic. Neither then nor now, in our opinion, the budget provides stable growth and a coherent development of businesses, which was primarily meant to be a fundamental goal. Neither then nor now, the budget is based on real values, either in the part of budget revenues or in the part of budget expenditures. This is not only about scope, height and structure, but rather about approximate sizes. The rebalanced budget continues to generate high budget spending, net domestic borrowing, we have a transformation in the draft budget, in fact the net domestic borrowing becomes a net domestic funding. So let's hide how much we owe and ugly. Now we have a different term that is easier to swallow or behind it can hide something for an ordinary listener or reader. The resilient amount is 18.3 billion dinars and this will certainly be a great job, but not for our budget, not for the citizens of Serbia, but for business banks, or creditors. From the budget's explanation, according to us, there are absolutely no allegations concerning Section Two, the reasons for the proposed funds needed by the budget users, and it says that in the first nine months there has been a significant recovery of the economy. Minister Dinkic wants to suggest that we are not even aware that we are doing well in the economy and that it cannot be better, that it is the right thing to do is to make economic boom. Then we ask the question, why does the IMF delegation, which, behind well-closed doors and scarce information from that meeting, call for the alert of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia for overindebtedness, double-digit inflation, almost seven billion dollars of a projected external trade deficit by the end of the year. This is an unrecorded deficit in the country's recent economic history and there are many other serious warnings from domestic and foreign businessmen and experts. Furthermore, the minister explained that this year he expects gross social product to grow from 7% to 9%. Instead of a comment that could be seen as ominous, I think it would be better for the minister and his assistants to consult the same consultants in various projects of the National Bank of Serbia, such as Miladin Kovacevic, Stojan Stamenkovic and others, who are headed by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Economic Institute or some other institution of trust, first of all, the Government, whose figures are not even close to these beautiful dreams of Minister Dinkic. It explains that the growth of industrial production has also been significantly affected by the growth of efficiency in sectors that have been privatised so far, with 10% increase in production. What do we have in these privatized companies? We have strikes due to attempted fraud, unfulfilled contracts, months of or even years of unpaid salaries, constant threats to the layoffs of workers, private armies in the security of these companies, etc. What is most insulting, in addition to the fundamental untruth that is suggested as truth, the elemental irrationality, suggests as logic, is in fact a painful fact which the minister speaks of as a major success of this budget, economic policy and the Serbian government, is that in the first six months of this year, the number of unemployed persons has been reduced by 21,000. On this occasion, no one, of course, mentions it, and the minister dares not say that 30% of the unemployed is a working-skilled population, and unofficially and 40 percent, which is why we are in an unremarkable first place in Europe. I suppose this information from the mouth of Minister Dinkic would be public harassment or there is no place on his pedestal to mention there about a million and a half people without a job. In our opinion, for Serbia, this budget rebalance has profound economic and social consequences. We have been constantly warning since 2000 that there is no reform on the horizon, nor adequate, or realistic programme visions in the longer term. First of all, I mean the system and foreign borrowing policy, certain financial arrangements, external borrowing costs and conditions of access to financial markets, reducing the external trade deficit, reviving production, reducing unemployment, regulating agriculture, increasing economic growth, a more favourable economic and social situation for citizens and their families. In these conditions, when all this is missing, it's preying on the worst, and that's inflation. The essence of the rebalancing proposal may not even be to meet the IMF's requirements and to continue credit ino-loaning, the threat of adopting rebalancing relations with the London Club, but above all to transform Dinkic's budget from what it represented, social and developmental, into destruction. It is already clear that Serbia is heading towards a complete economic breakdown and that, if this continues, this breakdown will happen. The attempt to make this rebalancing conditions by increasing the pension fund's donations for half a pension sounds pretty malignancy and politics, given that we had a decrease of 12.7% in 2002, and 5.2% we had two years ago. Furthermore, budget rebalancing has the greatest impact on the military. Individuals from the military believe there will be a stalemate in the necessary modernisation of the military, endangering the work of military production, reducing funds directly affecting the battle effort, halting or suspending imports of necessary spare parts for equipment. It will likely stop with the further construction of those 500 apartments in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. The works are under way, and these apartments are already assigned to military personnel. Fund cuts will have a negative impact on the standard of living of soldiers and elders, and it is unlikely that the salary increase agreement will be reached by 15%. The reduction of military funds will directly affect the military's start-up reorganisation. Let us mention that only by the end of the year is the reorganisation of the Ministry and General Staff. Of course, the question is whether this is a new government strategy towards the military, and it is, in all likelihood, because the budget shows absolutely everything, so what is the policy of a single state in all segments of society. The SRS will make a number of other arguments why it will not vote for this budget rebalance. Independent of all the negative indicators and tendencies, as well as the dreary future based on them, the existing government, at the cost of further catastrophic effects, is trying to deceive and deceive the public, citizens, state, economy and other entities that it is, by God's hand, the only successful in Serbia's recent history, that it has failed in the last 200 years. Of course, that's what he's trying to get through as a thesis with the explanation of this budget rebalancing, but what we all feel and what all Serbian citizens feel both in their homes and in their jobs, and the various statements that we have so far been able to hear in public from responsible people from the government, as it is about buying cars and reducing the age of cars that can be imported to three years: "Who doesn't have the money to buy a younger car from three years old shouldn't even drive a car." Believe it to be a virus received, so now college professors say to kids, "Who doesn't have the money to buy books, doesn't need to study." As long as it takes us all, we'll have a chance to see. We sincerely hope that these negative consequences of this economic policy that has been going on for five years will be stopped very quickly, thanks to a disease called G17 plus and the fact that all economic flows are entrusted to one government-supported political party, which means that all of this leads to one anarchy and uncontrollable follow-up to all economic flows in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7041	The People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7042	Dear colleagues, the chairman, Mr. Minister, I would like to start by looking back at the presentations of my predecessor colleagues. I will paraphrasise my colleague, Mr. Vlahovic, says -- the opening of the previous government's affairs drove investors away. I am now interested in whether this is what the former minister recommends to his government by covering up affairs, or favouring those who hide those who cheat against those who point to thieves and those who cheat. You also boast that the budget deficit in the fourth quarter last year, which amounted to 18 billion dinars, was covered by real revenues. Wasn't it better to invest these real revenues in some incentive programmes so you wouldn't respect this government for not having an incentive budget and recommending yourself to a successful model, selling successful businesses? You're also asking this government to transform public enterprises, the ones we inherited from you. Now something about the proposed budget changes. We have before us a proposal to rebalance the budget towards reducing the deficit. The deficit means the lack of money in the budget. This bill is heading towards reducing the budget deficit. A decrease in the budget deficit from 45.3 billion to 32.7 billion means the deficit will be at 2.3% of the gross national product by the end of the year. Last year, the budget deficit was around 4% of the gross national product. To join the European Community is the criterion that the deficit is below 3%. This proposed rebalancing recommends us to the EU. How have savings been achieved? The spending on the state union of six billion has been reduced, but so stability, security, the country's security is not at risk. Subsidies for non-financial and financial institutions are reduced. In agriculture, it saves on two programmes, improving the quality of milk and improving agricultural holdings, but by not starting these projects for objective reasons. Of course, no one reduces the giving for agriculture, but for real reasons, and we expect farmers to head towards their country, as the state has resolved the bag to farmers. They should move towards these development projects and engage the funds that are intended for them. Subsidies for losers are being reduced. Some are privatized, and the rest are headed towards finding strategic partners. It saves on investments, in building and maintaining government facilities. The volume of purchase of machinery and equipment for ministries is reduced, there is no more justified way to save. What items in the budget are increasing? Retirement and unemployment benefits, social security benefits, first-war payments to the London Club. Somebody say something against these items. What are the positive consequences? The problem of the external trade deficit is mitigated, macroeconomic stability is maintained, economic growth is allowed to increase, economic investment is stimulated, as the reduction of public spending recommends our country as favourable to investment. It is possible to regularly serve pensions and social benefits. What are the consequences of the non-election? The end of the contract with the London Club, possible loss of write-off – 15% of the Paris Club, from the debt of Paris creditors. A three-year arrangement with the IMF is at stake and what is now expected is the inability to pay off half of the pensions in December and the entire December payment for the social body of claims. The G17 plus party invites you to support changes and budget rebalances, which is unique by proposing a deficit reduction. Anyone who votes against this bill actually votes to remain a budget deficit of 45.3 billion instead of 32.7 billion. I ask you, which one of you chooses to make the state longer for us. I think he should explain it to his voters first.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7043	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7044	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, first of all, let me say that in my address to the Assembly, I made it clear that this year's growth rate will be about 9% and I explained the causes, that is, the sources of that growth. I didn't say for a second that the opening of the affair drove the investors away. On the contrary, I said that the coalition that came to power today thanks to the Aferian politics, the political, the demagogue, the populist promises that could not be realised later and, among other things, the dramatic decline in political ratings of these parties. I think it should be a lesson to all political parties, not to try to make the election promises that cannot be fulfilled come to a greater number of votes, but to come out with an honest political, economic and clear platform that they intend to implement later. As for the source for last year's deficit coverage, it's true, the sources are defined by the so-called. real funds and that's the important difference between the deficits we're discussing today and the 2003 deficit, and that's a huge difference. If you don't have real resources to cover the deficit, you risk pushing the country into an inflation spiral. That's what we talked about in March, when we warned that the budget as proposed couldn't survive, and then we said that it was an attempt to translate the populist promises into one piece of paper and to offer the people the paper that you all knew in advance that it couldn't be realised, because in March, the IMF warned that the deficit had to be at a level of 30 billion. You knew that, but you still wanted to vote on such a budget, although 20 days later an agreement was reached with the IMF to reduce the budget. It is not good to accuse the opposition of not voting rebalancing in this year's pensioners not being paid half their pension, the responsibility for it is borne exclusively by the government with its economic policy, as it is not good that the people here are afraid by the words that non-election of rebalancing will lead to an interruption of co-operation with the IMF. That is not true, as it is not true that not voting rebalancing means undoing what has been achieved with the London Club. I explained that there are sources for that. As for the potential investment of real resources for growth, the point was to create stable institutions, to create a macroeconomic environment, and as you worked to create stable institutions, the best example of today's situation at the Privatisation Agency is six months ago, whether today is stronger, humanised, more capable compared to the situation before March. Of course not. (President: Time.) ) The fact that despite the reform laws prepared last year by the last government, you today do not have institutions that have to operate on these laws, I wonder what about the Agency for Licensing Banks, what about the Agency for Registration of Businesses. Since February 1st, we will have laws we won't be able to apply because there are no institutions. We passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. What about the board? The coalition in power broke the law at the outset, as no committee has yet been established to operationalise the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. That's all the results. Only one who wants to distort what I've been saying and what the previous government has done can find justification for what is being done today in a rebalancing discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7045	On what basis are you looking for a word? (Branka Bosnjak: Article 97, I feel misread. Here you go, no, looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This isn't a replica on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7046	I think I might be able to mention a few injured members here, but I feel like a wrongly interpreted MP, Article 97. I'd like to ask you to consult my stenographic notes, and when my previous speaker was the other day, I think Thursday, he spoke, and I'm going to quote this time, I'm not going to paraphrase anymore. He says the opening of an affair of the previous government has driven investors away. Now you've completely misread me and twisted your own words. Also, the second part of my speech was reversed and completely misread or misquoted. You said that here, from this pay phone, someone is afraid that there will be no more negotiations with the IMF. Now I quote myself, I said, it's a three-year arrangement with the IMF. (Tomislav Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7047	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, why you tolerate the violations of the Rules of Procedure by the ruling majority. If the People's Messenger caused a replica, he can't go out for a pay phone again, and he's replicating whoever's replicating him. Article 97 is a right to replication and you, ma'am, have abused the Rules of Procedure. You went out here to replicate again, and you have no right to do business. That you were misread, that was his right to the line, not yours. Here, in this assembly again, the ruling majority can do whatever they want, and MPs from the opposition can't do anything. It's a harshly injured Rules of Procedure. Let's make a deal, let's replicate each other as much as we have will and energy, or respect the Rules of Procedure completely. You have changed this Rules of Procedure yourself, you have abolished the right to reply to the replica. You said, an MP and one who has a replica, and there's nothing left. What does that mean? Now you later remembered what else you were supposed to say. Of course, you'll put it to a vote in the voting day, it will pass that no injured Rules of Procedure. There's a lot of things you can vote on here. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, much rougher than when the session is late an hour and a half, much rougher than when the minister is not here in the morning, is much rougher than when there is no Government, and the budget is being discussed. Here, the ruling majority MP has been given the right to pass the Rules of Procedure and it is not called democracy. You've fallen out of the democratic bloc. What block are you in now when you're out of the democratic?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7048	Mr. Nikolic, Article 97(3) allows the chairman to assess when he will give his word. You need to know that when I run the sessions, I'm giving you both a replica to come up with a full right to say what you want. If you want to cut to the chase, then, indeed, many of you didn't have the right to replicate, so they went out more than once. Otherwise, you are right if you really had a strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, it would have really ended with one replica and nothing more. Thank you. The minister asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7049	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to clarify some things. Here, several MPs of the DS, here's the former minister now out, saying they spoke in March, warned they wouldn't be able to achieve this budget. It turns out the government's mistake is to rebalance some expenditures that couldn't have been predicted in March. It turns out, as if the previous government had never worked a single budget rebalance. When the former privatisation minister said he spoke in March that a different budget must be made, as he said a few days ago, I also consulted the stenographic notes, then Mr. Vlahovic said the revenues of the budget would not be realised by the planned dynamics. As you have seen in this rebalancing, budget revenues do not change at all. We made the revenues exactly as we projected them. However, we could not predict some expenses. We didn't know that we would succeed in July, fortunately, to make a deal with the London Club and to get $1.7 billion written off, and that this agreement would mean, as a sign of good faith, that this year we would pay $40 million by the end of October. We couldn't predict that expenditure, and that's why we're doing budget rebalance today. I know that the previous government may have been carrying out some of the expenditure without rebalance, so I'm asking the question, how last December 2.5 billion dinars were paid to BK companies, and there was no budget item at all, budgeted to minus. We're doing rebalancing if we can't predict some expenses. I know the government didn't exist back then, but that payment shouldn't have happened because there wasn't a budget item. The fact that the government didn't exist is no excuse. When you say about certain things that you warned us about, that the IMF had warned, etc., so a year had not reached an agreement with the IMF since July of last year, it was finally reached by this government in late May, that is, in June of this year. Why are you talking about us having a problem with the IMF, when we orderly implement that arrangement and have the support of this most important international financial institution. Your government has had a problem with that institution in the last year. Just to remind the MPs, it would be an impression that when Mr Vlahovic and his colleagues from the DS say that the previous government had no rebalancing, I will remind you, in December 10, you rebalanced the budget by predicting the total revenues of 180.7 billion in 2002, and you achieved less. So you've been rebalanced for income cuts, exactly what you've been warning us now, that we're not going to make any revenue. Your government didn't make the estimated revenues in 2002, so it had to go to rebalance, because instead of 180.7 billion were achieved 4 billion less, 176.7. Then that 2002 deficit, which was planned by budget to 38.8 billion, rebalancing that you did on 10 December 2002, increased to 40.7 billion. So you've increased the deficit. At the time, it didn't bother you to increase the deficit, and now that this government is reducing the deficit due to some unforeseen expenditure, then you have, of course, the right to criticise politically, but you have no professional arguments to do so. Also, in March 2003, you were doing rebalancing, preparing rebalancing on October 14th and handing over the draft to the Assembly in 2003. So last year, even two rebalances. I just want to say that you should be telling the truth and the economic facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7050	Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, head of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7051	Mr. Vlahovicu, you must, as the minister said a moment ago, reach out for political arguments when you attack budget rebalances because you do not have these others. When you reach out to political arguments, you get a little carried away, you go one step further and then you simply project your behaviour from 2002 and 2003 on these people who are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia today and who make up the congregation majority. That's where you forgot one thing. How do we take down the system's institutions? Well, you've destroyed the system's institutions, you're responsible for stopping the reform of those two years. You didn't do anything, you didn't do anything for the benefit of this country for the past two years. This assembly has passed over 40 laws on the proposal of this same government that you are attacking. How many laws did you pass in 2003? How much have you brought for the last two years, 2002 and 2203? How many times have we had to go out and harass the citizens to go to elections for the President of the Republic, which you have obstructed? What happened to the Serbian Parliament? It was the only Assembly in the universe that didn't know how many MPs there were thanks to you, and you dare tell someone today that they're destroying the institutions of the system and that you're linking it to the budget rebalancing story. This budget rebalance is necessary for the citizens of this country to survive, so that we can enter in a balanced way in the preparation of the new budget, but it is your political right. When you use that political right, you'd have to be careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7052	Mr. Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7053	Mr. Chairman, I'm looking for six minutes. Three minutes of replica because I was mentioned by Mr. Dinkic and three minutes because I was misread by Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7054	Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7055	First of all, let me tell Mr. Aligrudic, I didn't say that you were tearing down institutions, and I don't know why you recognized each other. I just said that the capacities of the institutions are significantly reduced, different, delegated where it's most important and, among other things, that's why you have today's budget rebalance debate. As for the recent presentation of Mr. Minister, I said in March that revenue in the budget would be less than planned and that is correct. If you are looking at nominally, you have the same income as you planned in March, but if you have the assumption that inflation is 4% higher than what you planned in March, that gross social product will be at least twice as much as what you planned in March, you are in fact less income, less public income, because the base has increased nominally and realistically, and you are essentially making the same projected revenues from March. So, Mr. Dinkic, I was absolutely right when I said the projected revenues in March were completely unrealistic. As for paying for the London Club, let's put a stop to it. Since it was an unforeseen cost, you didn't plan it in March, you could have made that payment from the budget reserve. That amount is 2.4 billion and I don't understand why you're reducing the budget reserve by more than necessary to pay the debt to the London Club. As far as the IMF is concerned, I wasn't talking about you having a problem. That's what Mr. Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, spoke of, who even accused the IMF of refusing to agree to the level of budget deficit planned for political reasons. If the press misquoted him, then I'm lying to you, like in that folk song. It seems to me that it was quoted correctly, although it preceded a statement that talks with the IMF would be small, that it would end quickly, etc. How quickly it ended up witnessing the fact that talks with the IMF are still going on. As for the rebalancing, that we have increased the deficit by rebalance, it is true that we have had several rebalances since 2001, and that is the usual thing, but it is not the usual thing to do with the rebalancing of expenditure, when you have a mechanism that you do not have to bother the MPs or the Assembly. You can simply reduce the implementation of budget positions to get to the level of expenditure you accept. We rebalanced the deficit, that's true, because we had larger real resources to cover that deficit, more precisely because we were successfully working on that field where real sources are sought, and these are donations, these are the revenues from privatisation. Why was that? Because we had international credibility, because donors believed in the government that worked since 2000 and because the privatisation revenues were the result of a successful privatisation policy. If you say today - we have nothing to sell, that Vlahovic sold everything before, that's not true, you deny yourself. You say that in August and September you made 1,700,000 of the total revenues achieved. If you'd kept that dynamic from March, you'd have made 15,000,000,000 revenues from privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7056	Which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7057	I'm advertising a misapplication of article 97. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Vlahovic responded to the replica of the minister, and he had no rights to my presentation, because my replica was a replica to him. That's what I'm talking about. And as for Mr Vlahovic, we did not recognize ourselves, Mr Vlahovic, in you, but thanks to your words we recognized you again, as the citizens of Serbia will recognize you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7058	Mr. Vlahovic, called for article 97. You couldn't get a replica on the line. That's what they said. We'll go on forever to make replicas. If I give you my word, Mr. Aligrudic will return. Here you go, and that'll be the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7059	Mr. Aligrudic, as the people recognized us, you could see in June when the presidential elections were held, you could see how much your candidate got, and how much was won by the Democratic Party candidate, today's president of Serbia. As the people recognized our policy, and as they recognized your policy you could see in the local elections, where the Democratic Party won a convincing first place and became the strongest political party. Therefore, there is no need to explain to the people how we did and how you did. The people know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7060	An injury to a 100th member to whom Mr Aligrudic is called.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7061	Mr. Vlahovic spoke offensively of the MP majority of the DSS mentioning their President Vojislav Kostunica. You must know one thing, Mr. Vlahovic, that your success in June was, among other things, because one system institution was finally created, which the DSS stood for. It's a principled attitude, and it's very practical. Boris Tadic would never have won in June if he had not been supported by the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7062	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7063	I would like to clarify finally why we have to go to budget rebalances to pay for this tranche to the London Club, and why we couldn't, as Mr. Vlahovic says, use the current budget reserve. First, it's true that we're reducing this rebalancing current budget reserve by 2.7 billion dinars, but if we use all that to pay off that tranche to the London Trustor Club by the end of October, we're going to leave a zero budget without a current reserve in the last two months. I don't blame you for that, you weren't the finance minister, but leaving the zero budget is irresponsible. You know that there can always be some extraordinary expenditure and that argument that it didn't have to be a budget rebalance, but that the current reserve pays to the London Club doesn't stand, because then the budget would have a zero current budget reserve. Two months without a current budget reserve is irresponsible to the people, because something can always pop up as an emergency expenditure. As far as income is concerned, you know that our tax revenues are far higher than what was planned. The expenditure will be 307 billion this year, more than we planned in the original budget. We have 21% growth compared to the same period last year. Our non-tax revenues are lower than planned, but those basic revenues, which are the result of the work of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance, are significantly higher than we are in the budget plan, but because of the lower non-tax revenues, which do not depend at all on the tax administration, we will achieve the same revenues we have planned. I note that you failed to make your income in 2001 as planned, but lower. Secondly, however, Mr. Vlahovicu, in the end, you are an economist, how can you say that increasing the budget deficit is the success of anyone. You said, success is, we had 41 billion in 2001, 43 billion in 2003; so what a success it was, no matter what higher incomes they were. Instead of saving, that money was spent only in one quarter before the election, a 18 billion deficit was made, I mean the 2003 elections. If the revenues were higher, they weren't because now I don't know how supersonic your Ministry worked compared to the current ones, but in 1,400 million foreign investments you had income from the sale of three companies, two tobacco industries and Beopetrol. It doesn't have to be very wise, so make so much income on the sale of such enterprises. It is clear to you that there are far less attractive companies left to sell and privatize. This year, foreign and direct investments will be $890m. That's right, it's lower than last year, but this year there's no privatization of the Nis tobacco industry, the Vranj tobacco industry, and there's no privatisation of Beopetrol. I just want, Mr. Vlahovic, to speak in an economic dictionary when we talk about budget rebalancing, and when some other topics are here on the agenda, then you should also use a political dictionary. When it comes to budget rebalancing, we are now reducing deficits, reducing public spending, and that can only be good for the economy. Your problem is that you cannot explain to your voters why you will not support such a rebalancing and why you are questioning the arrangement with the London Club, pension payments and unemployment benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7064	Mr. Vlahovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as for the privatisation of DIN and DIV, which was done last year, I can only say that happiness is alive, otherwise, in the existing structure of government, especially local authorities, it seems to me that the time from before 1996, 1995, when property was stretched by hand and hat, and privatisation would never occur. Is it easy to sell, consult the case, perhaps the largest cigarette factory in the Balkans "Bulgar Tabak". They've been unsuccessfully trying to privatise the Bulgar Tabak for ten years. And that means you have to have regulation, that you have to have institutions, that you have to have a strategy, and then you have to go into privatisation. We had all of this and that's why privatisation was the most successful and, among other things, if you didn't know, it entered one of the ten most successful privatisations ever made in Europe. As far as the budget deficit is concerned, it is true that I said, we had a larger budget deficit because we had real resources to cover the budget deficit, but you, Mr Dinkic, know that the budget deficit, among other things, is a development policy element; the greater the deficit, the better the instrument for stimulating the economy; therefore, it was through increasing personal consumption, if your economy is already restructured, or through increasing public investment, unless you have a restructured economy. If you have a smaller deficit, then there's nothing from the development budget. If you were to be honest here and say, it's okay, we tried in March to translate our populist promises, the demagogue from the pre-election campaign, we failed, we misjudged, now we're going back from some kind of development budget to a pure social, to a social budget, and that's that. Then we might know that we appreciate the honesty that you're supposed to say here, not that under the light of completely different projections, completely different assumptions, you're rebalancing it again as a development document that needs to contribute to a stable growth in the economy. This isn't the development budget. If you have a higher deficit, if you have real resources to cover the deficit, then maybe you will boost public investment. If that's not there, if the deficit is small, then there's the end of the story of any development budget. And that's what this is about. That's all we from the DS are trying to warn you, and in that case for no time, it's not going to use any other argument, except for that professional economic argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7066	The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snježana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7067	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget rebalancing debate will begin unusually for a debate in the Assembly on any part of the agenda, which does not refer to here's favorite sport of mutual replicas or whatever, which is quoting parts of its own March discussion. So, quote, so from March, and the MPs are getting -- how you quote yourself, and I stressed that it's unusual, but it's necessary. "As there is no agreement with the IMF... "The Messenger of the people casts away. He deserves others to quote you. Don't worry, just wait. The messenger of the people comes out of the hall, the messenger of the people is a fresh grandfather, he comes out of the hall. So, in March, it was said: "Because there is no agreement with the IMF, I will remind you that it would be good to have that agreement, and if it is not there, then in a hundred days in this same assembly we will have a rebalance of this budget and, reading the stenograms of MPs, MPs' groups of DS, we will remind that we have spoken the truth, and it is unpleasant, because the budget is pre-election, the budget is not developmental, the draft budget pays rises above the possibilities, and when the salaries rise above the possibilities, then the demand does not cover the goods, and the trade deficit increases. That's what all those in the government know, and they all know how it ends. If inflation is envisaged and inflation is talked about between 7.5% and 8%, and if they have a statement by the finance minister of 9.8%, it would be good for this assembly to give the Serbian citizens a response to how much inflation they can really expect. We regret to say that we do not have a reform budget and that we do not have a team that has the courage to do what must be done with the 2004 budget. This is a reduction in public spending, restructuring of public enterprises, with all the painful consequences that these two decisions entail in the short term, but with all the good consequences that these two decisions in the spirit of the budget mean in the long term. "Why am I bothering you with quotes? Because we are all MPs here who control the government of the Republic of Serbia and the work of individual ministries. The finance minister didn't do the job. So in March he showed up with a draft budget, which he nicknamed to be developmental, agrarian, that it was investmental, and it turned out not to be true. Why would the National Assembly trust that this minister has credibility within the government, or that he has credibility in this assembly. This isn't about any event. This is about the spirit of the budget adopted in March by MPs here having the information they have and now, the budget rebalance is for one simple reason, which is the requirement, so how many percent of the budgets per international institutions, such as the IMF, can be a deficit, and that's what we said. So that's all it is. It can't be 3.7, it has to be 2.8. What we're looking for in March is, let's deal with it right now so you can continue the arrangement with the IMF, nothing more and nothing less. The story is now repeated that the minister continues to argue which is populist, which has nothing to do with what is happening in the budget and which does not give an argument for anything but the fact that DS MPs were telling the truth in March. Why am I talking about the Council and the Minister's responsibilities? Because the finance minister is the hardest in one government, there is no more difficult position, in any government, and especially in the country's changing government. Any government is there to conceive politics and say -- the budget will be mostly on social responsibility, mostly on investment, mostly just to fill in, as we know and know, excessive demands, social demands of the population. And the finance minister is here to say - the government can't do that. The question is whether he can get past it inside the government or not. So, this kind of rebalancing, when we all knew everything in March, is not common rebalancing, which goes through changes in economic parameters and which are planned and expected. This kind of rebalancing tells us from opposition to two things: firstly, or the minister has enormous difficulties to explain to the government what can be done by this policy that the government has economical concepts, if any; or the minister does not know how to do his job and propose it to the Assembly. For both of these reasons, whichever is correct, if asked as a question, the National Assembly simply has to discuss in the most serious way possible what is proposed to it as a budget rebalance. What was repeated by what we said as a party in March. We have a problem in Serbia that we think anything in any sphere of society, economics, health care, military, security, however you want, can be done, without everything being clear on the same day as who does, why does, how much it costs and who pays. We have this problem simply because of the degree of development of mutual relations between institutions, political parties, whatever you want. The amount of budget deficits the minister was supposed to settle here, if he hasn't already succeeded in the government, he can always. I repeat that I know that the finance minister, along with the military minister, is in a country that changes the two most difficult positions you can have when the country is in transition. But if the minister can't reach an agreement in the government, because he can't, because they say -- I don't care, I want to do this much for my ministry, I want you to do this, and you, Ministers, pack up how you know and you can, then it's the minister's obligation to come to the Assembly, to come to parliamentary groups to say this -- I'm defending this, but let's do this in the Assembly an idea of what amendments we could do in March that we have a budget deficit below 3% and that we have a deal with the IMF. We don't understand these things, and we don't know how to use them together. What's the basic reason besides having to have below 3% of the budget deficit? Apparently reduced or non-existent credibility of the government or the minister when it comes to the IMF. If it were not for that, international financial organisations would allow, as is allowed sometimes, budget failures, under the control that we will be below 3% with the budget deficit. And that's the topic we need to talk about here. I think we should meet together at a job to get out of something that I think is, to end, that it's a very lively society in Serbia. I'm not a fan of conspiracy theory, and I'll never believe conspiracy theory, because I believe human will is something that controls processes. But in the theory of corruption, I believe, in association for the sake of corruption and the act of corruption I believe, they are not sanctioned by laws of non-existent moral norms, they are not illegal and unfortunately we have a lot of procedures, events, even ideas that arise just to make some or some other mistake, and not to make a common good. The DS parliamentary group will not vote for budget rebalancing, not because of economic parameters, not because the minister was irresponsible six months ago, not because the government has no economic policy, but because this assembly is the place where such things would be agreed. So, with the apology again for quoting our discussions from March of the month, we ask you not to force us as an opposition to quote these discussions when you enter the 2005 budget. It's supposed to happen already. On October 1st 2004, the 2005 budget had to be in front of the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. Under the Law on the Budget System on 1 April, the budget had to be made under the Budget System Act. Simply, in the name of removing all the things that make up the theories of corruption, I ask that we behave in the manner of the Parliament that follows a government in transition in agreement with the 2005 budget. So, the minister to tour parliamentary groups, both opposition and ruling, and to find solutions in agreement with these parliamentary groups that agree with both IMF protocols and with real ecnomial parameters in society; and most importantly, with the will of the majority in the Assembly. If that is not the case, we, along with all the protests of lawmakers, who happily became grandfathers, will have to quote again the discussions we had in October 2004 in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7068	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let Igor Mirovic be prepared; he is not there. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7069	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, in the desire to calm this tumultuous, political and detailed economic discussion a little bit, given that Serbian citizens are not always on economic debates and that there are clearly two economic concepts in this case, I would like to sum up briefly the reasons why it is necessary to vote for this rebalancing. First of all, this is a rebalancing that, no doubt, provides further economic growth. Economic growth is a fact in this country this year, and we can find it with great satisfaction, regardless of some objections that might be called depraved, although I am reluctant to use this word, that economic growth has occurred because it rained or with the help of the minister of religion, or such elements. So, economic growth exists, and that is what I want to inform the public of Serbia once more. Furthermore, this is a budget rebalancing that will ensure further macroeconomic stability, reducing external trade and payment deficits. This is a budget rebalance that reduces public spending, and thus opens up investment space once more. This is a budget rebalance that will allow Serbia to continue implementing the arrangement with the IMF, to repay its debts and thus reaffirm its re-emergence in the society of normal European countries and the countries of the United Nations. Could it have been predicted that the rebalancing would occur? It couldn't be predicted, because it's not true, some arguments just don't stand here. By simple calculation, I've come up with the following digits. As for the privatisation revenues, which we know to be completely unfulfilled by any single dinar by August, perhaps some parliamentary group could have predicted that there would be no dinars of privatisation, but indeed this government did not consider that, on its arrival, it was necessary to change all people in the state administration and all people in public institutions. We had an idea that people would keep doing their job, but that didn't happen. The moment steps were taken and changes in the area also increased privatisation revenues. So far, they've been achieved with 1.7 billion, and by the end of the year, it's supposed to be 5.5 billion, and that's already starting to make that less than 11 billion, which we're talking about. London Club 2.4 billion and, as we had the opportunity to hear from the finance minister, an additional 4.4 billion that were not shown by the previous government. Unfortunately. All of this already makes up about 17.8 billion, according to my rough and lay accounts, and thus creates a deficit that couldn't have been foreseen in the beginning. Could this have been covered in a different way? Most likely it could, but the citizens of Serbia must face the government here who is ready to share with them everything that is going on. So the finance ministry could, like some previous governments and previous ministries, cover all this and in a different way, say, by borrowing from the NBS, loans, some donations. It is clear that Serbia cannot live forever on donations, and it is clear, of course, that the donation is getting smaller and smaller. We are proud that without donations it will be better and that Serbia will be able to cover its own costs. Furthermore, we were able to raise taxes and thus change the investment climate, and of course it's not an idea. So there was no such possibility. This is a responsible government, which wants to share everything that is happening with its citizens. This is the finance ministry, which comes before Serbian citizens and shares with them the responsibility for performing public functions. (President: Please bring the end. Time's up. Why is this budget good, as far as I'm concerned? He's good at not jeopardizing his development component, because it reduces public spending. I'd like to mention two more things. We have heard remarks about additional allocations for NGOs and that this is something to be criticised. Does anyone want to criticise the fact that additional funds are being allocated to the Alliance of the Blind, Alliance of Deaf and Deaf, the Union of Associations to Help mentally underdeveloped persons, the Alliance for Cerebral and Children's Paralysy, etc. These are, ladies and gentlemen, these NGOs, whom someone is so afraid of. In addition, as far as southern Serbia is concerned, I would like to point out that Serbian citizens have a proposal from the finance ministry, which, with 1.7 billion in addition, will support projects that are being implemented in partnership with international organisations in the south, primarily with the CHF and the UNDP. It's those investments that are 80% supported by international organisations, and 20% were meant to single out local self-governments. Unfortunately, they did not do so fully. (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded the time of minute and a half.) So these are those projects where local authorities are very happy to take pictures and are very happy to criticise the government and the Ministry of Finance. These are street projects, reconstruction of kindergartens, schools, etc. So I have concretely all these projects and I will gladly present them to the citizens of Serbia. I really had a very short time, and I apologize for perhaps overstepping it, but I think it is quite clear that Serbian citizens should support this rebalancing, and that their representatives in this higher house should also support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7070	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you showed up at 12.20 p.m. These replicas and this conflict you had with Mr. Vlahovic from the pay phone, you were able to end it all on Friday night on TV "Politika". You told the truth back then, and today, you told each other about each other. You were not good even when you were their staff, when you were governor of NBJ, and then NBS, DOS in power, with Vlahovic at the head of the ministry that committed an enormous robbery of our businesses, as you today did not make a good choice by Vojislav Kostunica, which we warned him about on the day he submitted the exposures as prime minister for the government's assembly in this assembly. If you remember what the MPs of the SRS said and what warnings the Kostunicas sent, it was mostly about you personally, starting with my smallness, through the heads of our parliamentary group and everyone else. Our clear warning was that, in addition to a very delicate situation in which the state is located, because of the lack of understanding of what national and state unity was, and it was later proved that we were right through the events in March of the month, the survival of our countrymen in the southern province. The second and key aspect of your rule and wandering around for months on end, headed by Kostunica, with you as one of the ministers in that government, is the economic and social position of our fellow citizens. I really cannot accept and understand, as a mere observer, and not as an MP, how you can perform with so much confidence to promote this kind of budget rebalancing proposal, when you know that they are one, so other choices have shown that you have no foothold in the people and that citizens do not trust you. If they believed more of you as Mladjan Dinkic, as finance minister, as some expert in the area, you would have been better off in the elections and it would have been shown that this policy that you advocate is something that citizens accept. So, as a few months go by, you're going through more and more, and then you're completely confidently suggesting something that's not acceptable to us. Vlahovic suggested that you make the payment of the debt from the current budget reserves. That I'm right when I say that neither he nor the DS he's now personifying here, then as some independent expert-minister, really has a basis for that, because your former friend and former Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic's manner was to, say, from current budget reserves, 600,000 at first, and then 1,300,000 to finance RTS. What says Vlahovic - when we could do it, to transfer it, we resented it, both to him and to that government, because of the great deficit, from one item to another, why can't we? Budget and budget policy, fiscal policy, public spending reduction policy, which we also warned about when Kostunica submitted the exposures, so you with the draft budget came here, were not balanced with you. The fact that you have now come into this situation and become entangled as a chicken in the house does not give us the appeal that we need to help you with something that we have sharply criticised. I understand how many parliamentary majority, because the issue of voting this rebalancing is also the question of your survival. Mr. Minister, you said that if the Assembly doesn't vote this rebalancing that you have proposed, you will no longer be in that position. On the other hand, the delicate issue is both in front of Kostunica himself and the government with such a fluctuating majority. Our warnings were addressed back then to Kostunica because you are his poor choice and because we would not have this project at all, we would not have the Assembly this problem and the citizens would not have this problem, not because you are the minister, but because the government should have looked quite different. The DSS MPs are angry, especially their head of the parliamentary group who is not here at the moment, when we tell him -- if he had listened to the advice of Tomislav Nikolic, if it had been done by his president and his party, it would have been much better off, and the more stable would have been the government, where we would have been the headquarters of gathering what is truly a democratic bloc, and not you Quasimocrats, who would have known in a much fairer way to have the resources of citizens. I wouldn't play this game with their totally uncertain fate after eight months of wandering around with you as a minister and with such a Kostunica government. It's totally unacceptable for us, Mr. Dinkic, what's going on right now, and what you're trying to turn into some form of alleged economic development, employment policy. As you said when you explained this rebalancing to us -- "deprive the economy from the recession, continue the enhanced privatisation... ". Why has she been slow all this time, why since the failed candidate of the Martians and his resignations as Minister of Industry, we don't have a minister in that place? You say, "... employment and future investments." All day long, and especially yesterday before the arrival of a group of Italian businessmen, you talk about it and give encouragement and hope to people who might want to turn to something that is our future - small and medium-sized enterprises, that Italian investors are ready. I don't know how many of them at this point to come and start funding through these direct foreign investments, that's not enough at all, because the percentage of those who are unemployed has grown since you came to power. Especially because citizens believed in the presidential election of Boris Tadic, who is now not president of Serbia but president of his DS, with three working days as president of Serbia, that he will immediately start the business, he will receive them, to face their difficulties, new jobs will open. It's not gonna happen. Now what's your biggest problem with this much deficit and the proposed rebalancing? You have drawn up one budget that has to worry about the number of creditors, and on the other hand you face, that's what some colleagues said, and your MPs say about the pay phone, with the inability to get more donations. Who gives you donations when the corruption process is getting bigger and bigger, when even those donors are no longer trusting in your so-called. The democratic bloc, which declares itself to be democratic, and in part it shows that they are not. If you remember your statements when you were promoting the budget that you gave to the press when you left the Assembly Hall in March, the basic thing that you were complaining about – with all those attacks you tried to amortize, that you did not make a good solution, and today we stand at the point that you are not, that you are like the Chamber of the NBJ, or Serbia, and we know how you came to this place, now take over by Kostunica because of the policies of blackmail and accusation – what you were most boasting was the amount planned for agriculture. Then you said - I raised three times in the nominal amount of the agricultural item, both for all users and for subsidies in agriculture, and now they are the first to strike. Do you know how much trouble you've had with the strawberry fruit producers, how long it's been going on, how long this agony has lasted, how much our country has lost because of the fact that Mrs. Pop-Lazic brought out, that we are in an alarming situation because our external trade deficit is seven billion from Djelic's time, from the former DOS government three and a half billion dollars on an annual basis. Now because of such a policy of one-off imports, due to the interest made, due to the policy of the prices being conducted, and also the policy of the dinar course, which you have advocated from the position until you were replaced in this way by Bodrum, by some more flexible approach to the dinar course. And today, for your information, the purchase course is already 76.2. When all this is in mind and in the light of the fact that we have no privatisation, let alone its continuation in the way it should be done, given that you had no ear for the proposals of our Serbian radicals, to take into consideration the existing law that has committed many irregularities, many businesses robbed, people lost their jobs, in February we gave in the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, when it comes to the fact that you do not have feelings for farmers, you are merely declaring that by this budget they have a much greater opportunity to obtain machines and equipment through business banks. They're not our domestic banks, you've personally ruined them. These are foreign banks that operate as domestic and seem to give farmers the opportunity to buy machines and equipment with only 1.5% interest per year on favourable loans. In return, you're looking for a big mortgage, an unguaranteed placement and the fact that you left them hanging. Therefore, we hope and believe, because of your policy and because of the fact that there is nothing more to ask of Labus and that he cannot challenge anyone or speak, and especially Mr Nikolic, who leads the largest parliamentary group in this assembly, what should he do and what his path is. Due to the fact that your former coalition partner behaves as well, and now alleged sharp critics Boris Tadic and DS, we know that 2005 must be decisive. That citizens have indeed chosen to change something fundamentally and to choose a government that does not wander the gaps and that does not go into such risky budgetary corrections, but will be ready and responsible to create opportunities for people to work and earn, not to be social, not to be so hungry and so much poverty, and to make privatisation fairer and for responsible people to be in ministerial posts, above all in the place of the finance minister, create conditions for this country to go on the path of recovery. We really need that. The mere stories, your accusations with Vlahovic, with the rest of the DS, everything you've said about each other is true, you haven't rolled either, the time of the SRS should come, they've also shown local elections that that's the case, I believe in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7072	Here you go, Minister Mladjan Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7073	I don't want to get into your political grades, that's your right. I'm just gonna say what's about the profession, about the economy. First, as far as unemployment is concerned, it was reduced during the government's term of office. It is true that unemployment is the biggest problem of our society, but the fact is that 21,000 people are less unemployed this year than in last year, which is not something we would be proud of, because we need to reduce unemployment more significantly, but it is not true that unemployment is increased either. So unemployment has been reduced by 21,000 people this year. The second incorrect thing you put out is about donations. Donations are coming to our country now, but no budget donations have arrived. Donations have arrived for other projects, of these donations mentioned by Mrs Plasic, related to projects of international organisations, CHF, UNDP, health care etc. As far as the budget is concerned, they did not arrive because the status of relations in the state union between Serbia and Montenegro was not resolved. After accessing the double track, we will also receive these projected 20m euros in donations by the end of the year, as we no longer projected directly for the budget. The third thing that has not been correct in economic terms in this agricultural exposure has so far been paid to about eight billion dinars of subsidized agriculture, of which only for wheat three billion, and that is a billion million dinars of wheat premium. The government has fully fulfilled what it has promised farmers, plus a billion and 300 from the wheat reserve to keep the state safe. So a total of three billion was given for wheat this year, compared to the two billion that the budget envisioned. We gave one billion more for the wheat. As for subsidies, eight billion so far. As you saw, this year, 12 billion will be paid for subsidies, and that's three times more than last year, as I said when I explained the budget. In addition, other items paid a billion and 700 million dinars for short-term loans in agriculture, 28,000 farmers got those loans, they were already realised, 500 million dinars have been paid for long-term loans so far, 265 loans, and another billion needs by the end of the year. I only wanted for the truth to make these facts known, and as far as political evaluations are concerned, you have the right to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7074	Is MP Milan Markovic there? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Masic, and let the MP Milan Stanimirović be prepared. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go, since you're advertising the Rules of Procedure, but you need to know that because of the abandonment and the absence of this order is... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7075	You, the chairman, can't change your rules of procedure whenever you want. Speak in order: one who supports the proposal and then the one who does not support it. You do not have one MP who supports the proposal, you call the other who supports the proposal, and you do not call the radical again, who you know will speak against, and if you need to respect the order, until you exhaust those speakers who are in the minority. I understand when all radicals are left alone, we have the most time, in the end they will speak themselves of radicals. As long as you have registered those who will support the bill, you have to call them. Mr. Stanimirovic has been reported to support the budget, you must call him instead of Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7076	Mr Nikolic, I must tell you that he does not support the budget and that you are wrong, and that the others, other than Mr Stanimirovic, are all MPs from the SRS, so it seemed to you because of the abandonment and non-presence that some order has been disturbed. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7077	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I will focus my focus on some of the funds taken from agriculture through budget rebalancing. I haven't called in a moment ago to replicate to Mr. Secretary, but I hope he will listen to me and he will hear and make real arguments about the budget rebalance and the funds for the agrarian. I must say, at first, that of a total of 6.1 billion dinars, and how much Mr. Minister, in his presentation in the course of the reasoning of this rebalancing, is being taken from subsidies from non-financial enterprises in the area of agriculture and science and taken somewhere near three billion dinars. I think it's a large amount of funding and this country hasn't allocated significant resources to these areas in years. The fact, this year when the budget was adopted, and we who belonged to the opposition parties, and as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, I welcomed the Ministry of Agriculture's initiative and, in fact, the government's decision to increase the agrarian budget almost three times compared to the previous year. However, it is more incomprehensible and understandable that you take exactly from this agrarian budget, which this year was finally to provide fair compensation to farmers, to further stimulate the development of agricultural production and to stimulate the quality of this agricultural production, which would allow our competitiveness on the European and world markets in this domain. However, for rebalancing, a significant part of the resources are being processed from there, simply by the funds. Mr. Minister, it's not exactly the information you've provided that 1.5 billion dinars are excluded from the assets of the agricultural budget, which were intended to subsidise agricultural production. The Agrarian Budget shall be funded by the Veterinary Administration, Plant Protection Administration, the Forest Management and the Republic Water Directorate. Total reductions in these funding positions are 2,475,000 dinars. You can take a look at it and check it out, and now I'm going to take the numbers out for you. The budget reduction in the position, i.e. economic classification 451 from 12,789,586,000, is reduced to 11.282,875,000, down from 1,506,71,000. From the budget of the Veterinary Authority, 900 000 dinars are taken, and the resources of the Plant Protection Authority are reduced by 30 million dinars, the resources of the Forest Protection Authority are reduced by 36,302,000 dinars, and the resources of the Republic Water Directorate are reduced by 2.9 million dinars. If you add that up, it's not 1,506,000,000, it's 2,475,022,000 dinars. What was all the funding to be made out of these funds that are now shrinking? It is said here in the introductory exposé that the agrarian budget will primarily reduce 900 million dinars planned as measures to improve the quality of milk and will decrease by 606,800,000 dinars from the position or item – the measure of improving the productivity of the land. Now I'm going to stick to that item you said didn't start to realize, and first of all, that's not true, because that item has been realised since the beginning of the calendar year, because it's being funded, or with these 606 million, is envisaged to finance the promotion measures in livestock. These are selection measures, selections in cattle, in pigmaking, sheepmaking, gambling, horsekeeping, livestock and beekeeping. For these purposes, 120,800,000 dinars were planned. Furthermore, out of these 606 million, as a measure of improving the productivity of landowners, a regression of breeding cattle is planned. You will agree to regression, i.e. The production of breeding cattle, the one who deals with it, the continuous, the plan, the succession work, and every year, year by year, this country has financed, i.e. regressed herding cattle. For these purposes, 402 million dinars were planned from these 606 million dinars and were planned to regress the production of 34 000 breeding heifers. The definition of this country and the Ministry of Agriculture was administratively cattle and sheep production, because these are the resources that will allow our appearance on the world market, with the products of these species. All those who produce and raise livestock know that the most expensive part of production is the production of breeding cattle and therefore the planned subsidisation. I don't think there was room for that position to be analized in such a way and for producers and cattle, and breeding bulls, and sheep, and goats, and bees' societies to be cut off in funding. Furthermore, from this position it was planned to finance the promotion of new plant plums with 15 million dinars, new vineyard plantings with 15 million dinars, encouraging the production of certified seeds with 35 million dinars. Then, raising a parent with basic fruit material with about eight million dinars, etc., and ultimately subsidising land analysis and making recommendations for the use of appropriate fertilisers with 11.6 million. I think this measure is important to wartime manufacturers. Agricultural producers have been cut off to examine the quality of land and to give suggestions on which land that artificial fertilisers will most effectively be used and they, if they want to work, must finance it with their own resources. I know that more than 20,000 soil samples were examined in Vojvodina both last and last year, which produced significant results and helped speed up this war production. That's why my team is more incomprehensible now that both these funds and this position are being analized in this way. In the end, I also want to say something about the funds that were planned to improve the quality of milk. Our citizens, especially dairy producers, have a very poor hygiene production of milk. We have an unquality production. For these reasons, this year it is planned to improve the hygiene of production, but also the quality of milk. For these reasons, 800 million dinars are planned in the budget and, above all, for the purchase of equipment for the husband of cows and sheep and these latofrizes, i.e. small moving milk refrigeration devices, and thus a significant reduction in microorganisms or bacteria after husbands. Simply, these funds are literally being extinguished for that purpose. This item planned 100 million dinars for the introduction of a system of quality by international standards, namely ISO 9001, ISO 14000, ISO 17025 for the improvement of laboratory work or environmental protection, and these funds are in fact analyzed. And today, in this country, we don't have any agricultural organization that introduces a quality system, which is a job that requires resources. It would have been quite good if the state had allocated money to help such agricultural enterprises or combinations to enter the business. You simply cancel this by denying the right of budget users to these funds. I'm certainly not going to say which adverse consequences may have a reduction in the agrarian budget in the veterinary work and services, meaning in the veterinary field, because I think the most funds have been cut off, somewhere around 900 million dinars. By the end of September, only 540 million dinars were spent, but the fact of the largest scale of the programme is realized precisely in this second half of the year, so that there will be a serious risk of the implementation of the animal health care programme, but I will talk much more about it when I explain my amendment, given that I have submitted an amendment just about reducing this item in the budget. In the end, I want to inform you MPs, because no one has noticed it, and our public, above all, people who are dealing with scientific and research work, that the resources of this rebalance have been reduced by 437 million dinars. It is an economic classification of 420, specialized services, which finance basic research programmes, technological development programme, knowledge transfer and technology programme, equipment and space maintenance programme, international co-operation programme, and then is financed by the Mother of Serbia, astronomical Observatory and staff training programme. I think there's been a mistake here, too. I think there were free and other reduction positions, not taking the resources of the Ministry of Science, because they're not big anyway, so this country is a little bit different for science, especially because this is the final year of research in the field of technological development. Basic research continues for another year. So, Minister, if you had a commitment and a need as a member of the government or a finance minister to agree to a budget rebalance, I think you should have found some other positions to cut funds, not nearly three billion out of six billion and 100 million out of these subsidies for non-financial organisations, to be taken from agriculture and the Ministry of Science.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7078	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7079	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-president of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to point out some things to Mr. Masic, who he did not understand because he was not in the previous meeting of the Serbian Parliament. This budget of 20 and some billion, even reduced, is much larger than in 2002 – 5.6 billion, or in 2003 – seven and something billion. What is your key observation? It's like improving the quality of milk. I think you forgot that in the meantime "Imlek" and most of the dairy in Serbia were privatised, and I was against that 800-900-million-dollar item, which was in the budget, because "Imlek" is obliged to fight for the quality of its milk, not to organise a beauty mass contest. What's our problem here? What does the Agriculture Committee need to do in the next period? That's the price of milk, to suggest the subsidies that will come to farmers. For example, the price of milk is 3.3 dinar per fat unit since 2001. We were just talking about it. The price hasn't been changed. Meanwhile, other milkers began to pay milk by protein composition or by some other elements. We need to settle this, return the price of milk to the level that is worthy of farmers and the value it should take in society, then get the money from the budget to the peasants, because the farmer holds 95% of the production, 95% of the area in Serbia, and that should be our main job, and help with the adoption of the next budget to keep that money straight to the farmer. I don't think this reduction, just your exposure shows, is going to hit the peasants, but those people who privatized the companies, and that won't hit them much. They have a monopoly in some way and we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7080	On what basis do you want the word? He was talking about a 97th member who regulates the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7081	Ladies and gentlemen, I understood the good budget, although I was not in the last session, I also understood the budget rebalance, to clarify that Mr. Rafaelovic and I. I also said what the budget funds were planned for, out of the 800 million dinars to improve the quality of milk. These funds were primarily to be granted to agricultural producers. It means to milk producers as credit means of supplying equipment and to obtain these milk refrigeration devices. Therefore, it is true, and if the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and the Government were planning a budget, if they objectively thought they were doing something good for cattle farmers, for cattle organisations, for milk producers, then they should have been consistent. If it was an idea to make political marketing and to say that the budget was foreseen, unlike previous budgets, funds and for these purposes, there was also a particular political goal, but also citizens now need to know that those who have proposed for political reasons to stand now are no longer standing and will not have the opportunity to use these funds for those purposes for which, hopefully, they would be welcome and that, through the realisation of the purchases of the equipment for the husband and those milk refrigeration devices, the quality of milk would certainly increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7082	The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7083	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, we are discussing a budget rebalancing which, as has already been pointed out many times from this speaker, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic will not support. Here I have to consult the stenographic notes from the session where the Republic of Serbia's budget was adopted, and at that time I realized that Serbia is a country of wonders, because Mr Mladjan Dinkic became a finance minister thanks to the votes of the main heroes of his book "Economics of Destruction". I did not hope, however, that the elements of this economic policy from the "Economics of Destruction" would be used in economic policy in Serbia after everything that happened after 2000. By consulting these stenographic notes, I have to find that many of the elements that I was talking about today are still valid. We have a crisis in Kosovo, we have a bad climate for investment, political instability, stopped privatisation, so everything we talked about in March now in an even more pronounced vision. Pre-election promises, too, have remained at the level of cheap demagogy and pulsism which, as I often like to point out, cost the most expensive after us. The political platform of the budget that we are talking about today has remained completely unclear, because what a political platform it was, that is the budget and that is how it is achieved, so today I am talking about budget rebalancing. As far as the agrarian budget is concerned, it is already quite said, I said then that the budget cannot be compared with the budget, because it is not desirable to compare not your wishes, but our achievement, but your achievement and achievement of the budgets made by the previous governments, the government of Zoran Djindjic and the Government of Zoran Zivkovic. The changes in the economy are going much slower than in politics, and that's why every stalemate is very devastating because of the pulsism, because of the demagogy we talked about, because it has consequences for the development of our country and society. The budget, as the main instrument of economic policy, must possess budgetary discipline, a reduction in deficits, monetary stability, a reduction in inflation, so that each product gets its real market price, but without neglecting the social component, which is also quite said here. Many here are calling for what was said in March of the month, what was done and said three years ago, maybe two years or a year ago, but I have to say that the generations coming will not remember us by what anyone said about who this speaker was, but what who did it to the people and the state. Believe that just in the economy, it will be the clearest of some historical distances that has been done many times since 2000 to stabilise this country's economy and heal the economy. We have established stability and predictability of the system, stopped a decades-old economic Sunflower, a stable currency, an ever-increasing economic condition, not best, but we have created public finances for you, which are fundamental issues of the quality of one government, in which the current minister was part involved, therefore, in the work of the Government then as governor of the National Bank. What led the previous governments was that the easiest thing to do was to give unearthed points that way. The stability of the system, which has been in restructuring and in changes in public finances, has all been paid by self-discipline and denial. We had principles of economic policy and they were just what was earned. But unfortunately, there's still little money in this country and it only needs to be spent on what's most needed, so clearly set priorities. Our economic policy objectives were to become the most favourable in the region by the tax system, and part of it is to continue the policy and to make it possible for the tax system to really become the most favourable in the region, but for the restructuring of public enterprises, such as EPS and railways, very little has been done, and as far as Serbia's electricity sector is concerned, some things have been returned to the beginning. Rapid privatisation was also one of the objectives of economic policy as a necessary condition for the recovery of our economy, because we are all aware of what happened here, that privatisation is stopped. Reforms must be carried out through communications, but we are not ready for rotten communications, and when we talk today about reducing budget deficits, we are talking about reducing this minority support to this government, and therefore the nervousness shown behind this speaker is noticeable. So there's no way that this budget is developmental, unlike social and recession, as the previous government's budget was then discussed, and that's why we're going to vote against this rebalancing. In June, Minister Dinkic said there would be no rebalancing but only a reduction in expenditure. This is about the fact that international financial institutions, primarily the IMF, do not trust this government to cut expenditure and need confirmation from the Assembly that expenditures, or budget deficits, will indeed be reduced. The future side remained the same, but despite the fact that the gross national product is twice as big as it was planned. So, I mean March. The deficit coverage was planned at 16.4 billion since privatisation, and in the proposal, 5.5 billion dinars, everything we talked about happened. The disastrous economic policy they have led in some segments, especially when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, so anti-amateur policy, amateurs who have done it in a really inappropriate way, and then we are not surprised at what the result in privatisation is like it is. A special story is the Ministry of Economy, where we don't have a minister for the economy today, but there's something good in every evil, because ever since we don't have a minister for the economy, there's some better results than when we had it. The budget goes through a new procedure, a pre-election story about the destroyed institutions of the system, so it does not stand, and the credits and donations of international financial institutions have been reduced by six million dinars, it is planned to be 13.2, and now 8.2, trust has been reduced, high risks, we are more distant from the European Union than we were in March. The state takes surplus liquid assets from the economy, and instead of spending it there, they're being spent by the state. The ministry of justice has been reduced by 300 million dinars, and in the MUP along with the BIA has been reduced to 650+70, i.e. 720 million dinars and so on, so to speak. Three hundred million dinarras establishing new institutions, and here it is said for this speaker, the licensing of bankruptcy managers, means, for their licensing, and whether the Agency will be formed, how education will be done for those who need to educate bankruptcy managers in the future and whether the bankruptcy law will be enforceable on February 1st of next year. Agriculture and forestry, there is also water industry, 2.2 billion, the agricultural budget has been reduced, so empty promises of a triple-larger agricultural budget. The capital investment ministry is shorter by 3.5 billion dinars, so less for roads and investments, there is labour, employment and social policy, down by 170 million dinars of the total planned 800 million. A hundred million benefits for workers who lost their jobs, that's three times less than last year, and it's down 40 million. Meanwhile, there has been an increase in the number of unemployed, although some different speeches have been heard, except in the state sector. Education has been reduced to 1.1 billion dinars and this refers to investments. Health care has been reduced by 650 million dinars also for investments, a culture of 240 million dinars. The state community, the army, they pay the price, there's 5.5 billion dinars, etc. I've already talked about the EPS and the railways, there's nothing done, things are back up, there's no deal with the IMF. The external trade deficit is significantly higher than last year, no co-operation with international institutions, privatisation has stopped, no investment due to a different way of conducting politics. This is the result of the disastrous policy that has been led. This budget is to stop economic development and investment, and the rebalance actually means - we don't know what we're going to do and we don't actually have a vision of where in the economic sense, economic sense, this country should go. I said at the beginning that changes in the economy are going much slower than in politics and therefore very carefully should be handled in macro-economic policy. Public finances are like a huge tanker going down the ocean, and if we make a sudden move, we can roll it over, the ship starts rocking dangerously, we need to change the captain, too, so this ship can continue to sail more stable and calmly, just as it was after the change in 2000, when we managed to maintain the stability of the system despite the fact that we were working on restructuring and the changes in this system, which was also attended by the current finance minister, and then as governor of the National Bank. I call for some way to make a change in this society, that we need new choices, in order to be able to return to that path of economic recovery and development, to make moves that will not be popular, but it will be for the benefit of this people and this country, because it is the only way we will join the European family of people, where we have always been a nation, nation and nation and place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7084	Before I set a break, let me just say that the next speaker is Mita Avramov. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break – 16,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. We have determined that 89 MPs are present in the O.R. Since we have a quorum, we can work. The word of the people is the apostle of Mit Abram: but let the messenger of the people be prepared, Paj Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7086	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you know, the SRS, as the main opposition party, said in March that this budget, which was adopted, was not realistic. No one listened to SRS MPs, to come today to a discussion of the SRS that spoke about the unreality of the budget that was adopted and which must now experience rebalancing. Many speakers have already said a lot about the budget itself, about everything where the funds have been abolished, where they are not, etc. Our finance minister missed the budget by 12.7 billion, which we don't think is such a small thing, since he's from a group of experts. I don't think that's the kind of thing that should happen to one expert. But what is it, it's here. It has been shown whether or not the minister is really expert on that part of the job. There's been some of our most painful things, some of our resources for the military and for agriculture and veterinary protection. As far as the military itself is concerned, we already know the situation in our army, we know where it's going and where it's going. Since this current government wants to join the NATO Pact, surely everything in the military must be devalued and it must be done to make the military function the way it used to work. We all know that we were the fourth military force in Europe, which we are now, I can't even say. I'm sure the ministers will come out and say it. Right now, it's the worst situation in our air force, since we don't have any capable aircraft that could take off right now. It's not just about aviation, it's about all kinds of military in our country. We have already received, perhaps many here and do not know, instructors from the UK who have come to train our officers, how and how the country's defence strategy should be managed, but by their own means of security, not ours. I think our army proved itself during NATO aggression in 1999 and that we showed, with the means of tools and weapons we had, that we could successfully defend ourselves against the invisible enemy. This wasn't a small war, this was a major 18-nation attack on our country. I'm sure there'll be a reconstruction in the army. Many officers will retire, especially those who do not want to cooperate with these instructors who have come from the NATO Pact alliance. Surely they will be forced, those who have acquired conditions and who are closest to retirement, to retire. Believe them to be true patriots and true officers who have sworn to defend their country. Those who cooperate, we know who they are. As far as agriculture is concerned, there's been a cut in money from the budget. We know that agriculture is the main bearer of this country and that everything has fallen on the burden of peasants all these years in which we are now. We know that the peasant took it all out on his back, all of it was unscathed to him. When it was supposed to come to the final product and make some money, that final product was unscathed and the peasant barely had a day-to-day survival. As for the stock fund, we're also in a major crisis. Namely, there's been a brucellosis, and there's also a swine fever, and there's a trichinosis that hasn't been contained yet. In the end, let me just say that the SRS won't support this budget rebalance, just because we pointed out his shortcomings in time, and no one wanted to listen to us, I believe they won't do it now. In any case, Serbian radicals do not support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7087	The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7088	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, the Serbian Radical will not vote in favour of the proposed budget rebalancing, for clear reasons: because of the cynical collapse of the foundations of our country's state and economic independence. You know where they're fucking, you heard. The president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, made it clear that your budget cuts are the most taken by the military, agriculture and science. It is clear that this directly undermines both economic independence and our security. To anyone who knows anything about the survival of a country and how it can today, it is clear that a country that has food, water and energy can survive. You all know that agriculture represents a backbone and our economies, and it has allowed us to survive many difficult years of economic sanctions. Now you're cutting directly into those funds that you've intended, allegedly broadly, for our agriculture. At the same time, you're telling a story about how you won't touch the pensioners' receipts, at the same time you're achieving that you're showing yourself to be zealous executioners of the IMF and the World Bank's orders. That's how you want to catch more flies with one blow. Now I'm wondering, if you're destroying our country's economic independence and security with this budget rebalance, by saying that you're protecting the interest of our citizens, because you're not touching those salaries; you said that you gave the military 8.5% increase, which means 8.5% on military salaries that are poor, and we know that inflation has already skipped that 8.5%. Now I'm just wondering who the populist is and who the demagogue is. But I wouldn't do that. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has put up a protest because the entire government is not present here, and we do not have a resolute minister to defend this document. This document, in this form, so stylishly conceived, is an insult and an insult to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This kind of inequality, hand-pagining, in modern times, in computer times, when you have a mixture of styles, incompetence in exposure in individual compartments, is a great shame. I brought it and I'll show Mr. Secretary, if necessary, to see what the US budget looks like. But we want to go to Europe, you're Europeans, I'm going to show him what the German budget looks like, and the rebalancing, and let him see this and keep doing this. But let's get out of the formal side. Now I'm going to use a few minutes to look back at this budget from the point of view of an ordinary doctor. On page 35, Chapter 27 explains function 760, talking about expenditures and revenues. That's where three questions come in. I said this is a vague, messy text that's hard to interpret. I'm interested in the 35th, which means buildings and construction buildings, which draw billions and some dinars. There's no specification at all what these buildings are, whether they're new buildings, whether it's repairs, and division 27 is talking about the Ministry of Health. That's unclear to me. Secondly, here it is interesting to look at two items – sources of funding outside the budget. These sources of funding for the needs of the Ministry of Health include: own income, donations and receipts from foreign duties. The donations are very thin, 14 million dinars, and when we look at the third item – receiving from foreign debts, a billion and 500 000. So today, the health ministry's jobs are being financed by what we have to pay off, foreign loans, donations are no longer available. These figures are not in themselves interesting, but there is one interesting thing, they are sources of funding outside the budget, and then there are expenditures from additional incomes. When comparisons are made from additional income and what needs to be financed, you find a difference of 222.949.000 dinars. If we turn that into a euro, where are the three million euros? On page 35 in this table here, there are three million euros missing. This kind of material gives us, this is scandalous. If someone is in an unprincipled coalition and won't read this, they have an assignment to accept, we Serbian radicals will never accept it. Take the digitrons, collect on page 35 what is the expenditure from other funding funds and what is the specification, there are no three million euros. Now it is very interesting to see this annex that has been given, it is an integral part of the budget – the decision to amend the financing plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. One galamatias, where you have 20 pages of everything and everything. You have the address of the facility, the e-mail you have, where there is a network of health institutions, where there is no one. It can also be one piece of information, we take it apart, and it's said, it's an annex, where you say how the system works in the Republic Institute. Then we wouldn't mind. This is where the hair is torn into three parts: in six months what they got and spent money, in seven months what they got and spent money, and in eight months what they got and spent money. If the trend was done so let's see what's going on, we'd say we're following the trend. It's not there, it's just a bunch of data. What's the key to all this? It's a disaster for the health of the Serbian people, and I have to say, and the budget and how it touches health policy. He says this: "According to health institutions, obligations continue to be settled neatly on the basis of employees' salaries, where payment has been moved within a week; the agreed funds for other agreed purposes, energy, medicines, sanitary material, dialysis material and other costs are also not settled at the level agreed for this period. "It is said that six billion are in the dubious, there is no six billion money. How it's supposed to come out with this budget rebalance. It is thought of in a criminal way and I will read it to you – the structure of the cost of primary and secondary healthcare is changing, and this is reducing the cost of primary health care and increasing the cost of secondary and tertiary care. What does that mean? The table shows that 66% of the planned funds will be given primary protection. The basis of every good medicine and every health care system is primary health care. This is where half what will be given to primary health care. This is extra-reform, non-European, scandalous. This is what you propose with this rebalancing and you're all gonna raise your hand for this. At the very end, there's something else I want to say. Since we've united the debate and we're also discussing the loans that need to be made... No, then I apologize. I'm asking you to refuse me three minutes now, since I'm asking a parliamentary question. How many donations and loans have been received from abroad, what have the funds been spent on and how many foreign experts have taken for themselves from these funds? When there's a loan debate, we'll see how it is. It's gonna be on that folk's, "what the godfather brought, taken back" with these donations. There have been some interesting discussions here that have been addressed to us by radicals. It's about the radicalisation of Serbia, that we spread the fog. There is a democratisation of Serbia here. In fact, the people's will comes to its own. I'm saying that we can't see today, from the resources that have been given, a lot of resources are given, where these funds are, we don't see where they're being spent, and we see that only the Ministry spends the substance of these loans on its activities. That's why I'm asking this question and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7089	Just one explanation. The parliamentary question should have been asked at the end of all points, as the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the minister responds orally immediately after asking a question. I gave you one right that didn't belong to you, so you will abstain and wait for the answer. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic, and let the People's MP Momir Markovic be prepared. You have 10 minutes left for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7090	Ladies and gentlemen, in March, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed, and this assembly voted in favour of the Republic of Serbia's 2004 budget. And then it was clear to everyone in Serbia that the budget would be deficited, that there would be insufficient funding and the deficit of 45 billion dinars was planned. Today, the government comes before this assembly with a draft budget rebalance that wants to reduce the budget deficit by about 12.5 billion dinars, i.e. to introduce certain restrictions in some areas. The largest restrictions are, if the proposed rebalancing is looked at, in positions transferred to other levels of government of 5.5 billion dinars, then buildings and construction buildings of less than five billion dinars and subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations of nearly four billion dinars. If this is looked at in a little more detail, although it is relatively hazy and unclear, as far as the first position of the transfer is concerned, it is referring to the funds that the Republic of Serbia has set aside for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Namely, here are the largest restrictions just according to the Serbia-Montenegro Army, and there is the largest reduction. If we take into account the state of Serbia-Montenegro's military status and that the collapse of the military not since yesterday but since the arrival of the DOS to power in 2001, which is evident, then it is clear that this reduction of the military's budget will make the position of the Serbia-Montenegro Army even worse. Now we have a situation that the number of soldiers has been reduced multiplely, that the conditions in the barracks are extremely difficult and bad, that the soldiers are released to the houses to bathe and feed, and about the equipment and not to talk. The equipment is obsolete and the funds for modernising the army do not have or are planned, but what is planned by the budget is being reduced. As for the position – buildings and construction facilities, he says, it is a little vaguely written and shown, we do not know exactly what is meant, but it is probably also meant to maintain buildings and buildings, and to invest, or build new buildings and buildings. There's a reduction, too, an extremely large, about five billion dinars. Here I would like to point out that it is incorrect that restrictions are now being made in this position, if we have a situation in Serbia that there are a large number of buildings in the construction phase, that the works are under way, that the obligations towards the contractors are not settled, they should be reconciled, and the funds are now being reduced. I mean, mostly, the school facilities that Serbia has a lot of, and where there are a lot of objects, these works are ongoing. As for subsidies, where there is an extremely large reduction, I only want to point out once again what has already been said, that agricultural subsidies have been adopted. In fact, one of my predecessors has already said that these subsidies in agricultural production are extremely low, that the prices of agricultural products are extremely low and have not been changed in years. For example, the price of milk, which is already mentioned here, has not been moved for four years, still standing at the same level, is still a liter of milk of about 10 dinars, which is unacceptablely small, and I mean the ransom price of milk. At least it could be left in the area or remain at the level foreseen in the March start of the budget, so that subsidies and premiums in agriculture are not reduced, not to make restrictions, but to stay at least at the level planned for this year. I also wanted to say a few words about the very character of the one who made the budget in March and this rebalancing. However, if the figures provided for in March and those foreseen by the rebalancing are carefully compared, it is clear that it is a layman's budget, that it is one charlatan approach to this business, because it is impossible and incomprehensible, and I don't know if the minister can explain how it is possible for differences in individual positions to be as large as it is now here and done. I'll just try to illustrate it for a few examples. Split 5 – The government of the Republic of Serbia, a position or function of 110, in March of the budget envisions 223 million dinars, and this rebalancing reduced it to 129 million dinars. How can something change so much that twice less value is predicted to be spent by the end of the year than the one scheduled in March. This points to the inconclusiveness of access to this business. The one who planned this budget in March did not seriously consider and approach the job. I must say that since December, Mr Dinkic, when elections were held, or even earlier, since November, when these elections were called, the parliamentary elections in Serbia, have announced himself as the new finance minister. Mr Dinkic is an expert, and if he had already considered himself a finance minister, he should probably have had a draft new budget for 2004, to be correct, to be fit for the situation in Serbia, not to approach the rebalancing at the end of the year seven months after the adoption of the budget, and not to tell us here now that everything was done at speed in March and could not predict what would happen this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7091	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let MP Zoran Antic be prepared. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7092	It's really impossible in these three minutes to say everything you have to say to Mr Dinkic, and about the budget. And if you'd accepted a proposal to extend time by twice, then you could say a lot of things. That's why I'm gonna have to drastically cut short all this stuff that I need to talk about. The end of the presentation of Finance Minister Mr Dinkic looked about like this: whoever does not vote for this budget is against the EU, against European integration, against entering Europe, who does not vote for this budget may have lost his parliamentary card, so he could not vote, etc. Mr. Dinkic, what are your FBI agents looking for, it's a press release. Anyway, let's get back to this subject. You literally destroyed the army with this budget cut. All armies are arming and preparing around, and the KLA is preparing, or the Kosovo Protection Corps, and the Croatian army is preparing, modernising, and you are bringing our army into a situation to literally fire soldiers on Friday, so that Saturday and Sunday the children will go home to take a bath and eat, so that they can last four days. You've also mutilated agriculture. You wouldn't have to rebalance the budget at all if you'd taken a little more account of importing and exporting oil and oil derivatives. The state singles out foreign exchanges for oil imports, the lobby imports of which is head of the cabinet of directors of NIS, mules and other derivatives are exported at far lower prices than our domestic consumers pay, so there is no maputa, one month is exported, and another month is imported, another import lobby with a fat import commission. Imports oil and oil derivatives, imports of furniture belonging to Boško Molica, Zoran Nikodinović, Đorđe Ćuković, Boško Vukurović, Dimitrije Vukčević, Željko Popović, Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamović. That's exactly where you could patch up this money and not have to rebalance it. Please, in the end, and since it is already over, I ask that no longer from this pay phone the dignity of this assembly be offended, nor should it be touched by the private rights of high-ranking Serbian officials. In fact, several times already from here from this pay phone has been said cohabitation. In "Vujaklia", on page 482, the enlightened edition of 1970s, cohabitation means – apartment together, life double, intercourse or full prominence. What the president of the state and the Prime Minister are doing, it's their private matter, but don't mention it from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7093	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered or, more specifically, they have used their time foreseen for the debate, so before concluding a principled search, I ask whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. (Tomislav Nikolic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7094	I think that, Mr. Chairman, someone should have learned when the debate on amendments is being opened. The debate on amendments cannot be opened before we have the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. There is an exception, which is that the National Assembly is to declare by voting whether it wants to move to a debate on amendments, without the government's opinion or the board of directors delivered. The way you're trying to run this session, it's not working. You should have said, the National Assembly didn't get the government's opinion on the amendments submitted, so I'm asking the National Assembly if it wants to open a debate on amendments without the Government's opinion. That is respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. You cannot open an amendment debate without a new additional decision of the National Assembly, because the National Assembly does not allow you to open a debate with its rules of procedure without the government's opinion. There's an exception, but it has to be made specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7095	Mr Nikolic, you have a member of Rule 159: "If the Government does not give an opinion on the draft law within the specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7096	Now you've really hurt my grandson's dignity, which is three days old. The government's opinion on its bill is not required here. Article 135: "The bill, before considering in the National Assembly, is considered by the committees responsible and by the Government." Article 135(5) "Unless the committees and the government deliver reports, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them, or set a new deadline within which they are required to do so." Mr. Chairman, will you ask the Government if they will give an opinion on the amendments submitted or not? The government can say – leave us a deadline to deliver an opinion; or it can say – it is urgent, it is an emergency procedure, we do not have time to give an opinion. Then you tell the Parliament - do you accept that we are going without the government's opinion to submit amendments. Don't play procedure. This is the most important law of the year. If you are playing the procedure in this law, if the government has not had the strength to review 15 amendments, and MPs have been able to review the law within three days, which is being decided that everything that is collected in Serbia will be spent, how it will be collected and how it will be spent, then you really do not know what is the obligation and what is the right of the National Assembly. This National Assembly is above government. Perhaps you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, are not above the government, you may have some interest in the government commanding this National Assembly, but the state has no interest in the government commanding the National Assembly. The constitution does not allow the government to command the National Assembly and we MPs do not allow the government to command or decide in any way what we will do in the National Assembly. The government underestimated us, the entire government didn't come to the National Assembly session, the minister came to propose this and defend this. We held a session, we had enough power to write the amendments, and the government was disabling those amendments. They don't exist for the government. He acts as if no amendment has arrived at the National Assembly. What is the government's relationship to the National Assembly? It's the ratio of the one who has 15% of the electoral body. It's not a crisis, it's a crisis that's going to lead to new choices and you're just generating that crisis. You're just raising it squared, to the third degree. You act like you're all powerful. These before you, who are not present today, were acted by these strikers who are not present in the Assembly, but who have always had at least 150, 200 MPs at the National Assembly. You can't raise 84 MPs to lead the debate, and you act like you can do anything. Don't play with it. There is a possibility that you may rule for a while if you obey the will of the majority. The will of the majority is the will of the citizens of Serbia. As long as there is no relevant request for the government's replacement, you must carry out the will of the majority. Your will is no longer the will of the majority and you know it very well. So we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to declare the amendments submitted by the MPs, there are several parliamentary groups. If you do not want to, we will not decide further, we will only come to vote against the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7097	Mr Nikolic, Article 159's position concerns the laws and amendments to the urgent procedure. If you are not satisfied with my response, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will decide whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7098	Mr. Chairman, if I have to read your lessons here, I will, and I'm still ready to give it away for free. I'm just asking you to respect my dignity and I'll never get out here before I'm sure I'm right. It's a defeat for me if you prove me wrong. Why not read Article 159, paragraph 5. He's referring to the same emergency procedure. "The amendments are being declared by the legislator, the competent committees and the government." There's no more dilemma. One who declares himself has to declare himself or perhaps should write here that amendments can be declared by the legislator and the government. Then I'd say you're right, I can, and I don't have to. This is where he says they plead. There's no way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7099	Mr. Nikolic, I must once again tell you that this attitude 3 begins with the word "if." So attitude 5 can't be applied, in my opinion, if the government won't make a statement. So that attitude means he can, and he doesn't have to. You interpret differently and, again, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7100	I am now surprised by the secretary of the National Assembly, who should have warned you. I understand that neither you nor I are professional enough to do this, but if the secretary tells you this, then the secretary insults the dignity of the National Assembly. You're right in one piece, Mr. Chairman. Article 159, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 refer to the draft law. Items 4 and 5 refer to amendments. I'm referring to you, we're arguing here about the amendment, not about the bill. The third is governed by the question of the law and the government's opinion on the draft law. Paragraph 4 states: "Amendment to the draft law under emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the draft law." Item 5. "The amendments are being declared by the legislator, the committees responsible and the government." So you're reading to me what the bill refers to, which is not slow at all, and you're not going to read Section 4 and Section 5. According to Article 4, we have submitted amendments, and according to Article 5. The government is obliged to give an opinion on these submitted amendments. It's so simple, I'm already more ashamed to explain. (Serb Radical Party emissaries are leaving the hall).
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7101	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Arsen Djuric and Slavoljub Matic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to explain the essence of the proposed amendment. It is about the need to correct a small injustice found in this budget rebalance proposal. Namely, the Sports Authority has several start-up investments, I mean Hal sports in Kragujevac, I mean Hal sports in Zlatibor, in the Cheeta municipality, I mean sports courts in Vienna, and I mean a very important and important campaign that deals with a single topic, and it's about campaigning against violence and misbehaving on sports fields, and that injustice, which is about to end, some 40 million dinars, and we want to correct this amendment. The Minister is not here, we are also correct, from the position of the budget reserves suggested that this amendment be settled and I hope that both the Republic Government and the Ministry of Finance will hear the request of the DSS MPs and allow this to be obtained by our Zlatibor, our Kragujevac, our Vienna, all young people. Those in one game can do more than eight million damage, how much campaign against violence and misbehave on sports grounds, so I pray first of all the Ministry, and I ask the MPs when this amendment comes that we all vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7103	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Belic withdrew the amendment to article 6 which submitted on 13 October, and on 14 October he submitted a new amendment to this article. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7104	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to a member with regard to the reduction of funds that have been identified to eliminate the effects of earthquakes in the Colubary County. In fact, we adopted 500 million in the spring after a billion-and-a-half dinar proposal. The fact that, according to this current dynamic, citizens, who were damaged and who submitted their demands, cannot settle in the next sixteen years, we felt that a billion and a half dinars were necessary to speed up these dynamics. The rebalancing, however, is projected to bring down 200 million from the five hundred million. I'm just going to introduce you to some facts, i.e. numerical data, given that the Colubar County Reconstruction and Development Directorate has so far spent some 170 million, which it has received from the budget this year, that some 70 million have already been identified on the basis of contracted works, which means 240 million, and that there are certain debts towards labour contractors, according to the EPS and some other cooperatives. If such a rebalancing were to be accepted and this amount would be reduced to 200 million, then the work of the directorate would be completely paralysed, and several thousand demands still stand unregulated. I would not return the story of what it was and whether it was an abuse, whether it was regularity or irregularities in the past five or six years, since the earthquake was in September 1998, but we are coming into one situation that if the work of this Directorate were paralyzed, those several thousand citizens would indeed be damaged, or that their rights would also be tried by court. In order to sort of overcome this problem, therefore, after the constitution of the new Council of Directorate, that was at the end of June this year, we also proposed several, I think, very serious proposals, which have practically shifted the way this directive works so far. In fact, we suggested introducing a category, maybe this is a little interesting for you, but believe me, for three or four thousand citizens from the Colubary County, this is a very interesting topic. I'd like to ask for another minute or two of your attention, and you'll say your word when we vote. So, we have suggested that through some of the business banks the possibility of lending damaged citizens, then even introducing a category of subsidies, i.e. co-financing, because we have a large number of requests from citizens who have already entered the process of reconstructing their facilities, that they simply want to invest some of their resources. And we also suggested to the government, given that it is a service that is quite professional, which is equipped, that in the next period, in fact, the Directorate becomes a public utility. Also, we haven't ruled out the possibility of easier resolutions being solved through the assignment of construction material, as it was at the beginning, but without any control, and we know that it gave up. I would once again appeal to all MPs to take seriously the situation in which they are, above all, the citizens of the Kolubar County, several thousand of them, the situation of which the construction director himself is in, given that she has already exceeded these 200 million or 200 million rebalancing allowed on the basis of contractual commitments, and that, if adopted, her work will be completely derailed, in fact, paralysed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7105	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7106	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, may be this topic and this position in the budget seems to have some local character, but I ask you to seriously consider whether this is the way the budget law rebalances it, to predict a drastic reduction in this position, when it has a social character. Why the social character? Six years ago, she was a citizen and, above all, the municipality of Mionica, waiting to finally find out if they could return to their homes and whether they could continue to live normally. We talked about this in March, and I personally submitted an amendment to the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group that, according to the 2004 directive, the budget position is not 500 million, but a billion and 500 million. The finance minister, who is not present today to discuss amendments to the draft budget rebalancing law, assured us that it is not possible then to make a change, but that it will certainly be the Ministry of Finance in mind and will find opportunities to provide additional funding. If the extra funds are instead of 500 million, as is now proposed, 200 million, then something's wrong with math. So, at a time when the Earthquake Disposal Directorate and the development of the Colubary County has a realisation of nine months at 180 million, and we know what the nature of business and cost is, you're contracting construction works, advances, waiting for the end of the situation and the obligations that exist in that directorate, at this point are close to 300 million. They're waiting for building permits, and contracts, and decisions from the Colubary County municipality, so I'm thinking about the next buildings, building buildings, and it's all waiting for the citizens of the Colubary County to move in and then you get a rebalancing proposal for 200 million. How can this be explained to the citizens of the Kolubar district, the citizens of the municipality of Mininica where, there is a stenogram about it from March, there are more damaged facilities than there are households. Today, 3,000 households in the municipality of Mininica are waiting for their facilities to be trained for normal life. And here the finance minister said additional funds would be provided. He also said on the Finance Committee that amendments are unacceptable, that there are no funds, that the proposal for a rebalancing is what it is. I do appeal once again to the MPs of the National Assembly to accept this amendment. I support MP Beric's amendment, which he proposed to provide 400m instead of 200m, only in order to fulfil the obligations already existing in the directive. For the next year, with a plan, or a proposal for a dagger law, we are planning some more decent means, so that we can finally solve this problem that lasts six years. If this dynamic goes to 500 million, it would take 17 years to completely eliminate the effects of the earthquake, and it's simply rude to comment and count how many years with 200 million on an annual basis. Indeed, I think the finance minister should have been here to give an interpretation of his promise, to clarify once again how it is possible that he simply overlooked that position in the budget, even though he made a promise to the National Assembly and MPs that he would especially have that position in mind and would provide additional funding. The proposal is for these funds to be reduced to only 40% of what was given in the Budget Law that we adopted in March. I invite you, indeed, to discuss within your parliamentary groups the possibility of voting this amendment, because surely this position has a social character. DS MPs -- Boris Tadic, the Democratic Party's parliamentary groups -- Boris Tadic will support the vote of this amendment, because we really believe there is room in the draft budget rebalancing law. If the reduced funds of the Ministry of Capital Investments, through which this Directorate is financed, by more than three billion, are simply not clear whether it is possible to save more than 200 million in the plight of the citizens of the Kolubara County, in particular the minery municipalities, in order to ensure normal functioning of all parts of this ministry. So there was no will, there was not enough concentration and there was first and foremost no responsibility for the given word in this assembly, that even additional funds would be provided to address this problem in the Colubary County. Indeed, once again, I am joining and will support this amendment, and the Democratic Party parliamentary group will vote to make this amendment an integral part of the draft budget rebalancing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-18-0.u7107	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Masic withdrew the amendment to article 6 which submitted on 13 October, and on 14 October he submitted a new amendment to this article. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic withdrew the amendment to article 6 which submitted on 13 October, and on 14 October he submitted a new amendment to this article. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee proposes to the National Assembly that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. After we've finished this agenda, we'll interrupt today's work and resume the session tomorrow at 15.00 hours. Just one notice I missed to give, here's what I'm gonna do. Tomorrow, October 19th 2004, on the world day of the fight against poverty, in the National Assembly, at 9:00 p.m., the president of the Predrag Markovic Assembly will talk about the fight against poverty, then the chairman of the Committee of Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and a representative of the United Nations for Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the deputy minister. Who's interested can attend that lecture tomorrow.
