ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Sava Urosevic, Goran Jaksic, Dragor Hiber, Goran Panovic, Zoran Micovic and Miroslav Martic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE LAW ON THE REGULATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE BASE OF POSITIONS FOR EDUCATION, THE AMENDMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT FUND AND THE AMENDMENTS OF THE PAYMENT LAW (the continuation of the joint principled search on 2rd and 4th points) I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to speak? Here you are, authorized representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1954	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will, above all, focus my discussion on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Guarantee Fund, because I think that the Law on Payments and the Law on the Return of Loans is, in essence, a technical part of the job; especially when it comes to the Law on Payments, where it comes to laying down existing legal solutions, though with the essence of strengthening financial discipline. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund Act, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that there have been amendments to this law, for which the SPS, through its parliamentary group, has given several amendments in the previous assembly, which, unfortunately, the previous government did not want to accept. The proposed changes are right on the line of the Socialists' thinking on the basis of the Guarantee Fund, with the essential provision that such a law should have occurred much earlier in 2001, so we probably wouldn't have such a situation in the economy, and we would probably have made it easier to achieve the strategic goal of increasing the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia from the current 150 000 to about 400,000 enterprises. The future of this country is now in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and there is no doubt there, as in the developed world over 90% of all businesses are in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises. I notice three fundamental changes compared to the current text of the law. (President: I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker. ) The first and basic ones have just emerged from the recently adopted 2004 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is essentially the capitalisation of the Fund with 1.5 billion dinars, which, if memory serves me well, with previous funds of about 600 million dinars, would be around 2.1 billion dinars of the total founding fund suitable for issuing guarantees to small and medium-sized enterprises, with the said here that the overall guarantee potential could be two and a half times greater than those funds. This means that in the future, starting with the adoption of this law, we will, in essence, be able to guarantee, for small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs and all others who use the guarantees of the Fund, approximately, up to the amount of 5 billion dinars, which is a significant figure in the conditions in which our republic is located. It is also good that a circle of potential users is extended and, above all, with farmers. (President: I ask the MPs to listen to the speaker. ) This may also be the most significant change in this proposal to amend and supplement the law, because the 2004 budget also showed that this government will pay much more attention to farmers' activities and will treat farmers as entrepreneurs, who will be able to address this fund and use the possibility of issuing a guarantee from that fund to business banks or other financial organisations, which will also give them the appropriate amounts of credit, as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises. When the Guarantee Fund Act was adopted, we were then Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr Vlahovic, I see that there is, we proposed that there are no restrictions in the sense that no guarantee can be issued from the Fund that would exceed 50% of the amount requested, i.e. an approved loan. I see that here the proposer has defined that there are no such restrictions, and I think that this is a good solution, because very often in life, one who receives a guarantee from the Fund at 50% of the approved loan has a hard time, perhaps insurmountable, to provide the rest of the guarantee of 50 percent, because all of the business banks, according to their business policy, need to be given as much protection as possible and to secure the placement of these loans. In particular, this would be a problem when farmers come to the business bank and ask for the appropriate credit to finance some production, to start the orchard, to purchase the agricultural machinery or some other means they need to carry out their agricultural activity. Therefore, it is good that there is no such restriction, which does not mean that the Fund will guarantee 100 per cent of the amount of the requested loan or approved by a business bank or any other financial organisation to all users. It is important that there are no administrative restrictions, because the Fund, as I understand it, will establish criteria by which it will guarantee certain credit amounts. That rule will be passed by the Government or the Ministry of Competent. I see that it's been changed here, that the competent department of these affairs is no longer the Ministry of Business, but this time it's the Ministry of Finance. I might agree with Mr. Vlahovic there, if it were a bit controversial. It is a bit controversial, first of all, because I think that basic database of how we stand in economic terms, which are small and medium-sized enterprises or which are important and which are strategically to be supported, and even this way, through the Guarantee Fund, is actually being found predominantly in the Ministry of Economy. However, on the other hand, I suspect that the logic of the promoter was that the guarantee itself, as a paper or as an activity, takes place in a particular economic entity or in a particular business bank, was actually a business of a financial nature, so that it made sense that this jurisdiction should also be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. Especially when it comes to the provision that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, can also increase the fund from which it will be guaranteed in the future for small entrepreneurs, farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises, which means that, in certain activities or over a certain period of time, this limit does not have to be limited to these potential five billion dinars. I must admit that there is another kind of restriction, which says that according to one business bank, there is no guarantee of more than 20% of the total fund, i.e. capital. If we said that the total capital of the fund, provided that these billions and 500 million are entered into the fund, about two billion dinars, then one business bank can make the most of up to 400 million, and according to one user up to 5% of that fund, which is going to say up to 100 million at most. I'm a little in the dilemma that a technical provision that allows the overall guarantee potential to be 2.5 times greater than the guarantee fund itself in terms of the capital that is present in it. In any case, I will end these 10 minutes, so if I have a need later, I will report again, the SPS will vote in favour of this bill, by having one amendment that will later explain my colleague Bojan Kekić, whom we think is acceptable, which refers to the need to allow the use of this guarantee potential to be used by more users and to focus special attention in the law, although this is said in the opening presentation of Mr Minsiter, on undeveloped areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1955	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: G17 plus, SRS, DSS and SPS. I give my word to MP Bojan Kekic; after him, MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1956	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, my discussion will primarily focus on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund Act, which relate to the effects of this law. The real effect of this law will be seen for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia allocated a billion and 500 million dinars for the 2004 budget to boost bank loans and the entire credit policy. It's important to us that these effects are visible. Under Article 1 of the law, a circle of economic operators, aimed primarily at small and medium-sized enterprises, is extended to the category of farmers. We are witnessing that farmers have been having a very difficult time exercising their credit rights, precisely because the business banks were not able to lend loans to farmers because these loans were not secured by guarantee or super-guarantee. In Article 6. The draft law, which is related to Article 9, provides for certain restrictions relating to the Guarantee Fund, namely restrictions on certain commercial banks, which will contribute to the fact that over one bank the full potential of the Guarantee Fund cannot be exploited and that the resolution of the business banks that exist in the Republic of Serbia is increased. The second part refers to 5% to a particular economic operator. I have submitted an amendment that should limit to 3%, just for the very reason that as many users of business entities and farmers as possible would be covered by the Guarantee Fund. Nothing will bother you if a programme appears that will require a single economic operator to achieve more than 3% of the Guarantee Fund, as it is provided for in Article 6, the position lastly, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia's request of the Fund can also exercise such rights, i.e. to finance certain projects that go over 3%. I'm sorry the finance minister wasn't here, but I listened well to his exposure, where he gave a special accent to undeveloped areas and that the Guarantee Fund would refer to undeveloped areas. The amendment I have submitted requires that 40% of the total Guarantee Fund be directed towards undeveloped areas. By shutting down certain banks, such as Braničevsky County, when the Belgrade Bank, the Pozarjevačka Banka, which has been a development bank since 1956, has been an expansion of banking, and above all in Pozarevec, as the centre of Braničev County. There are now 17 banks and three foreign banks. The entire supply of banking is extremely strong, but only in the center, or in Pogorevec. Other municipalities, and above all Žagubica, Golubac, Kučevo, are satisfied that certain business banks have only certain counters, and in a small number of exposures, deal with the population, and this is the payoff and opening of current accounts. For these reasons, if this amendment is adopted towards undeveloped areas, we would be in a position for economic operators, developing, above all, their end, to be able to gain the right to credit. This structure and network of business banks, and perhaps the finance minister, since he was also governor, could in some way have a legal norm or certain regulation of banking to oblige certain business banks to have, in addition to their branches, a number of exposures or a number of counters, in order to satisfy all economic operators in accordance with their aspirations. Surely, the Guarantee Fund will facilitate the acquisition and exercise of credit rights, and what is important, however, I think that this law and falls, if I may say so, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, because the issue of guarantees and superguarantee is not a complex banking business, thus reducing the board of directors from eight members to four in amendments and additions to the Law, if the number of board members is well deployed and on a territorial basis, enable the law to achieve its purpose. Given that there is also a representative of the Government, I would like to ask that through legal norm and through amendments and additions to Article 6. The law defines up to 40% of the funding for undeveloped areas of the Guarantee Fund. This would also result in the purpose of adopting this law, which is to ensure bank credit, which is in the interest of business banks, and on the other hand is to encourage underdeveloped areas and to achieve a much more comprehensive credit policy towards economic operators, which may have been in the second order of business so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1957	The word is by MP Igor Mirovic, followed by MP Susan Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1958	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the announcement and in the opening statement of the Minister of Finance, and even in the presentations of fellow Members of Parliament, it is as if one kind of continuity with this so-called. the reform laws passed by the Assembly in the previous assembly. So those who talked about it and these laws talk about a kind of continuation of such an economic policy, and we all know very well what the results of that so-called economic policy are. reform, better put, quasireform policy. It is interesting that no one, at least in recent weeks, is talking about the extent of our country's duties, especially from the aspect of the return of these obligations, in the announcement of a law on the regulation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development. It is true, though, that loans for Serbia's famous economic renaissance are not a major obligation and that they amount to only 56m euros. But if we take into account the fact that since 2000, until the end of 2003, the country in international financial banking organisations has been in charge of more than 3 billion euros, as well as that they have not run very well and in fact failed negotiations to reprogram the old obligations of the 70s and 80s, with international financial organisations, at the London and Paris Club, then it is actually more than clear that we will be in a situation that we will not be able to meet our commitments already in 2005. And let me remind you, since the budget is a guarantee of reconciliation on the basis of both those old and these new loans, and this amount in the context of loans for Serbia's economic rebirth, it practically means that citizens will be bonds to settle these debts, because they are taxpayers, full of the budget, and thus they are the ultimate rapper who will have to go through their budgets, of course later and the Serbian budgets, are the most damaged throughout this process. So, I think Serbia is an overindebted country, and it will be very difficult to reconcile those first quarter wars in the larger amount, which are already reaching 2005, 2006, 2007 and later. Why 2005 and 2006? Because these great reformers took loans that had a year or two to start. Within that year, first or second, living well, because there is no feeling of a loan return obligation, and already in 2005 or 2006 every three months, the state will have to return between 250m and 350m dollars to serious analyses. Today, according to the state of things in the Serbian economy, it is not possible, because there is no growth of social gross product, no production, there is no simple degree of development of the economy that guarantees that we will make this money and that we will be able to service our longevity. That's why I'm pessimistic when it comes to the possibility that even such small obligations, relatively small, amounting to 56m euros, we'll be able to get back, because we're already loaded with obligations. Especially with these commitments I'm talking about, 3 billion euros in debt, and looking at this at the very end, this huge debt issue over the last three years wouldn't be so terrible if we'd invested that money in some projects that could make a profit, from which we would pay back, serviced these commitments. Instead, that money went to who knows where. He went to cover the budget gaps, because the government has spent the last three years, and I believe that this one will not succeed either, is unable to define the budget and implement it in the amount that the law plans. Look at only one paradox. Today, within the second item of the agenda, we will also talk about the collection of cigarettes, and on the other hand, the government's action on the legalization of the cigarette project, i.e. to curb the gray economy. So, the government admits that cigarette traffic is not 100% in legal channels, and on the other hand very bravely increases the price of cigarettes and thus tries to fill the budget. The second law is on the trail of this reform story on Serbia's development, on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and on a purely theoretical basis, this law may well be adopted, if, of course, Serbia is based on one theoretical model and there are no other problems in practice that burden small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and why they cannot develop businesses. In the first member of the amendment and addition of this law, the farmer is added as an economic operator, who will be able to be the borrower and, in fact, one type of business entity according to which loans and, of course, the cap of the guarantee fund will be able to be directed in the next period. Actually, it's about demagogy. The agricultural producer in the past three years has been unmistakably destroyed by the current government's economic policy. In the most terrestrial way possible by customs policy, farmers, farmers, all the way to the level of large agricultural systems, which is the core of our country's economy, have been brought into a situation where they can hardly recover, even if there is a radical shift in economic policy. News of yesterday, the stock prices of our biggest brewers began to fall. It's our most economical, best branch in agricultural production. How could it not, if the government allowed huge imports in both this area and other agricultural sectors, bring down all customs duties, even those taxes that it has prescribed, which are large? In practice, they are not respected, there is an abuse in customs service in the implementation of customs policy, an almost hopeless situation in which, of course, light cannot appear in a tunnel in the form of a new economic operator, when it comes to amendments to the Guarantee Fund Act. Unfortunately, in its economic policy, our government has turned to the concept of developed countries, as it has of course liked to say, over the past years and over the past decades, not so rarely devised concepts that did not have confirmation in these very developed countries. When it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a great opportunity not only for business development but also for the development of capital owners themselves in small and medium-sized enterprises, it may also be a chance to reduce the number of unemployed in our country. This is Italy's most instructive example. I've talked about it on many occasions. At the end of 1995, Italy had about 11% of the unemployed population of the total working age population and effective measures through the development of very small and medium-sized enterprises managed to reduce the percentage, almost half it. These were comprehensive measures. They included local self-government and Italian regions, the Italian government. Funds have been provided as an incentive to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. The Italian government's guarantee fund also worked. We lack these very important links, and these are local self-governments, they are left to themselves today, and if you look at the position of business entrepreneurs who have capital and who want to develop their business, they are facing the biggest obstacles precisely in bureaucracy, the administration of local self-government, and there are no help from funds, or guarantee funds, there are no lower interest, when it comes to banking principles, and there is nothing helping you, because simply, the capital you have cannot invest, because you have an obstacle in local bureaucracy, you can't even get a plot to build a hall, you can't get any relief from hiring a larger number of workers, etc. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act offers nothing new because it does not change the essence of things. The essence of things must change in relation to the owner of capital in small and medium-sized enterprises, in those who already have small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in those who do not have them, who may have some of their own small capital and who want to invest it or have some small production they want to increase, triple it or increase their production volume and the number of workers in their company. What's still very interesting, and what's on the trail of these affairs that were recently spoken of when the Committee of Auditors took office and when we noticed that, in an uneconomic way, the resources of the National Bank were placed in non-quality banks. In fact, they were covering for malversion in the area of electricity sales, i.e. in Elektroprivreda, it seems to me that something similar is being prepared when it comes to Article 5a. In point 8 that reads - determines the bank where funds will be managed based on a public tender, we have one change that is seemingly merely technical, which actually changes the essence of things and is said to be determined by the banks where the funds of the fund will be managed by a public tender. This means that I am making public my suspicion that a new kind of abuse is being prepared, a new kind of fraud in the placement of our funds, and these are state resources, the resources of all citizens. Therefore, a model is required to choose a third-class bank, to place state resources in it, to serve non-state needs and to benefit individuals. As was the case with EuroAxis Bank, with the current finance minister who is not in the O.R. today, although the MPs speak of a set of laws he has proposed, and with abuses in the field of electricity. The conclusion, therefore, when it comes to discussing these three laws is that the good wishes of the Government can leave at the entrance to the National Assembly, because there is no fundamental change in the economy and economy. Once again, I doubt that, on the basis of loans for economic rebirth, we will be able to recover because the country is over-indebted and because since 2005, all the serious economists point out that we are entering into a debt crisis. And for two reasons. The reprogramming of old debts by 2000 was not done in the way that the old government promised, and we also have new responsibilities from 2000 to today, which were spent through irrational, non-purpose and, I would say, perhaps a primitive attitude towards these funds and budgets. On the other hand, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund Act, which should be like some kind of new quality for entrepreneurs, for owners of capital in small and medium-sized enterprises, and it means only an empty letter on paper. Because like the past, this government does not come out with comprehensive measures that should mean the launch of our national economy, creating conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus creating conditions to reduce the number of unemployed. It will only be able to do so by some other government that will be able to identify the problems our citizens have, including those concerning these laws and, of course, it seems to me that after the victory of our candidate in the elections, the candidate for president of the Republic, it seems to me that in the preparation of the laws itself, we will have a new lever that will mean, i.e. knowing, giving a tone and a new quality with new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1959	The People's MP Susana Grubjesic has the word, and then the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three proposals for economic laws that the Government has submitted to the National Assembly are before us today and let me first comment on the proposal for a law to regulate the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, i.e. loans for the economic renaissance of Serbia and the then law on the National Fund for Economic Renaissance, i.e. to remember briefly when and why the loan was called. A loan for Serbia's economic rebirth was launched at the end of June 1989 and nearly all state institutions were mobilised to its realization. The amount the loan said was extremely ambitiously planned, a billion dollars and two thousand billion dollars of that dinar. The first was designed to pay citizens on temporary work abroad, but was later decided to turn this action into a universal one. The lenders were guaranteed very tempting interest, referring to the foreign currency amounting to 10 to 15% per year, and depending on the currency, while the interest on the dinar assets was tied to the Escont rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia increased by 1.5%. Nevertheless, as well as strong media support, the loan payment went sloppy. By the beginning of December 1989, therefore five months after its launch, only 2.8% of the expected foreign exchange amount was paid. The planned dinar amount of the loan was almost fully realised - 98.6%, but inflation was rapidly valuing it. The biggest burden has fallen to 55 foreign trading companies, expected to pay $350m, and for a short while there is optimism that the loan will succeed. However, it turned out that the amounts of funds entered and really paid were drastically different from those of the others. Companies declared support for the loan, enrolling that they would give the intended amounts, but the foreign exchanges were foreign. The deadline for the loan was even moved from June 25th 1990 to January 31st 1991, but regardless, the final score was the following: $86m, 8.6% of the estimated amount and 290m of the then dinars were collected. The real foreign currency equivalent of the paid dinars was about 130 million marks. The first credit for economic renaissance began only in October 1990, when 81 projects were accepted, but soon there were some difficulties in realisation, and only half of the loan amount was used in the end. The rest of the money was transferred to the Belgrade Bank in Cyprus, as well as to one London bank, where under more unfavourable interest conditions, than those guaranteed to lenders, it remained waiting for its final return to its owners. Now, 15 years after that, Serbian citizens who have paid their loan money by this law are being paid back in bonds that will be dematerialized securities of value and which are named - are being paid in euro. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the value of the debt, is 56m euros and consists of dedicated foreign deposits of 40m euros and bonds in foreign currency of 16m euros. The total value of the debt was determined by applying the agreed interest rate to the collected foreign exchange assets, as well as the interest rates of 2% on an annual basis from 1 July 1989 to the date on which the bond was due, as this debt is settled. The payment of the first war begins on August 31st this year. All amounts will be paid in the next four years, according to the next dynamic, which is otherwise consistent with the dynamics applied in the event of payment of the old foreign savings. So, on August 31st 2004, lenders whose loan has not exceeded 530 euros were provided with 13m euros in the budget; on August 31st 2005, debts of up to 1,060 euros will be paid, requiring 8m euros; on August 31st 2006, debts of up to 5,000 euros will be paid, requiring 11m euros; and, on 31 August 2007, all other lenders, which will require about 24m euros. Seven days after the entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Finance will issue a public call for applications, in at least two daily lists distributed throughout the territory of the Republic, and the deadline for the application will be 60 days from the date of publication of the call. The bonds will also be used before the deadline of arrival, according to the Bill's proposal, for the purchase of shares in the privatisation, the purchase of real estate, the purchase of shares of authorised banks for the purchase of medicines and the payment of treatment costs in the country and abroad. The conversion of debt and the payment of bonds will be conducted by a bank from Serbia's territory chosen by a public tender and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The second draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act is also on the agenda today and given that the current law has had some shortcomings. If the proposed amendments are accepted, the guarantee fund funds, in addition, will be provided from both the Republic budget and thus the total nominal amount of guarantees and superguarantees, issued by the guarantee fund, could be maximum 2.5 times the fund's capital. The importance of the proposed changes is also reflected in the fact that they will allow for a significant increase in the activities of the guarantee fund, which would boost credit activity on the financial market under much more favourable conditions than the commercial banks are now offering. The republican budget has set aside 1.5 billion dinars for the guarantee fund, and it is expected to expand the list of potential loan users, which means that, in addition to small and medium-sized enterprises, guarantees will also be given to farmers. The third draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments is aimed at removing certain inaccuracies and restrictions set out in the Law on Payments, which began to apply from 1 January 2003. Given that the harmonisation of the state's payment turnover with European Union solutions is one of the preconditions for our country's involvement in European financial flows, a significant newspaper has been introduced in Serbia's payment system on 1 January 2003, above all, as payment traffic has been transferred to business banks. The amendments to the law stipulates that payment transactions are done to dinars, as well as that natural and legal persons with bank accounts also have accounts with the National Bank of Serbia. It's a consolidated vault account and a central register. It is foreseen that the transfer of duties is initiated by a trustee's order on the basis of the agreed securities of value, note or authority granted by the debtor to his trustee, and that the debtor cannot tax his or her powers granted to the trustee. In addition, the National Bank of Serbia should establish with its signature the tasks an agent can carry out on behalf of the bank. I hope that for these three proposals, which the Serbian government has sent to the Assembly for consideration, there is an undeniable majority, and as far as the G17 Group of MPs are concerned, plus we will certainly vote in favour of these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1961	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that these legislative proposals are mostly good wishes of members of the Government of Serbia, especially when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act, where Mr. Minister told us that the old law was bad and to amend and supplement both entrepreneurs and agricultural producers can use the guarantee fund to raise loans. I just don't know why I don't honestly trust you with your intentions. Is it possible that the reason for one customs policy, carried out by Miroljub Labus while he was the Vice-President of the Federal Government, domestic agriculture was destroyed or perhaps because you gave the funds to the father-in-law of Mary Rasete-Vukosavljevic, when you were together in the government with the Democratic Party? So I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia will, with one law, allow the guarantee fund funds to be used by those who are governmental favorites, that loans will be selective, i.e. guarantees to raise loans, and that they will most often be subject to abuse and will not be used on purpose. When it comes to the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development, there were some words about it, and Mr. Minister said the commitments from this loan should be paid by 31 August 2007, that the funds would be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's just that the question is whether it could have been faster, because we believe that Serbia's budget is too luxurious today. And if that position were perfectly correct, we will have this session and the Financial transaction Tax Act, which has been abolished since 31 December 2004. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the budget without this law will be able to, but will spend this year on the tax of over four billion dinars. The tax was formerly intended and Serbian Radical Party wanted and proposed a month ago that the tax continue to be intended and that the funds from that tax be given to the Serbian Orthodox Church for the restoration of Hilandar. It's about 700 million dinars, but we wouldn't mind if you'd written a second bill on financial transaction tax, so you put along with Hilandar that the money from that tax was used to repay the debt to Serbian citizens. The funds provided by that tax are quite enough to return all citizens and all legal and other persons who have given funds to the Fund for the Economic Development of Serbia to the last dinar by 31 December 2004. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Payments, I must say what preceded that law. The first thing that preceded was the promise by the governor at the time, and current Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, that by crossing payment traffic from the then PDO to the business banks, he would have multiple positive effects, so he said in the first place cheaper payment traffic, we will discuss this later. In the second place, he said he would increase the liquidity of the banks participating in payment, as funds for vision, i.e. by deposit at the end of the working day, will remain with securities trading banks. And, which is normal, whoever does payment traffic would have certain resources to provide safe income and profit for that administration in the business banks, which already exists, and even a new one they would hire. Before the law was passed, the governor of the time, and now the finance minister, began to shut down large domestic Serbian banks owned by social capital, on the one hand. On the other hand, in the winding-up process, the exposures that these banks owned mostly go to the hands of the Commercial Bank, and by crossing the payment turnover into the business banks, large business premises, which used the then-income branches for accounting and payment, and there, at that time, the National Savings Bank, which is at that moment in the majority of the state's ownership, would eventually, in a magical way, be transferred to majority private property. Thus, there are too many coincidences, so the question arises – who is everything from G17 shareholders at the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank. To make things worse, payment traffic rather than even cheaper, as the current governor has promised, it increases four or five times, and that's exactly what the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank, and we believe that this law, in fact, has been the result of their aspirations and has allowed them extra-savings, and has put even more burden on the economy. So now the cost of payment traffic, with 0.2% at the time, has jumped from 0.8% up, means four or more times, and not to talk about it then, and even now I think it is, still the NBS for providing services to business banks charges that old rate of 0.2% for each payment transaction that any business bank or business entity achieves. That way the NBS gets about four billion dinars, and we still don't know where that money is used and what its purpose is. Now I understand your wish from a month ago and a little bit more days ago, when you are like that, and especially the G17 insisted on it, in some panic you simply wanted to replace the governor of the time and to re-emerge a man of trust for the G17. It's just that nothing's gonna help you, because after Tomislav Nikolic won June 13th, nothing can save you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1963	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1964	Dear MPs, I would like to commend the Republic Government and the ministry proposed by these three laws. These proposals prove that the government has seen problems, and beyond all, they need to be resolved, in order to revive the economy in our country, to create new jobs and, above all, to gain confidence in their own country. If I start with a return law based on loans for Serbia's economic rebirth, it is proof that the new republican government wants Serbian citizens to have confidence in their own state. Without this confidence, without correcting the injustice that occurred during the 1990s, it is impossible to go into the sub-unders that are very important to the state. And the state, at any moment, if citizens have confidence in their own state, can reach out for its bonds and try to, of course, with all the guarantees that the state needs to give its citizens, to solve some of the acute problems that exist, let's say, in the realisation of the republican budget. Of course, it takes even such ventures as they were in the immediate past, which certainly everyone in the hall thinks failed, that it is necessary even for the new authorities to stand behind them and guarantee their citizens security for the funds invested. And that 56m euros certainly is not a sum that will burden our budget in the coming years, but certainly that trust is much more valuable. Another law that corrects injustice, I assume you'll agree with me, is the law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund Act. Let's remember all those promises we made after October 5th. We heard them from all sides – the first task of the new government in Serbia will be the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, even after the adoption of the Guarantee Fund Act, I have no record that this guarantee fund has come to life and that, in any way, it has succeeded what we all intended, which is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and, of course, new jobs in Serbia. This addition of the law guarantees that the Republic Government is throwing an accent on a guarantee fund, predicting a expansion to users such as farmers, who are, within their households, representatives of some small enterprises, so with the expansion and very rigorous control and resuscitation of the guarantee fund itself, I hope that they will present the basic conditions for resuscitation of small and medium-sized enterprises. And we all have experience over the last two years -- no small and medium-sized enterprises, no trust in our own state, and this mistrust may also be lost because of that loan for Serbia's rebirth. The third law, which is on the agenda, the Law on Payments, I also see one part as gaining confidence in my own country. Financial discipline and special protection of creditors seem to me to guarantee and encourage business people to invest in Serbia. In fact, the current system of protection was not solely for the debtor to act stimulatingly. Manufacturers usually remained short sleeves, and the law was usually on the side of those who owed. It is this law that introduces financial order, and based on experiences in the last two years, that I hope to encourage new investors and that we will certainly provide those conditions that we are talking about, which are primarily the conditions for new investment, production and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1965	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to these laws on today's agenda of the National Assembly, I will look more at the Law on Payments. As for the matter of payment traffic, in my opinion, a new, comprehensive law was to be passed, not to amend and supplement the Law on Payments, which was brought at the level of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and was only transferred to application for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in the Constitutional Mosque and the basis for the adoption of this law, the Proposer called for the Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter in Article 64(2) says – a member of the state community can pass a regulation, and this bill is in any case a regulation, but it would be more comprehensive and rational, more comprehensively, to propose a new, complete payment law, which will be implemented with the solutions already provided for in the amendments and additions to this law. Otherwise, when it comes to the text of this draft law on amendments and amendments to the laws, you are calling for a European Union solution and that one of the conditions for our country's involvement in European financial flows is to adapt the state's payment system to these European rules and standards. However, we have different experiences when it comes to European financial flows on both sides, two-way, both towards Europe and our country. I was going to ask, first of all, the finance minister of Mladjan Dinkic, because at the time he was governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and he was responsible and authorized to answer these questions - of course we in the SRS know the answers, but he is doing many of you who do not know and work for the public - how and what financial flows have been made to pay our country's membership into the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and that illegal payment. I am talking about payment traffic of 93m euros, when Macedonia paid 8.5m euros for the same reason, and Croatia 12m euros. There is no decision by the federal government, nor by the government of Serbia-Montenegro. What financial flows and what decision, in which payment and payment system have been made to deposit funds at the Standard Bank in London, where profits of 2.5m euros per year were made? There's no sign of that money. Where's that money? When we talk about two-way relations, European financial flows and payment traffic, regardless of the regulation that regulates it, and regulates, in an international standard, quite different from what it was, where is the money paid by the French government worth $399,000 to improve the state administration and local self-government? Of course, that money ended up in the cash register G17 plus. Transfer of payment traffic to business banks, regardless of the standard of the European Bank you are referring to, is a good solution. In any case, this should have been done long ago, although it provides for the Law on Payments of the SRJ, which you are now changing, but the question is which banks, and twenty of them have been shut down by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and Mladjan Dinkic, particularly banks: Beobanka, Belgrade Banka, Invest Banka, Jugobanka, due to alleged liquidity. Why could they not be involved in the country's legal and financial system as well? There was great damage to commercial banks and, of course, a large number of workers, and there were about eight thousand who were out of work. What is, at the same time, in this financial part of payment, with the Vojvodjanska Banka, which owed the International Financial Corporation and converted its debt to this World Bank institution, which became the owner of all claims held by the Vojvodina Bank as a trustee for the enterprises and economy of Vojvodina, so that the Vojvodina Bank em is now not the owner of domestic natural and legal persons, but is the owner of the World Financial Corporation I'm not talking about agriculture. I'm talking about the banking system and the payment system. [[Tossing from O.R.: Theme.]] Why does it hurt so much? There's got to be something here. Who owns that bank? An international financial corporation. This is what Mladjan Dinkic, who, along with Miroljub Labus, has enabled this to happen, to tell the people openly, to give information about the situation, about these frauds and about the thieving. It is a good solution to ensure that payment is made in dinars, that the bank is obliged to return misdirected funds to a jury account, that it cannot be made available by those funds. That the forced payment first marked the bank to return to its creditors and only later the other banks, in order for dinar and foreign funds. Of course, it is a good solution that, in the event that no decision of the Law on Payments is implemented on this occasion, the banks and the responsible persons respond and that there are certain sanctions and penalties for the responsible persons and for the banks in the payment system, in the event of forced payment of funds. New categories and new relations in payment traffic are now being introduced, the relationship between the trustee and the recipient and the debtor. These relations have existed before in the course of payment, so that no debtor – the recipient can call off his disbursement of funds to the trustee. There are huge relationships here with a huge secret of money, against the Bank for International Accounts in Basel. The National Bank of Yugoslavia and Mladjan Dinkic, as former governor of the NBJ, and now the finance minister, despite more warnings received from the Bank for International Accounts in Basel, has made foreign exchange payments in Exim, and now EuroAxis Bank in Moscow. The funds were initially about $5m, later reaching up to $50m. The question now arises as to who is the trustee of the state funds paid at EuroAxis Bank for the recapitalisation of the Post Office Savings Bank to companies that were founded only for this reason: "Findale" and "Coprom". Where did the funds come from after being transferred to the accounts of six companies: "Little collective", "Elim", "Principal", "PIMA", "Diners Club" and "Squadra"? Of those six companies, four are from exotic islands, in order to recapitalize... (President: National MP, it is time for you to return to the topic:)... and they became the owners of the National Savings Bank. Are such financial embezzlements and malfeasances excluded, are they disabled? Can anyone propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, which will apply only to natural persons, individual legal persons and banks, and to state officials, the type of Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus, that this is not valid, that they continue to break the law and execute a payment order for certain foreign banks, some of the offshore companies and businesses, and thereby pour out large amounts of government capital? Will it be disabled by this payment traffic and this law? Of course, when it comes to these companies that have become owners of the National Savings Bank, it has also been established by the Ministry of Finance, the Public Defence, the Office for Combating Organized Crime and the Serbian Government that they have no credit, that the state is not the owner of the National Savings Bank, as Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus and others have said in public. Finally, it turned out that there was a serious violation of the basic principles of payment, payment and financial relations, of course, and a violation of the law, which is why someone has to answer. I don't want to call Mladjan Dinkic or Miroljub Labus, I just want to say, if there's law and order, then it takes the public defender's office to do something and the judiciary to take the case to the person responsible for all these embezzlements that have damaged the state by several hundred million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1967	Right to replication, MP Ksenija Milivojevic (the party mentioned).
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1968	I have to admit, I'm impressed by what we heard from two colleagues from the SRS who spoke earlier. Why am I impressed? Because, from what we've heard, the power of Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic is so great that we don't need these laws at all. They're simply unnecessary, because they're so powerful that they privatized the state. But on the other hand, I'm amazed at the ignorance, or I'm amazed that from month to month, whenever a convenient situation is found, although it's not the subject, of course, we're hearing about one of those same alleged, I have to tell the alleged abuses. So I expect at least that minimum fact, or minimum information. In that Corps is the most sympathic, I must admit, a statement that the G17 plus installed the mother-in-law of Mary Rashete-Vukosavljevic some credit. It's really fantastic, since G17 plus just exposed that affair and talked about the conflict of interest, so he also participated in, hopefully in any day, the adoption of a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, so I'm not clear here at all where we were sitting, in any way we could have affected exactly the giving of such a loan when we were against it. Secondly, as far as the G17 Plus case is concerned, it's always up to the public and the competent authorities, so I don't see the need to keep hearing about that crowded register and how we're so rich that we just don't know what to do with the money, and all because through these laws we're trying to get the money back to the citizens that's been stolen from us for years by some previous loan regimes, based on what I don't know about this or that. So when we want that money back, it turns out that we're filling our register one way or another. Please, the least I can say is funny. I won't even talk about the National Savings Bank, because I'm also amazed by the fact that the state, when it was able and when it was able to participate in the capitalisation of the National Savings Bank, for reasons unknown to me, didn't want to. So don't tell any more stories that really citizens don't just don't believe, they're funny. I have to admit that every time I listen to something like this, whether I go out and answer it or not, because every speech you make like that seems to me, just contributes to G17 plus amongst the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1969	I'm sorry, you have no right, you've caused a replica. On what grounds? She's out on the line, sir. (Veroljub Arsic: She mentioned me in her replica. I didn't hear her mention you. We can interpret. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1970	My card's in there, and now that the electronic system's out of order, I'm not guilty. I want to draw attention, you gentlemen's laws from G17 do not need, they need to increase your power. For example, the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act, and in Article 15(2), after the word "Government", the word "Government" is added and "on the proposal of the Minister of Finance Affairs". Who is this minister? Mr. Dinkic. Let's see, Article 19 of Article 2 of the word "business" is replaced by the word "finance." So, the right is taken from Dragan Marsicanin, who is now the minister of the economy and is given the right to the finance minister. Article 12, in Article 20, paragraphs 1 and 2 is replaced by the word "finance". So, you, by your laws and regulations of law, increase your power and you're the ones who ran all the economic and economic flows in the country. When this loan was granted to Mary Raseti-Vukosavljevic, you were in the government with DS, only then were you not a political party, but you were the Institute of G17. It's exactly the same for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1971	Miss Milivojevic, you're only entitled to the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica on the replica. (Ksenija Milivojevic: I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, if you're answering the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. Be nice, sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1972	A famous member of 100. As far as the law itself is concerned, as far as I know about matter, it's a matter of finance, so I don't know who else would be competent to discuss this matter and to discuss it in the government, but rather a resolution minister. So that makes sense to me in my own mind. Furthermore, the G17i Institute still exists, as it existed before, and has nothing to do with the government of Serbia, nor was it at the time you mentioned it, and I will repeat it once more, the G17 plus was in the Republic government with what you said to the Democratic Party. However, your construction was through the G17 Institute, and I really don't have a comment on it because you don't know the facts. So you don't know what the G17 plus is, you don't know what the G17 is, and yet you don't know who was sitting in the Serbian government and in what capacity. Therefore, the facts are as follows: the G17 Plus party was founded on 15 December 2002. That's one fact. The G17 Institute existed before and after, and the representatives of the G17 sat in the federal government until one moment, more precisely by January 2003, and we had the governor of the NBJ, and then Serbia. I'll remind you that those ministers who entered the government as staffs of the G17 plus did not enter the political party G17 plus. So I absolutely don't know how G17 plus could sit in the government during the period you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1974	We may not know anything, but I do know that the current minister was the Minister of Health then, and then he was in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and now he's a member of G17 plus, and then he was a member of the Institute of G17, so isn't that exactly the same. We don't want to talk about the federal government and federal institutions, I'm talking about the republican. Your minister was sitting at that moment when Mary Raseta-Vukosavljevic and you no longer need to justify yourself to us, we know everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1975	Please. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1976	Mr. President, I report to the Rules of Procedure, and I refer to the provisions of Article 1. Rules of Procedure, these Rules of Procedure are arranged by organizations...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1977	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the speaker to address. Here you go. Tell me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1978	I refer to Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: "This Rules of Procedure governs the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament are exercised. "The special international organisation G17 plus unfortunately is in this parliament with 34 MPs and I understand the young likable lady who comes out for this pay phone and says we are not in progress, we do not know and we are not telling the truth. First of all, MPs are responsible for this speaker to address both colleagues and other MPs of the National Assembly and the public with arguments and facts. As an SRS MP, I spoke about financial relations, the rules and standards of the European Union and international financial organisations, the IMF, the World Bank, etc. And in doing so, he made facts and arguments...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1979	Please, Miss Jovanovic, without throwing away, please allow the speaker to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1980	... about financial malfeasances and abuses in the establishment of the Post Office, and to which the young lady from G17 plus said it wasn't true. The post office was founded on December 26th 2001, the founding assembly held that day. On the same day, NBJ, whose governor was Mladjan Dinkic, gives permission and consent that the Post Office meets the conditions to operate and be a bank. After two days, on December 28th, the Trade Court registers the Post Office. Why was Mladjan Dinkic and the others in such a hurry? So they could do business since December 1st, 2002. Of course, 13 founders of banks, companies, etc., not to mention, were suspicious origins and majority property in the Postage Savings. I said there was a public deception that the Post Office is not state-owned, it's not national, despite the name she has - the National Savings Bank. The data now show that the state has 25.23% shares in the National Savings Bank, that it has 13.48% or 10.5% of ownership in the National Savings Bank, regardless of whether the exact data is the first, second or third, the state is not the owner of the National Savings Bank. Mladjan Dinkic spoke ten days after obtaining the permits and later that the National Savings Bank is owned by the majority state. Please, the Ministry of Finance decided on 18 December 2003 to examine how the Post Office was founded. Public Defence, the Serbian government also found in February its decision and the conclusion that the National Savings Office is operating with major violations of the law and the existence of major financial malfeasances and irregularities. These are arguments, not to read to you, ten points the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia concluded that the National Savings Centre was not formed under law, that it was not state-owned and that it was a private financial organization, or bank. Besides, how can he be a bank by international standards? The IMF and the World Bank, in their comments and in its report, said on those days when the National Savings Centre was founded, that the National Savings Bank was not formed in accordance with the law, that the National Savings Bank is too high and in this private initiative unnecessary for payment traffic of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1981	Please, first according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Albianić, and then Miss Milivojevic, but when you refer to a member of the Rules of Procedure, please state what his injury is. In this case, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Also, please, I ask all MPs no matter which party they belong to, allow the speaker to speak, and I ask the speakers to take care of the basic facts, what is the postal and what is the national savings bank, what is the theme of these polemics? Please be kind and take care of your citizens who voted for you. Here you go, Mr. Albianic. You're referring to a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1982	I refer to the following members, not one member; therefore, the previous speaker, not in this speech, but until you, Mr. President, were present, injured Article 97, 99, 100, and otherwise the entire SRS parliamentary group is constantly hurting the Rules of Procedure, Article 116. So, what's this about? The previous speaker was insulting to the political party, G17 Puss. Then, Article 99, the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The 100 - nation MPs are obliged to address with respect and respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 116 - MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, and a word has just been given to some of the MPs who did not have the identification card of the MP. Now, as you can see, they're putting it in. I see the temperature's rising here. Looks like you read in the paper today that maybe the presidential candidate will be from the G17. That looks like you're in pain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1983	Just a second. Let the lady address herself, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the replica, Mr. Wolf. I once again appeal to all parliamentary groups, primarily because of citizens who pay to do the work of MPs here, not presidential candidates, Mr Albianic, that concerns you. Here you go, Miss Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1984	Therefore, since my colleague has called on Article 1, I will refer to that same member: "This Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. "I suppose one of these rights and duties also applies to a topic of discussion that has not been touched here, at least for the last hour. More importantly, I would really ask the MPs from whatever party they come to prepare for the discussion, that is, when they speak they know what they're talking about. The National Savings Bank and the Post Office are two different institutions. So it's not one institution. The post office is in the mail system, and the National Savings Bank. It's simple, let's not confuse the citizens who are following the transfer of this congregation and really act serious. I'm simply speaking to everyone and I really ask you that when you speak, you know exactly what you mean. Also, I spoke very specifically about the National Savings Officer, I didn't talk about the Post Office, and from your presentation, my colleague, I didn't realize what you mean, because you were talking about one thing and the hour the other. I simply ask that we can do this job properly, i.e. to make sure that the citizens understand what we want to tell them, that at least when we prepare the discussion, we do it in accordance with all the facts and that at least we know what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1985	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolfie, replica. Allow me, I think it was a lapus, and I got a little attention a little while ago. Anyway, you want a replica later. It's okay. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask you, Mr. President, to the MPs, at least not from that place, not to explain whether they were wrong or not, if it's something about the essence of the matter, but to go out for a pay phone and tell it. As for the question of whether the National Savings Office or the Post Office, since I've seen napkins of laughter and heard laughs first of all from the parliamentary benches of the regime, I just have to notice that it's nice, let's tell the citizens - you don't know whether it's National or Post Office. We may not know if it's the National or the Post Office, but now I'm going to tell you how it all went, so you'll see how much we know. So, whether it's National or Post Office, we don't know, but if it's a thief, we know it, and we know who did it. We know that for a fact, and we know who the capo di tuti drops in that thieving. This is, of course, about the National Savings Officer and, apart from the facts spoken here by Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, I will say something else that is very important, and it is about the second and third shows of action, about the second and third capitalisation, where absolutely suspicious businesses and companies have become the owners of the majority package of actions of the National Savings Bank. It's about the following companies: Diners, Principe, PIM, Squadra, in the second show of action. On the third show, the action becomes an ELIM and a small collective. What kind of companies are these? About mafia companies, you will now hear about Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic's companies. These companies just happened to be the owners of the National Savings Bank, and quite accidentally their wives hang out with the capo di tuti capi. And one more thing, I don't know if it's the National or the Post Office. I know that while you're in power, you won't even know if it's National or the Post Office. She's going to be saving one of these two. When you're out of power, then you'll know what's going on with the Post Office, and especially what, how and why it ended in such a sad way and the National Savings Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1987	Thank you. Mr. Radovanovic, did you give up? Give up, thank you. Mrs Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, just say the article.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1988	Article 100. It's very, I have to admit, for article 100, because for the last hour and a half, there's been a series of insults on the account of G17 plus and individual personalities from G17 plus, so I'm simply stating the basis. On the other hand, it's interesting that whenever someone else is in power, and it's not the SRS, then there's a thief in the state. So it's a very interesting phenomenon that we've had a chance to see practically since 2000. So, apart from that period, it was a short period of time when the SRS was in power, whether it was as a minority partner or not, it was completely irrelevant, but it was, and only then did the SRS happen in this country, and at the same time it's very interesting that the most theft was right in that period. I don't know who took part in it, and I don't think I'm accusing anyone of it, but on the other hand, this all looks like we're running a campaign, okay, legitimately, but don't take her to the assembly. You had a survey board, and I can't wait to see the survey board's report, see what the concrete results are, but I'm really tired of hearing about all sorts of mobs, these kinds of organizations, about who's the boss of these organizations, etc. These names are not only made public to the public, but not to the competent authorities. There's always talk of a suspicious capitalisation of the National Savings Bank, which happened three months after G17 plus certainly had no more governors of the National Bank. So I absolutely don't understand how G17 plus could have been involved on what basis, except that it's reportedly big thieves and our alleged power. I'd really like to see, as a member of G17 plus, as an MP of G17 plus in this assembly, at least part of the manifestation of that enormous power that you're constantly talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1989	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike Miss Milivojevic, I have quite mastered this matter. The second recapitalisation or other show of action was conducted at the time of Mr Dinkic. It's the one where it's about the Principles, the Diners, the Pimmy and the Squares. Only the third recapitalisation, even though prepared at the time, was conducted at the time of Mrs. Korri Udovici. So much for what the facts are, Miss Milivojevic. I'm interested in something you said. Namely, you're saying, only the short time when the SRS was in power was whether or not there were no thievings. I'm glad you said it was a short time, because it's amazing to me that you're paying so much attention to the SRS and that we, who were so briefly in power, are guilty of 10, 14, 20 and 50 years or I don't know what it's all about. I find it interesting to hear from your leaders at a press conference that, for that reason -- a little and a little bit of the power we were -- they say, we will fight the SRS. Nice, you couldn't make a better SRS propaganda campaign than when you say you're fighting the SRS. Please send us a invoice during the day, we'll pay you exactly for such marketing services, nothing better, he can never do us any better than when someone from G17, someone from the top of the regime, says he'll fight the SRS. It's all for free and for nothing, because all of you, all of you together, have only one common denominator, which is that you are against the SRS and against Tomislav Nikolic. This election is attended by one candidate, Tomislav Nikolic, and another candidate, and that is all those who are against Tomislav Nikolic, so we have two candidates in the election in total. Be assured that the candidate who is against Tomislav Nikolic, and has no name or last name, knows nothing or how he works in his life, will lose anyway. Don't worry about what the report will be. It may be favourable for you, you may have a majority on the survey board, it's possible, as you know, but don't worry, I guarantee you that there will be a lot of opinions, and then it will separate the opinion to break into books, and then it will talk about it in length and wide. And the whole public of Serbia and Serbian citizens will certainly know about who managed the thieving, who led the actions, who and how protected the biggest criminals and mobsters in Serbia. And they have names and we've never feared their names loud and clear to say. I just said them. You want me to tell you: Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1991	Time, Mr. Wolf. Thank you. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1992	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind the esteemed viewers that those who think that the topic of this session is not G17 plus and various savings banks, but laws that will allow them to receive loans and laws that will give them back the money they gave as a loan for the rebirth of Serbia. This was a small trip and, colleague Milivojevic, don't be surprised, each of us has some nightmares and paranoia. Someone here has it from the MPs, and someone, you'll see it later, like me, in the last three years, they've lost a little sight. But that's not what I wanted to talk to you about. In principle, I don't want to talk about the laws I support. But there's one reason I'm going to talk here, only about the Guarantee Fund Act and only because it allows farmers to get credits for which guarantees will be provided by the Guarantee Fund. Before that, or before I speak specifically, I would like to make one personal opinion, one of my own views. If you remember, Minister Mladjan Dinkic said in his presentation that the right to use these funds would have legal persons and farmers. A colleague who spoke before me, I think his last name is Martic, said that agricultural households look like small businesses. I think that's exactly what I'm trying to point out, the registration of agricultural households should be the introduction that agricultural households are no longer natural persons, i.e.. Farmers, but to become legal persons. It will only be a step that will bring rebirth to the village and allow peasants to live better and more pleasantly and to produce easier. Like I said, I'm one of those MPs who's lost his sight while I'm sitting here, but in any case, I have no fears or paranoia. Why the inclusion of peasants is important, i.e. farmers in loan users covered by this law? There are several reasons. First, there's what farmers and farmers deserve to get these loans and I need to present some of the figures they're talking about the most. For example, in 1999, the participation of agriculture and food industry in the creation of Serbia's social product was 25%. With the food industry, the production of drinks and tobacco, it was about 33% or a third of gross social product. The increase in production in the agricultural sector in 2001 was 25% compared to 2000, so only agricultural production increased the social product by 5% that year. It is also a high participation of the agrossectorals in our country's exports and it is 16% in 2001, and it is often one quarter or 20%. This is just saying that agriculture belongs to branches that have a great share in all sectors of production and deserve all of this. Otherwise, all of this applies at a time when the agricultural combinations or the social sector are completely destroyed and so to say do not participate in the production or very little participate in the previous period. Otherwise, ownership of agricultural land, cattle and even agricultural property is about 90% in peasants, and they have been bypassed for all this time, and they haven't actually been able to get loans. Otherwise, the main objections to everyone since 2000 have been why there is no loan for farmers and the main requirements have been since 2000 - give us the loans. Now I'm going to get the information out why these loans need to be made available as soon as possible and as soon as possible for the villagers to get it. These are data from socio-economic movements in 2003, which say: "Assessed that agricultural production in 2003 dropped by 5.7%, due to poor weather conditions. Ratio and vegetables have seen a 25.9% decline, conditioning that plant production is lower by 15.6%. In particular, it undermined the production of wheat and corn, which compared to the previous year had a fall of 39.1% and 31.7% respectively. On the other hand, the production of sunflowers, plums and raspberries was above that average and it was the most involved, especially raspberries, in exports." Otherwise, the loans that farmers will receive through a guarantee fund will mainly make it easier for farmers to work and make it more efficient, and the benefit will be the whole society. And don't forget, gentlemen, that peasants don't raise loans to buy luxury cars, to travel to sea and abroad, but to raise loans to buy tractors, racial throats, fertilizers and re-promatter, and we all benefit from that, so both the state and the citizens of this country. With such a credit policy, farmers will be able to repay a significant increase in production, thus processing, and hopefully exports. It'll give you a chance to see very quickly, but in the fall. The law will have a particularly important impact on the allocation of funds to underdeveloped regions. Undeveloped regions are mainly agricultural regions, so loans that are granted to farmers in these areas will bring multiple benefits. The young will have the incentive to stay on their property and thus the very poor age structure of the resident will be improved, and the loans will undoubtedly help develop undeveloped areas. This will even reduce the pressure of young people on working desks and open up space for the unemployed in the cities. Now there is one problem I would particularly like to point out here, which is that the situation on the ground and in bureaucracy, even in law enforcement, can undo the good intentions that exist in the new law, which is that property owners are mostly parents or even grandfathers of young peasants who deal with agricultural production. They don't need credit. So, older people don't think about improving production, increasing production, and loans need their grandchildren or sons, and they're not owners. I suggest that in the accompanying documents, young peasants prove their production and their participation in the household, so that they live in that household, by being retired and legally secured through the household. Otherwise, we already have a problem with giving repromaterials, negotiating for wheat on green because many combined and agricultural cooperatives have been shut down and there is no one to distribute. So, keep that in mind, and I guarantee you that my fellow peasants will return this to larger production and larger gross social product, and the G17 plus knows that this is just the first step in the sea of steps to make agriculture stand on its feet and take its place in this country, the one that belongs to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1993	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic. Happy Peric isn't here. There's a word from MP Darko Glisic. He's not here. The Messenger of the people, Nikola Novakovic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mita Avram. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it says here that the MP on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. It is obvious, Mr Markovic, that there are MPs on the right of our Parliament working as professionals in the Assembly, so I ask that they put in cards all the time of the Parliament's work and take care of this member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1995	Of course I'm asking all the MPs to keep an eye on their constant work. The People's Messenger Nikola Novakovic has the word and let the People's Messenger Mita Avramov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1996	My ladies MPs, fellow MPs, I don't know what caused this atmosphere in the National Assembly, but believe me, I don't like it at all. We have on one side the atmosphere of the ancient Greek congregation, a long-forsaken system of applause for speakers, and on the other side there are people who listen and say -- who got a stronger round of applause, that's more right. I don't think there's any need to applaud. On the other hand, we attended an hour here a rather amateur duel of one of the freshman debate clubs of any law school. This is Parliament, and serious things happen here. Whoever comes out here is responsible for what he said, morally, of course. We have before us one law and two amendments and additions, and in my view, very important laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We read them well, and we see no reason why these laws should not be passed, but in doing so we deeply appreciate the difficulties that Serbian Radical Party MPs face, because they believe that they must be against the opposition in advance. No, that's why I don't like the atmosphere. I agree, we should say what the group thinks or personally, what's wrong with the law, submit the amendment and then discuss it. Generally, without valid arguments, to stray from various national savings banks, etc. I don't think that's the way. Just a few more sentences, because I have to remind you, and I'm very disorderly speaking backwards; my nature is today, and so forward. It's just that I think we can make some improvement and get to that so-called. A better future. No one believed in 2000 that the old foreign currency savings would be returned. No one believed there would be no inflation. No one believed or at least experts and a large part of the public suspected a positive result of the transfer of payment traffic from the Social Accounting Service or the PDO to banks. Today you don't talk about it anymore and it's an absolutely normal thing. Not to talk about the mark course, or later the euro, and the conversion, and all that work. Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the honesty and effectiveness of the law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development. And this is the first time you've talked about this and talked about it, but believe me, it's the last time, because if the law is passed, all the obligations that stand, by this law, on the side of the country will be fulfilled, just as it says. Criticizing the guarantee fund law because the bank is chosen by a public tender, I don't think it's wise. And how else? Criticizing that even peasants will be able to participate in obtaining credit, I also don't think it's wise. And finally, the latest law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, which rounds up a whole of payment traffic and fully aligns this area with European regulations, also do not think it is wise. We'll see how it works in practice, because we should also learn to apply that law, but beyond any doubt, we've taken this one big step forward. Finally, although I am in danger of being warned by the chairman, I will honestly tell you who will be president of the Republic of Serbia. The one the Serbian citizens choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1997	Thank you. The word of the people is the messenger of Mit Abraham. Let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, excuse me, Mr. Avramov, the word is Mr. Michael's. You'll tell me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1998	The member is Article 82(4). Unfortunately, this time I have to refer it to the President of the Assembly, because he's too tolerant and too kind, and you don't understand that language. Article 82(4) states - the quorum is determined by applying the electronic voting system by making each MP be identified when entering the hall by inserting the identification card into the MP's unit. As far as I can tell, you don't do that, but I know for a fact that you always do the quorum when you raise your diaries and pay, and I could warn the public not to see you here until you put your cards in; so get out, it's your right not to be in the O.R., nobody forbids you. You know that, I know that well, and we won't mind at all, nor will we miss you, but if you want to participate in the discussion, in the work here, then please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I'd like you to ask the gentlemen to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u1999	Thank you. I will continue to work on the Rules of Procedure, and whenever I consider it necessary to access it, I will ask for access to it, and in the meantime, please, I will act as I did earlier and say, to Article 99, and please do not insult other parliamentary groups. They and how they understand tolerance. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm about to show you that the SRS and all its members, especially those in the O.R., have the greatest heart and that you can all stand in it, you who are here, and those who are not. I don't want to criticize anyone. I'll show you that radicals want to help, normally, if you listen to them. What the radicals say is, and if it's good, you only refuse it because it's radical. A debt that our country has of three billion, as it will return, I don't think this government, in one way or another, with this set of laws, has a chance to fulfill, and make it easier for citizens to secure a better life. In order for this debt to return primarily, we need to start the economy, the main momentum, to get to healthy couples, that is. We have to produce something. We have to sell something to the world. We need to get to a healthy currency, and there is no way to repay the debt or to owe a new money contingent, but with the condition that someone who is here in this country, like Mladic or Karadzic, is being delivered. Because it's just terms to get a loan. It's not to get money without having to come back. So, to get credit, that's one of the basic conditions, we read about it in the paper, where the Prime Minister himself apologized and said there's no record that they're in our country, but I don't think that's going to happen. In order to combat the grey economy, funds must be launched and created to launch small and medium-sized enterprises. The SRS said this in its campaign, how and how to get the money, so that these small or medium-sized enterprises could be financed, which is from the sale of existing companies, that these funds should be channelled right into this development programme. People who deal with the gray economy are mostly our workers who are out of work in late years, when they are no longer able to start something else to do, and they are not for retirement, and no one like that wants to. They have to survive, create how much-so-existness they have to make for their children, so they have to deal with all kinds of smuggling, cigarettes, etc. That's not the main problem of our country and our society. The main problem is this one – start the main momentum, hire the worker, return him to his workplace and achieve public works. These are basic conditions and preconditions to get healthy money so we can really work, because we have a lot of natural resources in our country. We've got energy, they're the main triggers for machines. We have our Vojvodina, which is the main driver for the human machine, for human nutrition. We have a healthy soil that hasn't been infected yet. We've got healthy water that hasn't been infected yet. We have to keep it safe and we have to cash it. The West is interested in everything that's healthy, they want us to. No one in Europe has any healthier water than we do. Water's being bought. If we behave like this, like so far, with all kinds of hebrids and we'll buy it, but I don't know where. So we have a lot of resources, a lot of things we can cash in, get to healthy capital, so we can improve the living conditions of all citizens in our republic. We're no group of experts, but the people will show in these elections who the experts are, who they trust and who they'll get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2001	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of Takac Istvan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2002	It is a pity that these three laws are joined into one item of the agenda, so perhaps a more quality debate on these bill proposals remains. But let's start in a row. In turn, this is primarily the proposal for a law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development. All these laws have several dimensions. These laws make it clear to the government that they are fulfilling pre-election promises in this way. It's government law. Whether someone likes it or doesn't like it doesn't matter. The important thing is that this is how the government tries to regulate what it has promised. We have submitted several amendments to this bill, with the aim of making certain standards precise, and I must say and remove some basic ignorances of the system to divide the authorities in our country, so that this law can be implemented as effectively, efficiently and precisely as possible. The second dimension of this bill is that so-called Promoting. On behalf of the promoter, it is reportedly being promoted by one ministry that is effective. At the head of the ministry, an efficient man, effectively won the National Bank, effectively regulated the succession, effectively shut down the banks, effectively made it known to everyone not to implement any decisions by the Federal Constitutional Court, all efficiently, all quickly. A member of a young generation of economists who understand only the value of capital and subjects of one mentality of Western Europe – how to fold as much as possible. Of course, it's not a newspaper in this National Assembly. And in the last term, we had the opportunity to look at a different composition of the Republic government. We had a minister who we called "Mister Euro", because in every sentence he bid on the amount of foreign exchanges that were received on the basis of donations and assistance, so when that variant was read by all MPs, then he began as arguments that he was bringing in professors of law school, who were held in this room for just five minutes and fled without a trace, embarrassed that they were in the company of such a minister. In the last term, we had a finance minister who tried in every way possible to gain as much power as possible. Almost everything that has any touchpoints with "f" has been set up by the Ministry of Finance: public procurement, property, payments, budget, budget system, control. It was an omnibus, a hyperglomic ministry, that really needed a genius. However, no genius has saved the country's finances, except for one artificially maintained monetary stability. We have complete destruction in society and our economy. It's good when the state is trying to settle its obligations to its citizens. That's the media effect of this law. Why? When an ordinary citizen hears that a law is passed which requires funds to be returned, then few who have the courage to be against that law, because by the logic of things, the citizens say – the one who is against this law does not want my funds to be returned to me, which are frozen in some account, or the funds that someone has spent. That's where you probably made it. Probably no one's attacking the idea of paying back these foreign funds. You didn't even get a chance to hear it from the SRS. I draw attention to one of the predecessors, who just said, made a classic replacement for the thesis, that the SRS is against the fact that peasants can borrow credit, when it comes to the next law and that the SRS is against the state's obligation to comply with its obligations to its citizens. Don't go with such petty pranks. Our citizens know very well what this is about. Of course, we are in favour of the state fulfilling its obligation, but we have both the right and the obligation to say that we are not subject to conditions, in ways and means, especially in the wrong direction. It is our right, and that is why we have submitted amendments, that the law be arranged a little bit, so that during the implementation of this law no one will have a headache, that no survey committee be formed, so that there is no need to talk in the media about the application of this law, because nothing can happen in this country without an affair. It is our right to say – wherever money, bills and finances occur, there is G17 plus. Rarely anyone can deny us. That's right. Self-proclaimed experts. Anyone can be an expert and shut down the banks. The one who has provided funds in the budget, which has no blockade, which has no sanctions and can create some kind of return dynamic, of course would propose a similar law that settles obligations to citizens. They probably couldn't have been carried out during sanctions, blockades or NATO aggressions. There's no need to make this epochal. Who's going to settle the obligation? Of course, taxpayers, tax payers, excises, which fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because only from those funds and can be provided in the budget of the money to repay the loan. There's no new hole in the pot. That's the only way the state can work. What concerns us is, if a member of the 7th law is mentioned that administrative affairs in the implementation of this law are carried out by the Ministry of Finance, then other jobs should not be asked by the Ministry of Finance, but, above all, by the Government. Speaking of knowledge and ignorance, it must be known when the law regulates something and decides who should enforce the law and it is said to be the Government; then it is not further entered into internal relations between the government and the authorities under the government. It's a rule of law. When it is said - some commission, then whoever writes it in the law must specify what the commission means, whether the working body is a government, a state or a para-state body, in order to know what is the possibility of a man protecting his rights. You wrote in this article "educated the commission", and then you said "against the commission's decision to conduct a administrative dispute". Based on that, the Government Commission is a state body. Take a little check. If you had a proper Republic Legislative Secretariat, this couldn't have gone into the draft of this bill, let alone to come before the MPs of the National Assembly. It's not enough to write that down, but it must also be taken into account the rights of people, the right to appeal, the right to protect their interests, if the state authority has made a mistake in the application of the law. That's what you had to take care of, as you had to in Article 12, in the case of conversion and these other things, throw out the ministry. The Ministry can't be that organ that's going to work, it can't. That's some major shortages. The government has accepted our two amendments, and it would have been better if it had accepted all the amendments, then it would have had as much orderly a law, applicable, clearly demarcated rights and obligations. The next thing I'd draw your attention to you, it's not good for you to say in article 4, that rights don't go out of date. By this law, you give your soul to these laws that you put out of force. Of course, none of the rights of a citizen who has entered and paid for his savings are out of date. You don't need to put it here, you can only create a confusion in the implementation and application of this law. This law converts obligations towards citizens. What conversion? Since deadlines have expired and the state has failed to fulfil its obligation, this law regulates its commitments and has nothing to go on. You certainly had to make sure that you had little to do with this law and that you had little to do with the finance minister, your efficiency and speed can also show as a member of the government in a different way, but you couldn't get the ministry into this business, so before the government was an executive body. As far as this second law is concerned, it's a law on amendments and additions to the Guarantee Fund Act. Just for a reminder, last year, and I think it was autumn, a few days lasted to discuss this law, about the Guarantee Fund Act. That law is somehow passed in the National Assembly. They've all made numerous objections to that law. First, that regulates a matter that shouldn't be in the jurisdiction of the state. It's regulated matter that needs to be left to banks and their business policies. How did that fund form, by law? He formed himself by not even standing in one member as to what the underlying capital of the fund is. It was formed by obtaining jurisdiction from the Ministry of Privatisation, and the change now requires it to be no longer the authority of the Ministry of Privatisation and Economy rather than the Ministry of Finance. Whoever proposed this bill obviously didn't read his Ministry Act. In that provision of the law that regulates the work of the Ministry of Finance and the broadest interpretation, there is no link between the Guarantee Fund and the Ministry of Finance. So, the change of this law is needed to fulfill two promises: one thing is that farmers and the other will be seen to take the job to the Ministry of Finance. By the way, it's got to say that bad law gets worse with these changes and supplements, and here's why. Because of the fact that Article 4. The bill gives the Fund the right to place free funds in the way the finance minister wishes. Then we'll have practically one dance. Billion and a half are reportedly allocated in the budget to the Guarantee Fund, led as funds of investment in the economy from the budget, may be on the account of the Fund, and will be able to place those funds, i.e. to issue guarantees and superguarantee on the basis of these funds, depending on the business banks. This law protects banks, not those who take loans from banks. So there's no protection here for non-economics or peasants who would take credit, so no bank gives under favourable terms of credit. Look at the interest rates. We almost don't have domestic banks, they're all foreign banks. They've only been slightly credit-active for the past year, but much more to the individuals, where there's a possibility of providing credit. As far as legal persons are concerned, you know, rarely anyone who takes credit does not meet the condition. Where to enter a mortgage when half the state isn't in public books. It's these big, big technical problems that make it impossible for business banks to lend credit because they're big risks. Since it's a big risk, then interest rates are much higher and it's invaluable loans. These outstanding loans would be provided by the Government through the Guarantee Fund by guaranteeing the banks involved in the business. It is one of the election promises and there are reportedly surveyed agricultural producers, peasants, as they are reportedly going to take the loan. That same story was in this National Assembly last year. That fund wasn't even formed. The paper was formed. What kind of activity does he have? In December of the month some money was provided from the sale of tobacco industries, etc. What are the effects of that, so why didn't we get the results of this fund's work out of the reason for this law? No results. We're passing the law to say we've fulfilled our promises. Guarantees and superguarantee will be provided, that's not the problem, but the problem is that business banks won't lend loans as favourable as someone thinks they should be favourable. We're in a vicious circle. Is it possible to get out of this? Probably under the impression of privatisation, and why not say the destruction of our economy, starting with those crisis headquarters, that is, to remember, the coalition is here, which also designed the crisis headquarters in November, October and December 2000, which destroyed our economy, the governance structures are destroyed - what it is doing in this country. What companies do they do? Who has a special interest in forming a small and medium-sized enterprise. Foreign transport is liberalized. Our economy can't handle the goods that come from abroad. It's that vicious circle. These are the government's promotional moves – here, we did, and what you don't use, I don't know, we'll see, maybe it will be. Perhaps the best evidence for this kind of promotion is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments. The law was passed in the Federal Assembly while the SRJ existed. The proposed law was not the Ministry of Finance, or the Federal Government, but the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia at the time. More widely interpreted, he could have been a proposer. The law has been passed. The law has a total of 59 members. Today, there is a law on amendments to that law, which has 46 members, of which 42 members refer to the amendments of these 59 members. What does that mean? Easily, prematurely, unprofessionally, insufficiently aware of the consequences of the transition of payment traffic to business banks. A year before the application of the law, the minority passed the law, and when the law was passed in January, we had about 2-3 months of chaos in banks. Now it's supposed to have been stabilized, and now in the image of the finance minister, former NBJ Governor is proposing to change his epochal work. What changes, from 59 members to 42, must be made. Of course, some must because of foreign exchange business and other things that happened in the meantime. I'd like to draw attention to those provisions regarding forced collection. You're all the witnesses to those massive blockages of all accounts that have one legal face. Ten, 15 days can't work until there's a claim there. It was supposed to mean practically a year and a half to understand, so a year of law enforcement, and two years of law-making to realize that this is a bad solution. Last time in the Federal Assembly was epochal, today again epochally in line with modern achievements. It's the same as if the labour law were passed. He says it's supported by the International Labour Organization. All experts have interpreted in the world that it's best, and when you look at the Internet, everyone criticises and says, "We never told them, bring such a law." The fact that someone isn't informed, can't stop him, can't talk a little bit to see what's going on here. It is a promotion of the new finance minister, a promotion of the G17 Puss party, which will say that within the month since it entered the government it has fulfilled almost all its promises. The effects, they're gone, there won't be. There won't be any effects. The effect will be that the Ministry of Economy will come to the Ministry of Finance and look at the miracle now. We're talking again about preaching and ignorance. When a norm is determined by a competent authority of the executive authority, then it is not written who is his proposer, because if you sign that the Proposer is the Ministry of Finance, then no one else can propose to the Government but only the Ministry of Finance, and you, in the organization of the Government, have a staff committee, which is staffing in all places. Why this urge is needed to potentiate the Ministry of Finance. That's what Djelic was doing. We begged him here, we begged him. In the end, even his parents wouldn't listen to him when he was talking from this pay phone. Consider some things, some standards, and when it's written down and what it's logical to mean in the context of some other norms. So if you're counting on media attention and advertising, that's where you definitely scored. If you count on the effects, first of all these two laws, that's where you're lost, they'll come to you as a boomerang, because you chose the wrong way and completely wrong means. The funds are wrong because citizens will have great attention, great interest, and when incompetence occurs, especially these changes concerning the Guarantee Fund Act, then you will be called. Vlahovic and those in the previous government were also named because of this same law, because here they said, we did a big job, and in practice it's zero. Nothing happened, we warned them in time that it wasn't enough, nor was it well designed. If you think you're regulating something, then be the founders of a development bank, which will place funds for certain projects under well-fused conditions. Be, but come up with it. This is how you offer a law that will essentially not be enforceable. You don't offer protection to a peasant or a small businessman, you offer to a bank that's supposed to lend him credit. Under what conditions does she have to give him credit? Take a walk from banks to banks and you see. How do you get a mortgage? Today everyone's looking for a mortgage as a means of security of credit. Where to sign up, who to sign up, how to sign up, why would a peasant write a mortgage on his real estate due to a loan with some big interest. How do you think you're affecting bank business policy? By proposing to the fund's staff, he'll be the finance minister. That's no guarantee. It's not human guarantees. It's condition and material resources. That's our guarantee. It's illusory to talk about these moves of yours, considering who owns the banking system in our country, under what conditions our banks operate, under which conditions they approve loans, what foreign trade is, how goods from abroad come into competition primarily with our goods. If you put all this in one context, you'll see that this is inadmissible. This is inapplicable especially when it comes to the Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2003	Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic reportedly, and then MP Takac Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this previous presentation of the SRS MPs, there have been attempts at expert criticism, and as MPs themselves have acknowledged and attempted promotional political criticism. I'll answer one thing first, then the other. As for the remarks that the alleged deadline for the loan is too long, four years, I can only ask one question to the radicals: why did radicals not pass this law while they were in power? They were in power in the 1990s, why they did not return the money they took in 1989 to Serbian citizens. You've been in power since 1998, 1999, so you were safe in the coalition government where you could propose this law. If you're looking for shorter payouts, my question is why, a few years ago, when you were in power, you didn't propose that law. It'd probably all be paid by now. The second thing, as far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, I don't see what the objection is that the assets of the guarantee fund are held in the banks that are selected by the tender. Do radicals think a direct contract should be made? Do the people who work at the Guarantee Fund need to settle what bank they're going to put money in to get a commission? Is this the style of work applied in the municipality of Zemun and other municipalities in which they were in power? The tender is the only way, a public tender to get... I'm talking about the subject, you're criticizing... (Milovan Radovanovic throws out of place. (President: Please don't throw away. )......................................................................................................... What is the nature of the tender of the assets in the banks? There's no other transparent way but a public tender. As for the alleged inconsistencies of the law, let us see if this law will be implemented. It is true that only 100 million dinars were foreseen in the previous law, which is insufficient. It's true that the fund had some administrative restrictions that made it unworkable. That is why the government has also proposed a change of laws. Of course, this law is enforceable, because the government in the budget predicted a billion and a half dinars, so 15 more for these purposes, and the amount of guarantees is up to 80% and for undeveloped areas and for the insurance of loans in agriculture. As for the remarks from where the finance ministry is responsible for bank credit insurance operations, I would ask the SRS group and all others who have this criticism to read the Ministry Act, which was adopted here two months ago. It clearly and unequivocally states that banking credit insurance operations are responsible for the Ministry of Finance. As for the Law on Payments, it is true that it is changing for a year and three months after the entry into force of this law. It's just that when you're making a system change, like a payment transfer from the PDO to the banks, you can't predict all the things that will happen in the implementation. Unlike other former Yugoslavia countries, Serbia has managed to prepare for only six months to move payment traffic to banks and the results have been such that our transition has been the most efficient. There was no chaos in the banks. There was a discrepancy in the first month, not in three months, as the previous MP said, and now the system is working perfectly. Why is the law changing? In one section relating to the forced collection of enterprises -- that's what's rightly noticed, there's a law unsettled -- I have to tell you, nowhere in the world does a central bank make a forced payment. She's not in charge of those jobs. Nowhere in the world, the central bank does business of collecting final accounts, credits. So that's what courts or specialised institutions do. The problem is there was no institution in Serbia that could take over. The National Bank of Serbia is the country's best organised institution, and if the National Bank hadn't taken over the mandatory collection process only then would the collapse have occurred, because the courts were certainly as inefficient as they are, ineffective, unable to do the job. While I was governor, as well as the current leadership of the National Bank of Serbia, I can't wait for the job of forced collection to go to court, but I'm afraid the simple judiciary isn't ready for the job. That's why we're changing this payment law. However, I must note this second dimension; therefore, I must say to Mr Krasic that the Serbian government has accepted those amendments to the SRS relating to professional technical and editorial remarks and you know well that we have accepted two to three amendments, but we do not accept false accusations. So, what is true, what is an improvement in the law, will always be accepted by the government, no matter which parliamentary group made a complaint, but never, not personally, nor will the government accept false accusations. Milorad Mircic throws it out of place. You know what... (President: Please, no throwing.) ) The previous speaker and previous speakers reportedly mentioned that G17 plus, and to me personally, we were only concerned about how to fold as much money as possible. That's enough. I have to tell you, there's been a lot of slander. How come the SRS scares exactly the G17 plus? Why you? Because you know, gentlemen of the radicals, that I live in an apartment of 73 square meters in New Belgrade, and that Tomislav Nikolic of the state of Serbia, from the government got an apartment of 160 square meters on a gift... (President): Please... ) Alexander Vukic also received an apartment on a gift. That Gordana Pop-Lazić had sold out 17 bars and apartments in Zemun municipality while working; from where Gordani Pop-Lazić owned 1000 m2. (President): Please, sir... You're talking here...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2005	Mr. Dinkich, please stick to the subject. Gentlemen, please respect article 99. And don't throw away the speaker. Please, go ahead. So, once again, please, and you stick to the subject, I ask all MPs to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2006	I simply intend to stick to the subject in the same way as the MPs of the SRS did. Is it true or not that Tomislav Nikolic, as director of the Zemun municipality's business space, contributed to the SRS profiting and signing a sales contract, i.e. renting a magistrate's building for just 1.57 dinars per square metre. Just because others kept quiet about it doesn't mean the G17 plus is gonna keep quiet about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2007	Please, the subject, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2008	The theme is the answer to the false accusation that the finance minister, that the G17 plus works just to garner as much as possible. It's something we can't allow anymore, because it's just been done by those who worked on it. The second thing was that there was a silent political agreement with some former and ruling parties to remain silent about it. That's enough, no more time to keep quiet. How can Gordana Pop-Lazic get 1,000 m2 of business space and sell it all out? Was that it? It's about a former minister in the Serbian government...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2009	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2010	Then, how can you talk about any case and have the moral right to lead the survey committees, if Mr. Vukic, as director of Pinkia, has in due time transferred the money to print the party's New Serbia list. Is it moral and fair that the funds of the Zemun municipality are used to issue a party list? Finally... Mr Dinkic... )......................................................................................................... the complete management of the radicals took part in this 1000-square-square-purchasing scandal and the construction of a building in Zemun. (President): Please... )......................................................................................................... from Tomislav Nikolic, Vukic, Gordana Pop-Lazic. You think you have the right to tell everyone what you want and expect everyone to stay calm and keep quiet. Well, you won't be able to, at least not with me and not with G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2011	Please, replicas, Mr. Vukic, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, looks like before he entered this hall, he ate goldfish again, something went wrong in his head, which is why he said noorous lies and nonsense. Of course, we had various finance ministers. They ran different kinds of hickeys and harangs against Serbian radicals, different species. They made things up, they said things, we survived them all, but we never had a minister who didn't know how to say anything about his job, who doesn't bother talking about it, but he goes out here and I guess he's got it, he doesn't know what he's going to do, he starts yelling, because there's no argument, and he thinks he's as strong as he's loud. You're not, Mr. Dinkic, unfortunately, at the place of the finance minister, and I apologize to the others for being forced to call you a gentleman, because you're one common thief and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2013	Mr. Vukic, according to article 99, you have no right to speak of private life, which is who you eat and do not have the right, you know by attitude 3, to use offensive expressions. Please, make an account, in the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll have to give a warning, that applies to each of the speakers at the pay phone. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2014	So, why didn't you say and do it when the man I regretted to call a gentleman said here?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2015	I was talking, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2016	And he wasn't warned he'd get a warning, because he has to save 3,000 dinars, regardless of the three billion he's robbed so far. So, ladies and gentlemen, I need to tell you a few things. Tomislav Nikolic doesn't have a 200-square apartment. The apartment he won under the law you took from him, Mr Dinkic, and you should know that you kidnapped him from the opposite constitution, because the law was retroactive. And Tomislav Nikolic lives in a 90-square apartment today, if that's what you're interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2017	Mr. Vukiæu, it is forbidden to talk about the private life of the MPs, and especially to enter into sales contracts for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2018	Mr. Markovic, I didn't make sales contracts, I'm offering a good and favourable transaction...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2019	Do not offer other people's property from the National Assembly's pay phone and it is not correct to Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2020	Here, Mr. Dinkic, I offer my property to your property in relation to 1 to 5, I offer no one else's property, but mine. Take it now or give it up. I can offer that and stop lying from here. Let's see what Mr. Dinkic says next, I wasn't listening to him, I had better things to do, but what I heard, I'm going to comment on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2021	There you go. You got a minute to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2022	No, I still have 20 minutes, because no one from the parliamentary group used it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2023	I'm sorry, you've reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2024	Okay, then I'll get back to you with that. Says Mr. Dinkic that Mrs. Pop-Lazic has 1,000 squares. No, I went to Mrs. Pop-Lazic once. I can't say that we see each other very often outside of work, that we see each other in private. Sold? She didn't sell, Mr. Dinkich. You learned to sell everything, and she didn't sell anything because it wasn't hers either, Mr. Dinkic. The fact that you've given some newspapers something like that, the fact that you've been involved in that dirty campaign, it's good that you've finally pointed out that lead, that we know who's behind it, that we know who came up with it. As for New Serbia, I have never helped New Serbia. I don't know if Mr. Ilic is here to say it. I've never helped the New Serbia list. You read something in the papers that wasn't even true, because I was just a laptop for something that was completely normal, as well as for all the other newspapers. As for my job at Pinky, leave today, seven years later, ask the Pinky employees, everyone will tell you only to return that time and that you are not in power at all. Be sure of that. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf. I'm finishing up, Mr. Markovic, a few more sentences. Mr. Dinkic, in the end, there is a national court for all of this. You were talking about Zemun here, attacking his time as Vojislav Seselj that he hired his son. It is, to be a physical worker. Let me ask you now, Mr. Dinkic, how many votes did your politics get in Zemun? Do you know how much? For as much as I've offered you to exchange our property. Five times less votes you got. Five of those who vote for the Serbian Radical Party come to your one. It will be, Mr Dinkic, that there are at least five times as many honest people in Zemun who know they should vote for the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2025	Replica, Gordana Pop-Lazic; replica, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2026	Mr. Minister, I didn't expect you to be involved in this convocation with some imaginary house that's being attributed to me. A representative of the government, the previous one, tried for the same pay phone, and then, after a while, apologized for what he did, realizing that he was wrong and that someone planted it on him. So the notorna is a lie that it's my house and it's my father's house. Everything I've gotten in my life, and I've only gotten three kids and a few things... (President: Mr. Wolf, don't disturb the speaker, be kind. )......................................................................................................... I got fair with my work. To prove it to you, I've been waiting for this government to form a housing commission and I've applied for an apartment assignment. My five-member household is without a settled housing issue and to see how the government will have one single apartment without giving the apartment to Gordani Pop-Lazic. I'm gonna ask for a loan, I'm not looking for an apartment for 40 years, just like you're giving everyone else. That's how much I can pay off my salary to pay off the war and settle my family's housing issues, but you're now in an unprotected area. You know that this government is going to fall on you and you're taking the guard, and we're getting ready to tear it down right on you, and I'm not going to tell you what we've prepared for you. We're waiting for a good time, so let's call you back. I'm not going to say that you're a thief, as my colleague said, but you're a criminal because you committed an armed incursion at the National Bank, and if this state were a legal state, you wouldn't be a minister but you'd be in jail. I promise you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2027	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, even you are subject to the law. Respect him, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2028	Once we're a deciding factor in this country, you'll be in jail. So don't do things like that. No one in this country will believe you. Whoever was watching the Survey Committee, no matter what the report is, it is clear to him that you are closely connected both to Hamovic and Lazarevic, and that you are involved in this mob around the EPS. Therefore, this is no contradiction to you. Think about it the next time you accuse someone and report them to me, please, who gave them to me, you'll get a ticket from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2029	Here you go, Mr. Krassic. Please, once again, I'm warning you, according to Article 99(3), I will not allow insults. Please, I've warned everyone who spoke offensively from the pay phone. Be nice, I keep saying that. Next time, I'll have to give a warning, but I've been warning the third speaker in a row for the third time. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2030	In my replica, I will limit myself to what Minister Dinkic has led to refer to me. You say you accepted three amendments and you couldn't accept the others because they contained false accusations. These are amendments, the proposal to amend, supplement a member, is not an indictment. You're probably expecting some kind of indictment, so for every piece of paper, you think it's an indictment. There are no false accusations. In our amendments, it is very precise how the corresponding member should be changed. There's no charge. The indictments have their content, can be a bit larger, on many sides, a proposal to produce evidence etc. You haven't been in the debate since the beginning, so you've been misinformed. You said here that Serbian Radical Party MPs were looking for a shorter deadline to pass this return law. No, that's not what the Serbian Radical Party MPs said, they did not comment. Why hasn't the law been passed before? Why was the law not passed while we were in power since 24 March 1998, so, as a coincidence of the date, the bombing began on March 24, 1999, so the DOS came after that, so look at the coincidences of October 5th, so Mr Dinkic with those witnesses, with those hats, broke in and won the National Bank. You know, we were able to fight one enemy while we were in power, to protect people, bridges, little technical means, little of our resources, but we couldn't fight the internal factor. How to fight with you who got money from abroad and you never hid it. Resistance funded, you're funded, you're created from abroad. To resolve one dilemma about these very inaccurate things. The woodsman was talking here, so he's a former minister. Seven times every year there are reports of someone's apartment, some funding, etc. For the first time, let me tell you one great truth: thanks to your President Labus, we found out in 2001 what the background of all the prosecutions is. The background is one piece of paper that came from a European institution and it says - if you want a loan you have to: electricity, pensions, budget system coordination, drug price hike and persecution of Serbian national policy protagonists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2031	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2032	That's why you call from this booth Nikolic, and Wolf and Seselj. There is no crime but a media ring to attach crime to patriots and thus devalues the idea of preserving Serbian national interests. Who does that? Those who hate the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2033	Time, Mr. Crassus, and don't insult us patriots. Please, no one's leading the hunt against you. Here you are, please, a representative of the government. Please, we use the Rules of Procedure and I will continue to apply the same arches for everyone. Be kind, respect the Rules of Procedure of your own assembly. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich. Please, please, a representative of the Government, please, we use the Rules of Procedure. I'll still apply the same arches for everyone. Be kind, respect the proverb of your own congregation. Here you go, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2034	Gentlemen, I haven't seen you so nervous in a long time. As for the proposal of young Mr. Vukic about the exchange, gentlemen, let me tell you, what is gained with his hands and work, 70 squares, unrelated to the fact that it is a fifth-floor apartment in New Belgrade, where many of you would not like to live, but with my work, I have obtained it, to trade for something that someone has received from the government for free, it is evident that your father is Dusan Mihailovic. He suggested it a year ago. And now I know why all these things you've been doing, especially in the Zemun municipality, no one's sanctioned. The fact that you had the support of the work of the previous government and that you were always considered to be a kind of penitentiary government doesn't allow you to tell the truth about people who are morally clean. And as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2035	Please, without throwing away, the pendant is nothing offensive. Be kind, it's an object... Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2036	Times have changed. I don't care how many ministers I'm gonna be. I don't care, just like I didn't care how long I'd be in the governor's seat. But what is certain – I will always tell the truth, and I will never be silent to anyone. Times have changed. Maybe some of them made deals with you. Maybe some people wanted to make a deal with you. I believe that you are simply equating a different policy, which is your right and never with you in any agreement, compromises, I will not enter, accept no offers, and as far as Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is concerned, I know that she is a lady and I will not say anything very offensive at her expense. But if you get the money from the sale of 1,000 square meters, which you had previously, because you were in power, you got in that location, and now you allegedly don't have an apartment, because you sold everything, let someone poor here get 1,000 squares from the government, so sell them; does it make sense to look for an apartment from the government now? To get money from selling 1,000 squares and looking for an apartment from the government, I think it's untasty, no matter what it is about a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2037	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was talking about Mr. Dinkic being swallowed by goldfish, I didn't know they were in this glass. I'd like them to bring me a clean glass. Please, Mr. Dinkic, I expected an answer from you, because you say you have a small property, so I understand, you've earned it with your own hands, 70 square meters, on the fifth floor in New Belgrade, so I offered you 1:5. Take it, you'll make a lot of money, no trouble. I've got more than that. You'll earn, you can think about how much you'll make, maybe ten times as much to have as you do today. I'm taking over from you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2039	Please, Mr. Nikolic, don't disturb the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2040	... And I leave you with those seven or eight best men. Well, I guess it's not the godfather's offensive phone book, if the locket isn't offensive. I don't think he's the best man...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2041	No, Mr. Nikolic was interrupting your speech, so I warned him. Go ahead, Mr. Wolfie. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2042	All I cared about was whether the best man was offensive or not. I don't think so. I didn't see anything wrong with that. And I must say, some who say, I will not deal with you in any kind of agreement, Mr. Dinicucci said - I will not make any arrangements with you. That's what a minister should know. And as for my father's idea, I don't know who my father is. That's not what I was thinking. I know who I've learned a lot from. At least I learned from Mr Dusan Mihailovic, who you mentioned here. And I don't know what he has to do with anything. You obviously know so little about the legal system that you don't know who's pressing charges, who's filing criminal charges, who's running the proceedings. You obviously don't have any connections, or you don't have any idea, however you want. So, against those against whom pointless criminal charges have been filed, they have long been prosecuted and it has nothing to do with Mr. Dusan Mihailovic long ago. Absolutely nothing to do with anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It has to do with the courts. And the poor and those competent courts, they don't know what to do, because they got a lot of stupid criminal charges from your friend and friend Mr. Djelic back then. As for that New Serbia, no one has ever said that, except that some newspapers once published, so no one has ever conducted any procedure, and don't make up any nonsense and say it from here, because you don't know what you're going to do with yourself anymore. And we're totally calm, we're not nervous at all, because, you know, Mr. Dinick, your time is running out. I guess I'll make a mistake on the date, I think it's April 14th, if I'm not mistaken, and Mr Dinkic, you have less than two months left when you'll be aware that you have to pick up your clothes, suitcases and fly out of the Serbian government, because other people will come to your place. And then you'll see Mr. Dinkic what an unbearable ease of law enforcement is. When laws, not us as your political opponents, but the laws start to work, not because we threaten you as you threaten us, Mr Dinkic, that you will take revenge, that you will pursue and persecute. We don't want you. You will be prosecuted and prosecuted by the law. That's why you'll be in jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2043	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word of the Lord, the messenger of the people, Takach Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2044	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after the previous discussion, I want to talk about an item that is on the agenda today. We have before us a set of draft laws announced by the new government programme a month ago. My address will refer to the law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act. It is known that money is needed to launch economic activity. First, in the current conditions, when commercial banks offer money under relatively unfavourable conditions, the driving activity must take over the state as funds, which must be placed under favourable conditions or ensure that commercial loans are obtained. The Guarantee Fund, which was formed a year ago for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, is one way of providing such funds. A solution offered from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee Fund Act to give future benefits for the provision of funds to farmers for agricultural activity, gives them a course for the development of agricultural activity. The G17 plus in its programme found that "this instrument will encourage banks to grant loans to farmers under favourable conditions", and this time confirms that this can be implemented in practice. Secondly, agriculture, as an area of adjustment, has been neglected so far, without a permanent solution to the problem of providing funds for investment, crafts assets, and society expected the most from agriculture. Thirdly, whenever the state provided favourable loans to agriculture, so-called. green loans, agriculture has repeatedly returned with successful production. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to point to a situation that is present. The age structure of the population per village is unfavourable. There are more and more people over 60, who end their working lives. Young people who would accept the jobs of farmers do not have the means to start working in the countryside. I support Mr. Rafaelovic's proposal to keep this fund in mind, when allocating funds, the competent authorities of this category of users, such as beginners, and to provide them with the benefit of this fund. Secondly, the Fund must continue to accelerate business activity and small businesses, as the increase in employment is the most possible in this area, both in production and in services.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2045	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Dusan Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2046	Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed a bill that represented the DSS election promise. Today we are talking about a group of laws that represent the election promise of the G17 plus, the pendants and the DOS and DSS authorities. Of course, we know that the legitimate right of every parliamentary group, that is, every party, even the obligation, is that when it wins power, it fulfills the electoral promises. But what the Serbian government is doing is just some kind of law, some kind of bill that will remain just a dead letter on paper. None of these laws mean a improvement for Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens expect the government to pass some law that will really make citizens live better and where they will feel that something has changed in the country of Serbia. And we in the SRS know that nothing has changed and that it cannot change while G17 plus participates in the government, while Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus participate. We from the SRS do not believe in the good intentions of Mladjan Dinkic and therefore, even if some text of the law is not so bad, we cannot vote for it, because we know from experience, and all Serbian citizens know what Mladjan Dinkic's role was in breaking into the National Bank, the role in the National Savings, the role of Mladjan Dinkic in the electricity trade. Based on these experiences, we know that these laws will mean nothing, too, that these laws only create the possibility that Mladjan Dinkic is still working the way he worked, now trying to institutionalise his actions, he knows what, through these bill proposals. The law on the guarantee fund underlying the footing of the SRS parliamentary group is that we believe that no state should be involved in this business, because this is business bank business, or should be. However, we tried to intervene with the amendments, with an extremely good intention that these laws at least look like something when you adopt them. Of course, you will adopt them, we have no doubt, and the basics of our amendments are precisely to distract you, because in this law you have laid down certain standards governing internal relations in the government, and that is contrary to the Government Act. The minister boasted that he had adopted two or three amendments for us. You haven't adopted anything for us, Young Dinkic. You adopted the amendments because you realized it was necessary to correct these legal proposals this way. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments; this law is exactly what I said at the beginning – the legal framework for the right operation of Mladjan Dinkic, which means that the jobs of payment traffic, which are normally the most expensive in Europe and which Mladjan Dinkic envisaged for the banks of his favorite and for the possibility of creating banking lobbys in Serbia. The participation of these already formed banking lobbys will be seen very soon and we will hear about this speaker from the president of the Survey Committee of Mr. Vukic, who has been working on this business, but we will talk about it when it is current. Mr. Dinkic remembers Serbia from the beginning of 2001, when he shut down four major banks in Serbia. Until today, he did not explain to Serbian citizens where the hundreds of millions of marks he found in Beobanca are today. On behalf of the shut down state banks, Mladjan Dinkic introduced some foreign banks from the white world, the "žen" category bank in Serbia. They have no reputation in their countries, and they are brought here to rob Serbian citizens through some inappropriately expensive loans that no one takes, of course, because who is able to pay off such high loans as those white-world bankers of Mladjan Dinkic offer us. This third law on regulating the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development essentially needs Serbia. The SRS doesn't mind that the state settles its obligations, but it's unclear why you're making a trust with this cash law. We had the Financial transaction Tax Act, and now we have this law, which is a dedicated law, which was passed for the reconstruction of the Colubary County after NATO aggression. There was no reason why the funds collected under this law would not be directed at this state obligation. Then there would be no need for the law to be passed by an emergency procedure, and if its application were to be delayed at the end of 2007, the application of this law could be done by the state by the end of this year. We Serbian radicals, as I said, have nothing against the adoption of this law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development, but we do not believe that this government, especially Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is ready to implement this law, given the already large and excessive duties introduced by party president Mladjan Dinkic Miroljub Labus, and given everything we know about their participation and work in the previous DOS government, whose attachments were as professional experts. And in this government, too, whose pendants have not done anything, nor will they do anything that would be significant and beneficial to the citizens of Serbia. It is obvious that Mladjan Dinkic will continue as he began his career when he entered the National Bank with socks and long pipes. There was a speech here why Serbian radicals, when they were in government, did not pass any of these laws. Gentlemen, our participation in the government has been, you know, very well, indeed very briefly in NATO's times of aggression and reconstruction of the country. We were a minority partner in that government, today someone here said it didn't matter if it was a minority or a majority partner. I also know why it's said, because whoever is a minority partner, like G17 plus, is bright and dressing in this government of Vojislav Kostunica. Also, my colleague Vukic said that for the campaign for this speaker, which is G17 plus conducts obviously in favour of the SRS to deliver us a current account to pay for these services G17 plus. Here, I suggest we pay you the most expensive services we have, and these are the books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. If you could read them, gentlemen, then you'd recognize yourself in many things. Don't laugh. They laughed before you, and then they turned around a lot when the book "Laufer came to me," and Laufer kept calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2047	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Miss Milivojevic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2048	Strong mention of G17 plus. As I said in one of the previous reports, our ratings are really going to be dramaticly bounced after all this debate. I have to thank you for this much mention, especially for this story of cheer and dress. I wish. Thank God there is at least one party on the political scene of Serbia who wants to pay the citizens back. Finally, such a party has appeared, as we have so far had a lot of parties in governments, which in the short term and as much as possible, which only took the people's money, so it's high time for a political party to show up to pay them back. When it comes to the effect of this or that in power, don't be so confident about the purity of your rule, it was short or long, it lasted among other things, at least from 1997 to 2000, so it wasn't so short, in 1998, I'm sorry, it's not so short that you wouldn't see the fantastic effects of that rule. Among other things, government at local and republican level. So the media is writing all sorts of things in this country, so you can read all kinds of things about the operation, specifically, each of you, and the previous speaker that is mentioned in some media, and about some plots again, anti-dates and possible abuses that occurred during the assignment of these parcels. Therefore, I really ask you to stop constantly accusing others and not take care of what you yourself have done. Serbian citizens know it very well without the media and with them, and the citizens of Serbia will show what they know now and in all subsequent periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2049	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie. There was a replica on the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, article 100, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2050	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems there are no new goldfish, although I have asked you, Mr. President, they've all been eaten to change me and that a man can drink water from this pay phone. Something's nervous about these G17s, something they like to earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2051	Mr. Wolfie, it's a bell, it's used to warn the speaker to talk about the subject. It's not nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2052	Mr. Markovic, you don't have to act funny and act smart...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2053	I don't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2054	... Because it's very hard to determine, even when you're trying. You better not do that at all. As for those who earn, and so far they've changed five parties, I'm counting on the sixth soon, as soon as they get out of the government, and the end is coming to you, the 059 days of God, count every day you're getting shorter and shorter. I must say, referring to article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I find it interesting that everyone is talking about abuses of office, I don't know what crimes they found, anti-dated, I don't even know what they antidated, they don't know what they're talking about, but they thought of something. Oh, come on, ladies and gentlemen, you're just thieves and nothing else. What kind of abuse of official position?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2055	Please don't speak to the messengers on the left and right who sit in front of you and to whom you point, that's extremely incorrect. I remind you of Article 99. I said earlier, I give you a warning, because I have warned different speakers from different parties not to. On your left and on your right, there are MPs from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2056	Mr. Markovic, I didn't mean it, and especially not all the MPs, but some, and I meant a member of the government, I meant them when I said they were thieves. And now I'm telling you, Mr. Markovic, since you're my second time in office, even though I haven't been any sharper, I just came out to answer what your political party said, thank you for taking my money again. The right to tell you, I spend it, it's not God knows how much, but I don't feel like it's a little bit, Mr. Markovic, and I'm going to call you a thief now, so give me another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2057	Replica, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2058	Of course I was looking for a replica, because that's my natural right. I'll never abuse Article 92 after this pay phone, but I'll come here, so I'll answer. Of course, all MPs are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, not to use offensive expressions, even when they may be evidence and accurate, let alone when they are inexplicable and incorrect. Since there's not just a law, there's a word and a obligation and some things are easily verifiable. Let's start in a row. Mr. Wolfie, I gave you my first warning today. If I were to use your dictionary... (Alexander Wolfie, from the scene: then he's Martian.) ) There is a huge difference between two people, but your unpreparedness to spot the difference between people and to accuse someone so easily, to indicate it as information, is at least incorrect. It's dangerous to read false facts, not because you can easily insult someone without reason, and that's your right. It's dangerous because from where I sit, and sometimes one of the vice presidents from different parties, it has to be kept in mind that the Rules of Procedure are respected. I think I've provided enough evidence from this pay phone, that I've warned everyone who violates the Rules of Procedure. And in the future... From the O.R. and the Minister? () Of course, the minister, and you have witnessed it many times and for different ministers. I've said three warnings so far. To one Mr. Velimir Ilic, as a messenger of the people, and to another I told Mr. Dinkic and the third to you. That's the three warnings I made from this pay phone. I guess it's very important for people to respect the law. If you don't think it's important, and I don't only think about you personally, I mean anyone who comes here by invitation, either as a national MP, so you can unfoundedly insult people and call thieves people who do their job, and they've invested for this country, and you don't take it from it -- you know that there are such people in all parties -- please understand that this will do it to you personally and to anyone else who does it politically and specifically harm you. It's not good for this country not to do things by the law and people being accused...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2059	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2060	... from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2061	Base? On what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure? What member? (Alexander Wolfie: I'll say it.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing Mr. Markovic came out for a pay phone and said what he said. Especially because he came out to speak as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't hear him warn Mr Dinkic, and nobody in this room heard it. Maybe somewhere at the MP's club. He did warn him, "Please don't, please don't," but he took the money from me, not him. As for the false and malicious accusations that you were talking about, you allowed Mr. Markovic here, and what never happened except in one case of Bozidar Djelic, he didn't mention Mom here at the pay phone, but he kept saying 50 times, he cried out like that, you know how he can "I'm going after, I'm going to chase, I'm going to chase," when he came in, so he thought he was the most important ball of the Earth and nobody can say anything to him. That's how Mr. Dinkic came out for the pay phone today. He didn't talk about a set of his laws, he didn't talk about a law that's on the agenda, he didn't talk about anything about what's going on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What did he do? He dealt with false writings in certain newspapers, which he himself released in the newspaper, or gave them the flooring material to deal with, for there is a big problem, a terrible corruption, or I don't know what. You allowed that, Mr. Makrovic, to God's warning, and saying, "Let's just keep going a little bit longer, tell them something else, and I'll see that there's no answer, because I'm going to warn them." I went out and said what I really meant. I don't know how you're gonna do it in any other language. I know what it's called in English, I know what it's called in Russian, but I don't think in those languages I should speak the word thief, nor do I think that's particularly significant. In my own words, I'm staying, and as far as the voter is concerned, don't worry about the SRS voters. From what I understand, your only goal is to fight the SRS. I expect you to do nothing but fight the SRS. It's good that you do it, keep doing it, it suits us to do it, it's nice for all of Serbia to see who the G17 is trying from the top of the government, the salt of this regime to haunt and not worry about it. We survived, we were in power for two years, but we were also in opposition for 12 years. We survived the hardest and worst persecution of all political entities in this country. Believe me, we'll survive you, Mr. Markovic, and I'll survive without this 3,000 dinars, as well as without the 3,000 that the Dragan Martian took from me, not because I stole something, because I've never stolen anything from anyone, and I'd like anyone to come out of your parliamentary group to tell me something like that. And I tell you, yes, gentlemen, you have participated in the most difficult and worst malfeasances in this country, and for this, gentlemen will not be persecuted by your political opponents, not by the prosecutors who will be appointed by the SRS, as you are today, not by the judges that we are about to appoint, will be persecuted by your legal norms, will be persecuted by the laws that you have violated and which you have destroyed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2063	For the beginning of the Rules of Procedure, the time has elapsed, Mr. Wolfiche. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2064	I'm done. Our time, and especially the time of Tomislav Nikolic, is coming, and your time expires on June 13th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2065	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm taking a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2066	Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. Please put your cards in the box for verification. Since we have 86 MPs present in the O.R., we are continuing our work. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Prorokovic, please. Wait a minute, there's something wrong with electronics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2067	The honourable MPs, when in 2002, the then president of the SRJ, and today's Prime Minister, launched an initiative to start the NR China debt talks, half of Belgrade's voiced speakers rose, saying Milosevic's debts should not be paid back. As then, today we stand firm at the view that Milosevic's debts do not exist, there are no Labus debts, there are no Djindjic debts, there are only government debts. There's no one's personal debt. The legitimate majority in this house chooses the government, the government implements economic policy and therefore pays its political price in the elections. The debts, unfortunately, remain for some of the next congregation majority to pay back. The draft law governing the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development is nothing more than a return of debt to our compatriots from the diaspora and to our citizens who gave money during 1989 and 1990. I don't think this is about a pre-election promise or a campaign, it's about the fundamental obligation of this country to deprive its citizens, or to try to deprive its citizens, because it's impossible to fully degrade the damaged. How to deprive people to whom money had to be returned in 1998 or 1999, how to damage people who waited five or six years for their money to come back. With this bill, we are trying to correct this injustice and now at least the payment of funds is guaranteed by 31 August 2007. Some big ones can do it faster, but no problem, suggest as quickly as possible, we'll be happy to accept it, but I'm symptomatic that it's precisely what those who have been saying for their term of office that they haven't found any documentation regarding the loan for economic rebirth. However, even by adopting this law, some problems remain. I personally didn't want to submit any amendments, but this is how I'm going to appeal to the finance minister and the entire Ministry of Finance to solve these problems. The problem of tight interest arises, the currency issue in which these funds will be paid, as people, for example, invested dollars in 1989, and today they are guaranteed to be returned in euro. The dollar was worth a lot more in 1989 than it's worth today. I well-intentionedly propose to the Ministry of Finance that this issue be resolved, so as not to go through courts with every citizen who has invested this issue further. As far as the Payment Law is concerned, the DSS will also support this law, because this law removes deficiencies in the mandatory collection process, because it additionally provides protection for creditors and guarantees the introduction of financial discipline, while preventing abuse. I will list one member of this law; therefore, the banks are obliged to return misdirected funds, and that the recipient of the funds so-determined, so other people's resources, must not have those resources; and that is absolutely logical, something that exists in the legislations of all Southeast European countries, thereby further protecting creditors and increasing the degree of financial discipline on our market. In this way we think that we can certainly interest foreign investors in additional investment, I mean our market. Honestly, miracles should not be expected, as these changes and additions to the law will not make foreign investors rush into Serbia's market. It's hard to believe. Security opportunities in the Western Balkans are not great, especially after 17 March, but this does not justify either the government or the assembly majority not to propose such measures. We have to do everything we can to make it easier for investors to enter our market. Other countries in the region have gone far beyond that. Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader announced last night the introduction of a stop shop system into the Croatian system: all permits for investors, from building through an electricity license, or 20 to 25 permits should be opened in order to open one company, will be in one place and the Croatian procedure, which in Serbia takes six months to a year, will be reduced to a few days or weeks. We must do so urgently in Serbia, so not only this system, but many other measures must be taken, and this must be only the initial measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the process of attracting investors and fixing our legislation. As much as it takes to encourage foreign investors, so should domestic investors, i.e. entrepreneurs, people who are willing to enter here today, rather I would say in a great adventure than in some business arrangement to establish small or medium-sized enterprises, and certainly farmers, either individual agricultural producers or some collective associations, such as agricultural cooperatives. Because there's no state without small and medium-sized enterprises and there's no state without a developed cooperative. There is no country where these segments are not developed, I mean less developed areas, where the unemployment rate is high, where economic operators work with a smaller volume and capacity, but in developed areas, and that is why this initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia encourages us. Whether it's realized or not, we'll see about that in the next period. It is important because if we look at the structure of current investments, both foreign ones that have come directly or through the privatisation process, i.e. the purchase of enterprises and these domestic ones, we can see where it was invested: Novi Sad, Nis little, everything else in Belgrade. Serbia today is threatening the country's quasi-metatropolisation process, a process through which many Southeast European countries have gone through. We legal measures and those proposed in the Guarantee Fund Act, as well as many other initiatives that will follow from different ministries, can take care of that. These 1.5 billion dinars from the Guarantee Fund are at least what the state can do for a small, medium-sized economy, i.e. for small and medium-sized enterprises and for agricultural producers in undeveloped areas. It is important that these funds be spent fairly, and I assure you that DSS will no less than the opposition parties spend these funds, so that it will not happen as in earlier periods that the money for entrepreneurship, agricultural producers and cooperatives is spent on pools, discotheques and godfather houses.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2068	The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2069	I would like to say at the very beginning that I support the law that will return to Serbian citizens the funds that have been allocated to Serbia's rebirth, but I think it would be desirable and it would be desirable that the minister has prepared at least some kind of short analysis of these funds that have been given to the state, that some analysis here shows who has reborn from these funds on the territory of the Serbian state, that we have some comparative analysis of how it has been spent, as it has been spent, whether it has been done by some companies, whether it is just a state, whether individuals, in what way it has been spent. This is how I welcome it back to the citizens, and this is how we're going to make some kind of a return to some kind of legal certainty in this country. That's why I support him, but I don't support him because we don't have some analysis to really see how these funds have been spent. If we keep correcting the mistakes of the previous ones, and we don't point out how those funds have been spent, then everyone will say, we'll spend the next one again, anyway someone's gonna fix it behind us. That's why it's not good. I come from a region almost a month ago for which two or three analyses published magazines "Politika", "News" and "Blic" under titles -- regions and cities that all the funds have bypassed in this country. If you look at all the parameters that determine the standard of population in a region or infrastructure development, you will see that the region from which I come, Sandzak, is the last place in this country. If you look at the number of telephone connections per capita head, if you look at a square of asphalt, if you look at how many meters of waternets there are, you'll see that we're in the worst position in this country. If you look at many of this country's plans, you'll see that the pipeline ends up in the cities of Sandzak. If you see new travel network development plans, there's no region here again. However, the fact is that in our country earlier, and yet unfortunately, it all depends on whether a particular region or some municipality have a certain number of people on boards and we have the personalisation of institutions, not the institutionalisation of boards and so on. We therefore believe that these new boards of directors who manage agencies and all other institutions must pay attention to these facts, because our experience shows that we have been bypassed by all the funds that have somehow tried to balance regional development in this country. The fact that there are no people from our region on neither the Serbian boards, or Telecom, or PTT, or the directorate, or any other institutions that have influence or have resources, without talking about the EPS and everything else, can be seen that we cannot count in the future on any kind of improvement in the situation and what is called balanced economic regional development, what all countries in Europe are doing. So I want to say that this government should not repeat the mistakes made by all the previous governments and that our region bypasses all the funds that are in some way or taken away from citizens, such as this loan, where we don't really know, someone took it, who in the country got rid of it, and we don't know that, and that's why I'm saying that the Proposer was supposed to prepare one analysis for a point like this, and we just see who got those funds, so if he ever got someone else to come in line now. The other day, the director of the Road Directorate came up with his plan for next year, what will be done in the field of travel infrastructure and you can see that there are no roads passing through Sandzak on that map. We don't think that's good. We think that the state has to look at all regions with the same eyes and has to have the same archaic for all citizens. All citizens pay taxes to this country and we believe that this government must do more to make this balanced development work from the very beginning of the government's work. So far, we can't see a single shift in this direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2070	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2071	Mr Omeragic, I answered the line in front of the DSS parliamentary group, although I could also report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99(1), because I do not understand what the proposal for these amendments and additions, these three laws, with the roads to Novi Pazar and with the Management Board of the "Serbian". I guarantee you, the DSS will support every proposal that the infrastructure in the Raška region or Sandzak, as you call it, is brought to a decent level, only everyone first to pay the tax. When you pay your taxes, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2072	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2073	I am very pleased that Mr. Prophetovic, as a member of the ruling party, promises the citizens of our region that he will do anything to make it different from all the previous and to do something in this sense. Mr. Prophetovich, you can't like out of your sleeve to get facts whether someone pays taxes or not. Do someone pay taxes here you have to prepare a report and say how many citizens in our region don't pay taxes, and then I'll answer that fact if someone doesn't pay why they don't pay, or compare simply to municipalities in Serbia as much as they pay taxes, and then we'll talk about how much we've done and in which region. All governments are avoiding reporting how much the fund has received, how much the phone connection costs, i.e. Raska is only 20km away and there is a 100-euro connection there, and in Novi Pazar 500 euros. Why is that? What is the difference between the citizens of Raska and Novi Pazar, or Sjenica and Tutina? Another thing, I'm glad you'll take care of it, but you do it one Samaritan way, by promising you'll do it. I recommend, not because there is no one from that region in the ruling or non-governmental party, that you include people from your parties and from our region in the boards of directors, so let them make sure, let them do it, that we have better roads, a network and more. One more thing, gentlemen, you've got 20 kilometers from New Market that the railroad came 100 years ago. 100 years ago. In 100 years, no government has bothered to extend the railway network to Novi Pazar by just 20 kilometers. No one wanted to do it, and there's no canyon, there's no tunnel, it's pretty cheap, since we have some small-scale blackout, and as we know, rail transport is the cheapest, and it would make us speed up economic development. Secondly, and what we want through local self-government is that we cannot, gentlemen, because this country has the most centralized financial system. Compare, gentlemen, the centralization of the financial system in this country and find me another such example in Western Europe. I said - in Europe, not in the countries of Africa or some other parts of the planet. You'll see there are no laws like this state. You have a property directorate: if you want a fourth-floor chair in local self-government to transfer to the first floor you have to ask the Property Directorate. Where's the decentralisation? Where is democracy and where else is it? It doesn't exist anywhere. When you find an example of parallel law, Mr. Prophetovich, say there's this in Switzerland, that it's in the Canton of Jura or Zurich, that it's in Finland, that it's in Paris, that I'm ready to talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2074	Thank you. On what grounds? He had a replica on your line. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2075	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 99(1) First of all, I don't know on what basis Mr. Omeragic was granted the right to reply. But, Mr. Omeragic, I don't understand why you get so nervous when someone mentions the question of taxes and taxes in New Market. It is certain that you cannot find such a centralized system in parallel to Switzerland. In the parallel law of Great Britain, too. I agree that this should be changed, but whether there are 50, 60 or 100 workers who do not pay taxes in Switzerland, the UK or any country in the environment. They certainly don't exist. We will, we will advocate the even development of Serbia, it is in my interest because of my birthplace, we want to help develop all the backdrops, we want to decentralised the administration, but we want to do the same as the tax is paid in Ljubljana, Krupnje, Mali Zvornik, to also be paid in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2076	On what basis are you answering? The replica is gone for you, since you had two. Here you go, a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2077	Mr. Prophetovich has one problem. I told him to bring in a report to compare, to see the percentage of tax payments across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To compare it with the number of private, or business entities. And you can't, Mr. Prophetovich, here from your sleeves to remember the information whether someone pays or doesn't pay the tax. You can't do that. You can, you're the ruling party, you're looking for a agenda item to read -- a tax analysis in this country; and we're going to prepare ourselves and see how much taxes are paid in Novi Sad, Subotica, Belgrade, Loznica, Kralje, Novi Pazar and all other cities in Serbia. That's all I told you. If you have a problem getting ready for that point, that's your problem. You get ready, bring the data and then we'll have a discussion about facts, not apriora stuff in terms – you don't pay taxes any more than someone who pays a little less. It's not for serious discussion. I've told you what the facts of this country's legislation are, and you prepare it for one of the sessions, schedule us a session and ask us to prepare ourselves, see how much the tax payer pays. Then we're going to compare the facts of why in our region we're paying for that connection so much, we're going to calculate how many meters of water network, paved streets, infrastructure, and we're going to analyze everything. I stand for it. Nothing else. It is not desirable for you as a member of the ruling party in this way, on a flat-rate basis, to share assessments of whether a citizen pays more or less, given whether he is a citizen of this or that city. That's not good. I invite you to prepare the data and then convince us here that there are regions where taxes are paid more, somewhere less paid, and we are ready. You know very well one thing, that not paying taxes is a bad fact for local self-government. We're interested in citizens paying taxes. Because we'd have more money to build infrastructure and solve all these problems I've been talking about. You prepare it. We'll prepare our data. We'll compare them. Maybe you can convince us that we have better ways than we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2078	On what grounds? Are you mentioned? What member is that? What? Replica? Here, you're mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2079	Mr. Omeragic, don't get so excited. I just mentioned the question of paying, or not paying taxes. I don't know why it offends you. You went out for a pay phone and asked for a word based on a member of the Rules of Procedure saying that I offended you. I agree, we need to run a detailed analysis. We shouldn't be doing this. That's what the Treasury should do, and I hope they finish it very soon. I also agree that local tax evasion has a bad impact on local self-government, but it certainly has a good impact on individuals from local self-government, or at least this is how Mr Rasim Ljajic explained it to us in his public statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2080	You have no right to a replica. You reported to the Rules of Procedure, and he was given the right to a replica after you mentioned him. Now it's over with the replicas. (He speaks to MP Omeragic, who insists on receiving the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2081	Dear fellow Members of the People...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2082	You can't appeal to article 100 because he didn't take offense to you. (He speaks to MP Omeragic, who insists on receiving the word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2083	Dear fellow Members of the People... (President: Please sit down, he did not insult you, let us work. ) Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 99, and to ask not only Mr Omeragic, but all other MPs today. We talked a lot past the agenda theme. The debate often turned into something quite different compared to what we should talk about, but here I came out to react precisely to the violation of Article 99 of position 1 by Mr Omeragic. The debate is on the guarantee fund law, and it has turned into a debate on the regional and spatial development of the Republic of Serbia. Why not? It is one of the legitimate topics for this assembly, but not today, dear colleague, Mr. Omeragic, but one day when you suggest putting on the agenda of that point, so when it gets into the agenda and then we talk about it nicely. When you're already looking for exact information on how much who pays the tax, why don't you take out the exact information from this booth who is not a member of the boards of directors of these and these public enterprises and who are these people from your region who are supposed to be members of these boards of directors that you mention? Why don't you say your name and last name - I have a candidate, it's called that and so on, and suggest him to be a board member. Who are these people from your region who are not members of the board of directors? The second thing, since the administrative boards of public enterprises in this country are formed on a regional principle. Who says every region must have its own representative on the board of directors of every public enterprise? I guess the goal is to be the most competent, the most professional, the smartest and the best people of the board of directors, not to represent each region. What's that look like? To finish, I think we should stick to the agenda theme so we can end this debate, and certainly there will be time for the regional and spatial development plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2084	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2085	As for the amount of anxiety, I regret that we don't have some kind of nervous system here, so let's measure Mr. Prophetovic and measure everyone else, so let's figure out who's nervous. As for this, he says that local self-government does not collect taxes, even the issue of personnel from federal ministries, the completion of Serbia-Montenegro's place with the topic that has nothing to do with it. Did someone tell you that someone in the local self-government did something to damage tax collection? These are your flat-rates that are totally non-serious. I just invited you, as a representative of the ruling party, to prepare the report with the finance minister. I don't think it's an insult if we told you to prepare a report, to compare the rate of paying taxes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You started to get excited and to get a wish for a replica. I don't know what a man would replicate when he tells you – prepare an official report from the Ministry of Finance and come to the Assembly, come out here and say: the percentage of tax collection in the territory of Šapca is this, in Vranj is this, in Piroth is this, and in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin or in Priboj is this. So I don't understand why that's the problem? Is it an insult and a reason for the replica that I tell you to prepare. I'm nothing at the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry won't give me a report, and it's not mandatory for him to give me a report about who paid the tax. You must, you're the ruling party and you have that power. You prepare it, we'll prepare a session, you'll schedule it, you're the majority in this assembly, and then we'll talk about the facts, see if you can prove that the citizens in our region pay less taxes and that you can justify why they have such infrastructure and justify this unbalanced economic development. That's all I was talking about. We'll talk rationally. I won't be able to challenge the facts that you bring here. In conclusion, in Novi Pazar or Tutina, there is less tax to be paid than in the city of Serbia, and we will have no problems. I just called on the facts and to prepare myself for it, I didn't say that you're working on it, that you're pulling facts out of your sleeve who pays taxes in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2086	I know you have the right to reply, but since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, first Mr. Rajko Baralic, who has been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2087	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I respect the energy of every MP who stands for those issues that are a priority in the area where he comes from and advocates the interests of citizens whose will has become a People's MP. With that in mind, I respect Mr. Bajram Omeragic's insistence on these questions he raised here. Still, he said there are three things out there in the world. I'm using this point, and I note that he said that there is no place in the world that the price of a telephone connection is in one region, etc., that I'm not quoting it right now. When the Telecommunications Act was adopted, I submitted an amendment that the price of telephone connection in fixed telephony in Serbia would be averaged. Mr. Omeragic, your Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic has not accepted the amendment. If she had accepted it, we would have the average price of fixed telephony in Serbia today. That's one. Two, you said the railway never reached the New Market. It is a city where you were born. The city where I was born, Gornji Milanovac, had a railroad, so they took it away from him in 1965. I also advocate that Gornji Milanovac and Novi Pazar have a railroad. Under three, you said there is no country in a world where there is such a centralized financial system. I remind you that you and I lived in a country where there was a degree of decentralisation that can only be dreamed of today. And your city, and my city, and all the other cities in Serbia have decided on seven important issues, but not to charge me with cardio, I interrupt in this place. I just wanted to say that we had a country where it was possible. We hope that we will have a state where local self-government will take care of the financial resources paid by its citizens and spend them in their regions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2088	The People's Messenger Dusan Prophetic, so you are, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2089	Mr. Omeragic, I promise I won't argue with you anymore, because I have no desire for a replica. I have a desire for many other things, but I don't have a wish for a replica. First, if you are not aware, every MP has identical rights in this assembly and the Assembly controls the government, whether he is an MP of the government or of the opposition, the minister of each, and the finance minister is obliged to provide him with the report he asks for, whether from this pay phone, whether through the parliamentary issue, or in any other way. I'm not nervous at all, you can't make me nervous, I don't know why I insulted you by mentioning the name and last name of Rasim Ljajic and referring to one of his statements, which he said at the Congress of the Sandzak Democratic Party in 2003. In a series of these statements, I quote only one -- "to farm around Novi Pazar, where cows can shepherd under a hand, change for the same surfaces in the centre of Novi Pazar". I didn't insult you, I was just quoting Mr. Rasim Ljajic, leader of a regional party in Novi Pazar. I don't understand why it offends you at all. We're going to have a chance to talk about this on another agenda, and I'm not going to talk about this with you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2090	Whether or not you will depend on the fact that you have no arguments, and when you have no arguments, you must call on some of the heads of some parties who have failed to enter parliament. They have no municipal authority anywhere, Mr. Prophet, unfortunately for you. You're quoting some who can't win anything anywhere. He was a minister. You know, in history, you can choose a minister of experts who has no legitimacy, you can choose whoever you want when you're in a ruling party. You've come into a situation where you have no arguments and you think that this discussion of the travel network, about why our neighborhood is underdeveloped, is about whether or not a minister or leader of some extraparliamentary party has once said, where you happened to find yourself, and to raise a rating with your presence. And as much as you've raised his rating, Prophet, don't go to his congregations anymore, because the man has failed. He's a total failure. He can't win anything. As far as I'm concerned, that's all. Am I going as an MP to ask for something, and that's your Aligrudić problem whether you're interested, I'm asking the chairman to warn Mr. Aligrudic not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2091	Please allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2092	There's no point in throwing it away. I listened to Mr. Prophetic, I didn't throw anything away. As for the replica of the SPS gentleman that we are a decentralised state in that sense, I was saying that in a financial sense we are an extremely centralised state. In addition to what you're talking about that's not true, in order to say that something isn't right, you have to set an example, I said from Western Europe, where there's this kind of financial centralization. That's what this is about. So, I want to tell you, both you and the gentleman who's pulling facts out of his sleeve here that he can't support, I believe, I can see by it, that he regrets going into this replica. He even had to call on some Sanjay politicians, but unfortunately, I said, I can't help him with this, because this is about facts. I performed extremely correctly, and I said that the Ministry of Finance is preparing a report and that it should be supported if tax is not paid, so that with the finance minister, we could prepare a list of measures to improve it. It's the interest of local self-government... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The Republic of Serbia-Montenegro and we are ready to help, what is the business of local self-government. There's no reason for you to be upset about these facts. Prepare and bring these facts, we can conduct a debate as is appropriate to the MPs, with numbers and facts, and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2093	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2094	Mr. Omeragic, there's no need for you to flaunt with me sitting in the messenger benches. That's what you should do with the one who spoke to you for a moment. At all, this series of replicas that you're causing here is basically tearing down this home's reputation. Don't stick to the agenda, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're breaking Articles 99 and 97. Rules of Procedure, you do it all the time in this house. A few minutes, the president of the DSS parliamentary group warned of it and asked to stop it. But obviously it's not worth it. I call upon the chairman to answer my question: on what basis did Mr. Omeragic answer the line for a moment? If I have reacted in some way from the parliamentary bench, it is because it is very difficult to listen to seven or eight times the same MP after a pay phone, who is giving lectures here on something. Please stick to the agenda and let's do what's on this house's agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2095	On what grounds? Which member of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2096	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 97(1). Mr. Bajram Omeragic completely misread what I said. I said, and I can almost quote, that we had a state where the degree of decentralisation was such that today we can only dream about it. The municipalities in Serbia, on seven basiss, had the right to acquire and spend funds in the fields of culture, physical culture, social protection, etc., and that we had a new era, and that your struggle mainly gave you, received the centralisation of financial resources in Serbia on several grounds: the Law on the budgetary system, on the vault, etc. Today, municipalities in Serbia serve only to collect taxes for the central budget, and for all that time, Mr. Omeragic, the municipality of Novi Pazar from 1978 to 1989, filled the municipal budget with 78% of the funds from the republican budget. It's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2097	No, it's over, please. Please, you've caused a replica, and that's the end of it. No, because it was according to the Rules of Procedure, it was mentioned and this is the replica with which it ends, but not to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2098	I'm just saying, I don't want to mention it, but you all see how excited it is and he has to throw it away from the other row, and I'm going to tell him to shorten his experience and there's no reason for that. What I'm saying is that it's not appropriate for that kind of attempt to get from the third bench people who have a majority, and they can vote here at any level and on any question, they can vote for bad weather, and good, and whatever they want. I just advocated the use of facts and that MPs really argue with data, so that Serbian citizens don't see something called fun-recreative life, when a man comes out and says -- you know what, I think someone pays more or less taxes. That's all I was talking about, but people get offended when you tell them, you don't have paper in front of you, don't do it out of your sleeve, I don't know why it's an insult. So you have the majority, you have the finance minister, he'll prepare the government and the tax administration, report and come, we'll have a debate. If it is found that we pay less taxes than in Surdulica or anywhere in other parts of Serbia, we will increase the percentage and finish the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2099	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. There's no sign-ins. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Guarantee Fund and the draft law on amendments to the Law on Payments. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Regulation on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Milajic, Milan Stevovic, Bozidar Koprivica and Milorad Mircic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the draft law on the regulation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on loans for economic development, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2100	The first member of the bill regulates the subject matter of this law and since this is an area that deserves attention to be fully regulated, then the rule is when something is regulated by law and defines the subject matter of the law to say that conditions are first regulated, and then the way. The way is a word that corresponds as a substitute for the word procedure, and the condition is what has to be fulfilled so that someone can exercise some right and fall under this law. Since this law contains both material and procedural provisions, then, when predicating material rights, and then procedural things, the advantage is given. The amendment is purely legal-technical in nature, to erase this law a little bit, but this amendment has asked us to throw out something that is excess in this first article. These are the words that stand out -- "which are created by collecting foreign foreign exchange funds through dedicated foreign exchange savings and by issuing bonds that are foreign payment funds"; that is all that is already stated in the words that follow after these. It's already regulated by this law, which is why you define the obligations under that law, so we have basically one complex sentence here that repeats the same thing twice, but in a different way. We really wanted to help you with this bill, because we believe and begin with the fact that the state has to serve its obligations, it has to meet them, and it would be good to both legal and technical, and these laws look like something. In a similar sense, we also managed to amend to Article 2, where you accepted the amendment, so in the principle debate I really expressed the astonishment that you did not accept this amendment, which improves the text of the law. Simply, some standards are applied that are present when our regulations are written, and even regulations from the financial area. If it were any other law relating to direct human rights, then conditions for the exercise would be in the Constitution for the exercise of those rights, and only by law would the way it was done. This is a financial area where legal interests are spoken of, so you're authorized to regulate both the terms and the way, but you've confused the order and you repeat this twice, the same thing. All this stuff you've listed, what we're asking to erase, it's in the title of a law whose execution is an obligation, and you're passing this other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2101	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: she has the right to speak. ) This is part of the law, and I don't think it makes any sense to explain it. You can't comment on the text of the law now. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. A representative of the Proposer and the Financial Committee did not accept this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with a correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2103	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the regulation of the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of loans for economic development because the legal norm must be clear and precise, so I have just tabled an amendment because Article 8 of the law is not clear or precise. Therefore, the legal text as an essential part of the legal norm must be clear and precise. He's legally inconclusive here, and he has his shortcomings, so in terms of removing legal and technical deficiencies, I suggested this amendment, and I'm very surprised why it hasn't been adopted. He would have read it like this, in fact, to quote amendments to Article 1 of the 8th Act, i.e. The beginning of Article 1 where it is said - instead of saying "determining the amount of demand per application under Article 6 of this Act" should stand a clear and precise formulation of "the level of claim per application referred to in Article 6 of this Act determines". The demand is determined, gentlemen of the law, not done. It's grain. So I'm surprised you didn't learn anything from your older colleagues. So I think this would significantly improve the legal text, so I urge you to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2104	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2105	The SRS amendment to Article 12 referred to the "minister" authority, or to make it logical, that the bank that will convert determines the Serbian government rather than the finance ministry. This was also an essential objection by the SRS in principle, the minister of the newly elected rejected it, with an explanation that the ministry was also authorised under law, but this is about the authority by which banks are established in the territory of the Republic. We're going to be in a weird situation that tomorrow if there's an irregularity in the selection of these banks -- because that's where it stands in this Article 12. "banks that are on Serbian territory" and as it began with the closure of banks, it is obvious that the prospect of all foreign banks being on the territory of the Republic, but well, let's ignore that. If there are any irregularities, on every objection to us MPs will have full rights under this law and some other laws, the government will say: we are not responsible as Government, we did not choose a bank, that bank was chosen by the ministry. I can accept and we Serbian radicals have the understanding that it cannot go against the previously passed law, but the ministry can propose to the government, it can choose, but which will be a bank from the territory of the Republic, it is decided by the Serbian government. I don't see why it would in any way not be accepted as a possible solution to the SRS amendment. Perhaps only for the reasons of some vanity, but there is no place for vanity in the government or in this House, because we can stand up to each other, to discuss this pay phone, but the point is to stop and seek responsibility in time. We're not going to ask the minister tomorrow, especially not for some name and name, but for the government. The government is responsible for us, respecting the Law on Public Procurement where the ministry chooses, but the decision is made by the Government, and for this reason the SRS has proposed this amendment, and we hope that the proposing representative will nevertheless understand that good intentions are behind this and that this is ultimately a realistic and rational solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2106	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2107	We have defined our principled discussion by this amendment and I would ask MPs when voting on this amendment to bear in mind and the provision of Article 9, and it is prescribed that bonds be issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would just like to remind you that property rights on behalf of the Republic are being exercised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I would remind you of the provision of Article 7. It's a bill for administrative affairs to be carried out by the Ministry of Finance. The determination of a bank that will in fact be authorised to do the tasks referred to in Article 12(1) is the conversion of established claims, the registration of bonds in the central register, the issue of a bond registration certificate, the payment of bonds – it is done by banks from the territory of the Republic chosen by the Government and not by the Ministry. It is dangerous if the ministry chooses a bank, it can propose as an expert body and an authority in charge of administrative affairs to the government for whom to identify, but must not autonomously decide to make the finance ministry. If this were to remain, then this would really run out of the provisions of this law, it would run out of this country's legal order, it must also be said, because there is a clear division within the framework of executive functions as well as what it can do. In this way, some powers are given, someone seems to have the authority to elect a bank is not much of an authority, but I am telling you that it is a great authority, it is, because it can also depend on the fate of all the fulfilment of these obligations that we have towards the people who have entered the loan. That is why it is much better for the government, as an authority in charge of law enforcement, to decide which bank will carry out these tasks. Of course, if this amendment is accepted, what is also in position 2, the publication of the bank and, of course, taking into account the jurisdiction and organisation of the government, we have not changed Article 3 in this article, where it is possible for the Government, by its decision to elect a bank, the minister to conclude the contract, but the government has a decision on the bank, has all the elements of the contract, and the minister will only sign it on behalf of the Government. If this amendment is not adopted, then it is indeed media-promotional and other factors that have been determined when proposing one of these laws, not an honest intention to do this in a quality way, and that everyone gets some security, because if it goes to banks, even if a non-quality bank is chosen as a National Savings Bank, and I have to remind you, I don't mention the National Savings Bank on the basis of some previous discussions, but I just remind myself that it was used as an excuse and that the National Savings Bank has only accepted to serve certain obligations on behalf of the State. We can get word from some savings woman who's the only one who's going to accept doing this, so we're going to have survey committees again; if we're going to have a polling board, then we should have it for the government. With the government, we can easily finish the job here and in the short procedure, and if the whole government has to stand behind a minister, then you coalition partners think about it, citizens think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2108	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2109	Ladies and gentlemen, here I finally want to express my satisfaction that on these three draft laws there were no fundamental objections and I believe that most parliamentary groups will accept all three laws. As for the settlement of liabilities on the basis of loans for economic rebirth, we are finally correcting injustice after 15 years. The Guarantee Fund, it's the second law; we'll finally get a chance to secure loans both for undeveloped areas and for farmers. The insurance rate will be up to 80% and we really express in the government the satisfaction that the discussion essentially, this expert who was led these days on these two laws, has not shown that they have shortcomings. As for the third law, there was no amendment, which means the text is perfectly acceptable. I want to thank you for this discussion and I invite you to support all three legislative proposals when the day comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2110	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON THE GOVERNANCE FOND (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Bojan Kekić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Krasic, Igor Bečić, Vjerica Radeta, Vojislav Milajić, Milovan Radovanović and Aleksandar Vukic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Bojan Kekić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2111	Dear fellow MPs, by discussing the law in principle, I stressed what it means to adopt amendments and amendments to the Guarantee Fund Act, and that this applies to areas that are underdeveloped. The point of the amendment is that as many businesses as possible, counting first and foremost farmers who so far have been very difficult to obtain loans, through the guarantee fund and easier and faster loans, and that business banks are thus provided. The change in percentages, where an individual economic operator is defined by an amendment by up to 5%, certainly achieves conditions for more economic operators to be represented by the guarantee fund's capital, and that does not mean anything if there are bigger projects, where more than 3% should be done, because in the next position of this member, the Government of the Republic of Serbia may, on a reasoned request from the Fund, increase the volume of the guarantee and the super-guarantee provided for in Article 2 and over 3%, respectively. What is most important, and that is, with an explanation, the finance minister also noted today, and also yesterday in his opening statement, he particularly stressed undeveloped areas. If this amendment were to be adopted, the guarantee fund's capital would exceed 40% for undeveloped areas, it would automatically mean that economic operators and farmers among them could develop that area. If it is not used up to 40% or over 40%, surely the Management Board, or the Director of the Fund through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to distribute those funds that remain. I therefore ask the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, and I also remind the minister that in his opening statement yesterday, he particularly highlighted undeveloped areas, and he did so for a moment at the end of the Guarantee Fund Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2112	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2113	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with my amendment, I asked that Article 6 of the new position 4 be deleted. How important that is now I'm going to explain it to you. The position preceding the position I asked to delete is: "The total nominal amount of the guarantee and the superguarantee referred to in Article 1, issued at the request of the Bank and of the other financial organisation to the individual bank, can be up to 20% of the Fund's capital, and according to the individual economic operator up to 5% of the Fund's capital." These are the restrictions the law provides for for individual banks or individual beneficiaries of the fund. However, the position I asked to delete is literally like this: "The government of the Republic of Serbia may, on a reasoned request from the Fund, increase the volume of guarantee and superguarantee issued by the 2nd member's position by a certain period of time." It seems to me that this member is too high or someone wants to absolutely in the name of the Fund and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the resources from this fund, because the motionary asks this opinion to pass the law, and then to give the proposer the opportunity when, at will and at what time, to suspend the provisions of the law. In order to further raise doubts about the legality of the fund's work, the next members of the amendments to this law are seen in the work that the finance minister is in charge, or proposes to the government of the Republic of Serbia to the board of directors of the fund, and is also proposed by the fund's director, which means that absolute control over the fund is not the government, but the finance minister, who proposes only to the government to accept his proposal. Also, on the orders of the finance minister, the fund can ask the government to change the total amount of money for any user, and knowing the past of all of this, this is nothing like anything but new committees of inquiry and new commissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2114	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2115	In order to understand this intervention in Article 9 of the Law and what we are looking for in this amendment, which is to erase this position which says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can increase the volume of guarantees and superguarantee provided for in Article 2 of this Article on a reasoned request from the Fund, and in Article 2(2), it is said 2.5 times the amount of the fund's capital, of course for a certain period of time, a real relationship with Article 4 of the Law and amended, that is Article 2. The bill, and with Article 6(2), and this is now a member of the 4th of your bill. You see, when this law was passed last year, we practically passed a fund law, and we didn't know what the underlying capital of that fund was. He's not defined. If you want to register a simple company or create a contract for the establishment of a partner or shareholder society, a stock company, it does not matter, you in the contract and in the founding acts must indicate the underlying capital. We have a trust fund, we establish it by law, and we don't talk about how big his capital is. His capital becomes a stretching category. Last year, it was 100m euros, according to those from the previous government, and now we have been promised that it will be 1.5 billion dinars per budget. If we start from the assumption that this capital is going to be 1.5 billion, 2.5 that's four and something and even above that it can be increased, and if someone thinks that this helps small businesses and agricultural producers, I have to say that it's in great error. There is a Article 4. A bill that says the fund can place free funds into first-class securities of value, which means that the fund can return those funds to the budget and that's the round. There is always a justification for the business policy of existing banks, that loans cannot be approved and cannot be activated, and give guarantees, superguarantee, have nothing, and the government itself finances. Probably can also trade these securities with value. We do not need the law to do so, and therefore we have told this amendment to delete attitude 4, which also over the four billion fictitious capital guaranteeing an even greater debt, i.e. creating potential commitments for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted and therefore it is necessary in the voting day to understand the law. It's not for no reason that those before you were in power were in a position not to apply this law. He was their EP, for the December 28th elections. You saw how it went. Make sure this doesn't be an EPP for the presidential election, because the results are already known.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2116	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2117	After this amendment and the next ones to come, there is a clear media operation. This article, Article 7. The draft law is being amended in Article 11 of the basic text of the law. Let's read what's changing. Article 11 says, "The trust board has a president and eight members." Now the bill changes, so it will be just the president and four members. Item 2 is deleted. In that position, 2 said: "When the fund is organised as a stock company, the number of board members is increasing in proportion to the amount of capital invested". The idea of the first proposer of this law was that this fund could operate in mixed property when it came for a while. Now it's being erased and it's becoming a complete state fund. It's one definition. Item 3 says, "The presidents and members of the Fund's Management Board are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia." The draft law changes the text by adding the text – "on the proposal of the Secretary-General for Finance Affairs". So, the president and board of directors' election promoter is the finance minister. As it's written here, he's the only promoter. If he gets angry and won't propose, then the government wouldn't be able to choose. In the principle debate, we said that if the structure of the executive is the one who appoints and sets and the one who proposes it is not the law, but here was the need to put it. The need to make it possible for the Ministry of Finance to stand behind this, probably because of this party's division within the coalition government. I agree that people have promised all sorts of things in the stands, but we have to take care of the way, the means, and especially the direction that goes when something is done, especially when it's in the financial sphere. The concentration of power, even if it's in the form of a proposal, is really dangerous. Why? Well, you see, yesterday, we were talking about practically one law, where we tried to form an independent body, which would be a little further from power and control power. We'll probably have to build these quasi-state organs in the future, like a system of thin threads that needs to control and prevent possible abuse. There's a direct knock on that door, because something that's under the government is being inserted as an official organ, without which the government couldn't work. There was absolutely no reason for this to be introduced into the law, as it could have been concluded by the government's rules of procedure and other sublegal acts adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This insistence on the Ministry of Finance is rightfully making us think about what is behind these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2118	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2119	The Serbian Radical Party, as well as earlier amendments made by my colleagues, wants to correct some of the proposals proposed. This is where I ask that Article 9 be deleted, because we want to remove the lack of the said member, which is reflected in the fact that the law should not contain norms governing internal relations in the government. And that, in a different way than the one prescribed by the Government Act. We have the situation of this party division, which was created by the formation of the government, where one party concentrated power in certain ministries, and here we see that G17 plus wants to concentrate full power as far as the country's financial flows are concerned. That is why their proposal is heading towards the Director of the Fund appointed by the Government, but only on the proposal of the Finance Minister, and as the previous colleague said – if the finance minister does not make such a proposal or opposes the Government's proposal, the fund's director cannot be elected or can't be resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2120	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2121	I'm not surprised my amendment wasn't accepted. Article 10. The government's bill of law has been amended by a member of the 15th existing law. And it said in Article 15: "The Fund's Supervisory Board has a president and two members. The President and members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund shall appoint and resolve the Government. "The government put a tight spot after this, and added "on a proposal from the finance ministry responsible for the affairs". The SRS parliamentary group considers it necessary to accept this amendment, which proposes to delete Article 10, because the amendment removes the lack of that member, which is viewed as not to contain norms governing internal relations in the Government, especially if these internal relations in the Government are regulated contrary to the Government Act and the Ministry Act. We've seen earlier that at the Ministry of Finance's proposal, the board of directors is being elected, and now here's the supervisory board, and we really think it's an exaggeration. It is unacceptable that you give so much authority to the ministry, or the finance minister, especially given that currently Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is. From there and all that we have discussed in principle, our fears and our doubts in applying both this and the other laws we have spoken about today. If you would accept the removal of Article 10, as I proposed by amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the government would certainly protect itself against possible abuses of the minister. In this Article 15, according to our proposal, it would say: "The Fund's Supervisory Board has a president and two members. The president and members of the Fund's Supervisory Board are appointed and resolved by the Government." It's not clear to me that the government has not noticed that this is quite enough and that nothing should be added beyond this point. However, when it comes to Minister Dinkic, it is likely that the stocking is less visible, so he did not notice that this is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2122	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2123	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic text of the law provides that the operations of the fund shall be subject to review in accordance with the law. In point 2 of the report on the audit carried out under Article 1 of this Article, the Fund shall submit to the Ministry of Business Affairs. Now, the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act stipulates that the audit report is no longer delivered to the Ministry of Pivreda, but to the Ministry of Finance. The analysis of all the amendments proposed by the SRS shows that the draft law amending and supplementing the Guarantee Fund Act transfers great powers to the Ministry of Finance. This is especially evident in art. Paragraph 3 where the recapitalisation dynamics are determined through the Ministry of Finance; Article 5 paragraph 1 point 2a - the funds for the work of the fund are provided from the budget, which is once again proposed by the Ministry of Finance; Article 11 paragraph 2 - the Management Board shall appoint the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance; 13th and 15th regulate the appointment and resolution of directors, members of the Supervisory Board, appointed by the Government again on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance; Article 19(2) - the audit report is submitted to the Ministry of Finance; Article 20(1) - supervision of the legality of the work of the Fund shall be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and Article 20(2) - the Ministry of Finance shall submit at least once a year a report on the results of the supervision and the report on the audit carried out by the Serbian Government. This shows the intensity that all the authorities and all the powers associated with this fund go to the hands of the Ministry of Finance. Here is the basic question - what is the subject of this guarantee fund law. Is the subject of the Guarantee Fund itself or is the subject of this law an incentive for the development of economic operators? If the subject matter of this law is to encourage the development of economic operators, and should be so, then it would be logical that all these powers, which have been transferred to the Ministry of Finance, be returned or remain, as provided for in the basic version of the law, to the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2124	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative is not here. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION ON THE FINANCE TRANSACTIONS, ON USE, COUNTRY AND ACTIVITIES OF GOODS AND ACCIZATION (joint principled search on 4, 5 and 6) I would like to remind you that, pursuant to Article 90, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction tax law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to briefly explain these three tax laws. When we talk about the Financial transaction Tax Act, it is about an anachronous tax solution that was introduced under the heading of financing for the reconstruction of houses due to earthquakes that hit the Valjev end in time, and later its use extended to other purposes entirely. The tax burdens all transactions both citizens and businesses have. We propose to abolish this tax starting on 1 January 2005, and until then we propose to abolish certain forms. In fact, at this point in time, there is no trade in securities of value, precisely because of this financial transaction tax, so we hereby exempt the financial transaction tax immediately from trading securities on the secondary market. Also, under this law, we release taxes on financial transactions of permanent reproduction to allow the central bank to run a modern monetary policy in this way. Then, they are exempt from the financial transaction tax all payments based on the central deposit register tariffs and the securities clearing from the value. It is important to release immediately the transaction tax on the granting of credit to clients and the return of credit to customers to banks. In this way, interest rates will be additionally able to fall, given that this tax burdens interest rates. So, this law proposes that the financial transaction tax be fully abolished as of 1 January 2005, and that for these forms, which I have now stated, the suspension be carried out immediately after the adoption of the law. Otherwise, the total loss due to the abolition of some tax forms in this law for this year in Serbia's budget amounts to only 2.8 million dinars, for the simple reason that many transactions did not even take place, as the financial transaction tax prevented them. When we abolish the financial transaction tax for securities trading on the secondary market, this trade will happen, so that the capital market will actually be accelerated. The second law I'd like to talk about today is to amend the Law on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods. The finance ministry's policy is to lower taxes on those forms that need to stimulate production. As you know, this assembly passed a tax-revealing law 15 days ago. So we intend to cut taxes on labour costs, not to burden production with taxes, and on the other hand, to reduce taxes to the poorest layers of the population. But that's why we tax those who have the economic power to pay that tax. That's the logic we had when we proposed amendments to this law. A few changes have been proposed here. As regards registration of motor vehicles, the amount of taxes for lower cubicity vehicles is reduced. Therefore, for vehicles up to 2000 cubic metres, the amount of the tax burden is reduced, while the amount of taxes for vehicles over 2000 cubic metres is increased, and that, in particular, for vehicles up to 1150 cubic metres, the tax will be 500 dinars, which was 600 in the previous law; for vehicles from 1150 to 1300 cc's taxes will be 1000 dinars, which amounted to 1200; for vehicles from 1300 to 1600 cc's will be 2200 dinars, and it was 2400. The same tax remains for vehicles from 1600 to 2000 cubic metres, while significantly increasing for vehicles over 2000 cubic metres. For vehicles from 2000 to 2500 cubic metres from the current 10,000, vehicles from 2500 to 3000 cubic metres increased from current 20,000 to 30,000, and for vehicles over 3000 cubic metres of taxes increased from 30,000 dinars to 40,000. Then, a special category of taxation of legal persons is introduced, with the minimum amount of taxes for vehicles being cheaper and lower cubicity, lower engine power, while for vehicles over 3000 cubic metres, owned by lawyers, this tax will be 50,000 dinars. The government has accepted the amendment to improve the conditions of release in relation to the age of the vehicle, so that release for vehicles between five and eight years of age will be 15%, and for vehicles between eight and 10 years of age will be 25%, and for vehicles over 10 years of age the release will be 40%. In this way, we wanted to meet those owners who are now unable to buy new vehicles to register, except for the reduction in the amount of taxes for those vehicles, were further released with a larger amount. As far as motorcycles are concerned, that tax remains the same as it was in the current law. We've significantly reduced our boat owners' taxes. So, for all boats up to 15 metres long, taxes are lifted. No tax is paid for boat owners up to 15m long, while by boats over 15m long with motor power, by yachts, increases three times. It is increasing by the amount of inflation from 2001 to today, which is 50% tax on water catering facilities. So for rafts per square target this tax will be 2.250,00 dinars, which is 50% higher than the previous solution. As far as gun-holding taxes are concerned, taxes are lifted for all types of hunting and trophy weapons, and for hunting caravans and combined hunting weapons, for a hunting rifle, for a small-caliber gun, a small-caliber revolver, a small-caliber rifle, an air rifle, an air pistol, a bow, a crossbow and every trophy weapon independent of species. However, taxes for holding semi-automated and automatic rifles are increasing by 35% and 67% by semi-automated rifles. Also, 2.2 times the gun-holding tax issued by the gun-holding list for personal security, from the current 900,00 dinars to 2,000.00 dinars. I remind, however, that members of the military and police who exercise the right to retire under this law, and this right has not changed, the right to retain a copy of the weapon without paying taxes. So this doesn't apply to members of the former military or the police. They can hold one weapon for memory without paying taxes. For those of you who use it for other purposes, we want to literally collect weapons. In particular, there is an increase in the taxes on weapons for which a license for carrying a personal security weapon has been issued, and these are various security agencies. They raise the tax amount from 4.500,00 to 10,000.00 dinars. As for aircraft and aircraft, three times the tax on the use of all types of private aircraft, whether it's transport planes or sports planes. So the tax goes up three times, because we think that whoever uses these services really has the money to pay them and the tax needs to be significantly increased. When we talk about mobile phones, we accepted the amendment, or the Government accepted an amendment that abolished the mobile phone tax from 1 January 2005, and until then no change in the tax on prepaid users, and for postpaid users it is harmonised for the amount of inflation from 2001 to 2003. The reason why we didn't immediately cancel this mobile phone fee is because this income was projected in budget revenues. However, we believe that it is justified to abolish the tax and for this reason we have accepted the amendment of the parliamentary groups that have proposed that the suspension begin as of 1 January 2005. It would be all about this other law that the government has proposed. The third law is the law on amendments to the Excise Act. The finance ministry has proposed the abolition of excise duties for seven product types. First of all, we have suggested that excise duty be abolished for lignite oil, jet fuel and jet fuel, motor oil and oil, oil for lighting, liquid oil gas, ethyl alcohol and for all domestic juices and non-alcoholic beverages. I must say, it is certainly the most important thing here to lift the excise duty on the vine oil, given that a large number of schools, hospitals and other institutions today in Serbia are using this type of fuel. As for the amount of excise duty to be abolished, the suspension of the excise duty today amounted to 8.71 dinar per litre, and now it's going to be zero. The excise duty on motor oils and oil is lifted. Today, this excise is as much as 48.45 dinars, and because of this excise, there is a huge smuggling of motor oil and oil. We decided to completely lift this excise. So that's going to lead to significant cheaping. It is also very important that we abolished the butane gas excise because many households use fuel for butan gas stoves, and more and more are used in transport. It's an ecologically clean form of energy. That's why we want to stimulate him through the elimination of excise duties. Of course, if we cancel and reduce one group of taxes, in order to balance the budget, we need to increase those taxes that represent the most important source of income in the country. The government therefore proposed to increase the excise duty on motor gasoline and diesel fuel by three dinars, for A Group cigarettes by two dinars, following the adoption of amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups, and for Group B for dinar and for Group C for one dinar. So, since the amendments have been tabled, the government has adopted these amendments, so the increase in excise duties for cigarettes will be two dinars, one dinar for Group B and one dinar for Group C. Then, the excise duty for all kinds of natural brandy and vines does not change, but therefore increases the excise duty for other strong and alcoholic beverages, both for whiskey, gin and cognac and, of course, for various liqueurs and masha import alcoholic beverages. It also increases excise duty for all types of import juices and non-alcoholic beverages. In this way, by abolishing excise duties on domestic juices and non-alcoholic beverages and increasing excise duties on imported juices and non-alcoholic beverages, we will stimulate our fruit growing and our food industry. As for producers of foreign brands, such as coke and others, if produced in Serbia, excise duty will not be paid. Of course, if imports are paid excise duty. So we stimulate the move of production from abroad to Serbia, which is good for the employment of our workers. If the total amount of excise duties is transferred to prices, the total direct effect on the rise in prices is 0.46%. This means that it is relatively small, given that inflation in the first three months of this year was 1.7% and 7.3% on an annual basis, with these 0.46% clearly we are still far below the level of projected inflation for this year. As you know, budget projections predicted that this year's inflation would be at a maximum of 8.5% to 9% on an annual basis. Therefore, even if the total amount of these excise duties is installed in retail prices, including sales tax, which is calculated on an increased basis, the overall effect on inflation is not great. On the other hand, this is how we redistribute taxes, from salary taxes to excise duties on oil products, cigarettes, heavy alcoholic beverages, and it's really the only way to justly tax taxpayers. There's also a way of calculating the excise on coffee. Instead of the fixed amount so far, the excise fee has been fixed regardless of the quality of the coffee, it goes to so-called. ad valorem system, which means that excise duties will be calculated at 40% relative to the value of coffee. The more coffee quality, the higher excise duty will be paid, the lower the quality coffee, of course the lower the excise duty, and it is clear that citizens who do not have the right standard and cannot buy more expensive coffee have an additional discharge in the budget. As for those more wealthy, they should pay a higher price for coffee. If we talk about excise duties on motor gasoline and diesel fuel, even if the total amount of excise duty on motor gasoline of 95 octan, which is three dinars, is built into a retail price, the price of gasoline in Serbia will continue to be lower than the average in the region. It will carry 77 cents in dinar equivalent, i.e. 78, which is the average, and will be lower by 10 cents in dinar equivalent to Montenegro's petrol price. As far as 98 octane gasoline are concerned, if the total amount of excise duties of three dinars is installed in a retail price, the retail price will be 83 cents compared to the average of 84 cents in the region, while compared to Montenegro, this gas will continue to be cheaper by three cents. As for diesel fuel, if a total excise of three dinars were installed in retail prices, then the price of diesel in Serbia would still be six cents lower than the average price in the region, while by nine cents it would be lower than prices in Montenegro. So the space certainly exists, with it clear that manufacturers can decide for themselves whether the total amount of this increase will be installed at the price or possibly on the burden of their margins one part will benefit. I just missed to say that as for the taxation of cigarettes, we also accepted the DSS amendment, to introduce a special ad valorem excise on cigarettes, i.e. cigarillos in circles that consume it, it's called tampus. It's a excise that didn't exist, and I think it's really clear that it's a layer of population that has the money to use it, and we've accepted the amendment to introduce an ad valorem excise of 30% on all kinds of cigars and cigarillos. So the higher the value, the greater the amount of excise duty, and we accepted the amendment to increase the excise duty on all the products of the "c" cigarette by one dinar and we are just starting from the use of the poorest layers of the population. I have to say, of course, changing the Excise Act itself isn't enough. The Ministry of Finance will, in the coming period, and this has already been shown in the past week, take a truly permanent, intensive activity to curb smuggling of all kinds, especially cigarettes and other products to which producers, importers or those who smuggle do not pay taxes to the state. I must say that we already carried out a very serious coordinated action in 26 Serbian cities last week, 50 trades have been closed over a month, since cigarettes without excise stamps or with Kosovo and Croatia's excise stamps have been found in those trades, which means it's the stuff that's broke. We've also put in a power plant and an X-ray that customs has, to detect smuggled cigarettes in transports that aren't declared to be the transport of cigarettes. However, we are also going into control of the so-called. a discount, or wholesale, because we've also sent a warning that I can't afford cash anymore, for cash to sell goods in trades. Given that this has been tolerated in the past decades, this government indeed intends to collect serious revenues based on better coordination and better work of customs and tax police. Of course, for now, we've only closed individual trades. In the future, we'll close the entire chains, since the tobacco law allows it. So first we start with these preventive measures, and then of course all the measures will be stricter and stricter. We expect only on the basis of better excise charges, even without increasing additional revenues in the budget, only with cigarettes of three billion dinars. In addition to the rigorous control of cigarettes, the government will implement this with other products, primarily in textiles, the shoes of Euro-Asian origin, as well as in white techniques. The entire industries are currently in the gray economy, and I guarantee you that within a year the current amount of the grey economy, which is 50% of the social gross product, will be aware of the 20 per cent tolerable. What was the problem in previous governments is the non-connection of the information base of the tax administration, customs, the Commission for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the National Bank of Serbia. We've been silent for the past month, not talking much, but we've done a lot of work to connect these databases. This is why we really want to lastly warn all those who are in the gray economy that there will be no tolerance for such a way of doing business, because avoidance of tax payments means avoiding the financing of public functions of the state, public institutions, such as health, education, social protection, and that is why this ministry is going to go on to charge taxes contained in these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2126	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2127	I have to warn the seed sellers in the opposing contests that the minister has decided to suppress the gray economy, to be careful, since he cannot hit the big mobsters. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, every government goes into office with taxes, excises, contributions, that will only be most likely, and this one has to because it has made a budget that otherwise cannot be filled. Now let's go, say, from the Excise Act. The minister boasts that he removes excise duties on ethanol, oil for hatching, motor oil, liquid oil gas, oil oil for lighting, and, in an explanation, acknowledges what we all know is not an income. It is very easy to give up income which is not available, but therefore increases excise duties on what citizens are spending, and these are all types of motor gasoline and all kinds of diesel fuel, so that we who have never spent a lot of oil in Serbia before, now we will not spend it even cheaper, and we who have spent gasoline and oil will now spend even more expensive. I hear that an amendment has been accepted regarding excise duties on cigarettes of Group C, but that's no excuse for a promoter who, in the interest of a tobacco lobby, forgot that these cigarettes of Group C smokes poverty and that they have to be cheaper than other kinds of cigarettes. It is reintroduced for certain excise products of value, so you convince us that there are different kinds of coffees, so whoever wants to drink quality and expensive coffee can pay more customs. And what about the drinks whose prices are moving in range 1:10? Why is the customs duty established in the dinar amount, regardless of what the value of the drink is? Why is it the same excise of 126 dinars for 500 and 5,000 dinar whiskey? Last night, I heard a representative of the ruling party, I mean the ruling finance party, who said that coke would not succumb to the excise payment because it was a domestic drink. So it's a homemade non-alcoholic drink. Now I'm very interested in what basis coke is a homemade non-alcoholic drink, from which it is made, from raw materials imported and from tap water. Now, because of that water of ours, you release the excise coke and still insult the manufacturer, so you say it's our homemade potion. So we're going to increase the base for the production of non-alcoholic drinks, home base, so we're going to finance our domestic production of non-alcoholic beverages, and you know that the excise duty is 5.42 dinars per litre. What's the purpose of the new excise law? To secure additional revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget, not to free citizens. Whoever wanted to free the citizens would have reduced the excise duties on the products that are being spent. The one who wanted to burden the citizens with their excise duties on what they had to spend every day in the house, which the family had to spend on a daily basis. Even more hypocritical is the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods. I see that some of them here were getting ready to applaud, because the minister said that he finally freed the hunting weapons of taxes and from there somewhere, he came from the window, from you animal killers, came applause, yes, so he did, when you go hunting as a criminal expedition, each for a sniper and an automatic rifle, all for checks, radars for guidance, and what has a poor animal, and you're also freed from excises to kill. I know everyone likes to court hunters, choirs, all in a row, but they need to lead the country seriously and with the intention of living in it honestly and honestly. You're not saying hunters have already been released from paying taxes on hunting weapons -- those who are members of the hunting association. Whoever owns the hunting grounds, who secures the shooting range for you, binds matters when you have to kill them. Now it's only extended to ten pieces of weapons you're carrying out hunting, and earlier it's been limited, because it's been calculated that we're going to need some animals for these kids who are now born and that they can recognize, not just from pictures, but to see somewhere live. I don't understand why you're boasting about cutting taxes on all the hunting weapons, and you're increasing your taxes on weapons for personal safety. I really don't understand what kind of state you're preparing for us, if you're increasing our arms tax issued with a license to hold or carry, for weapons that you can only keep at home, and so far there's 900 dinars of taxes, now 2,000 dinars, and for the weapons for which the permit has been issued for carrying, you're increasing the arms tax to 10,000 dinars. What sign is that, what signal is that, what message is that to the citizens of Serbia? What if a man keeps a hunting rifle in his house, uses it for personal safety, you can send him to prison because he used for personal safety weapons he didn't pay his house tax. What's the difference between a hunting weapon and a weapon that serves for personal safety? What bothers you is that people who hold a gun in the house or a gun for personal defense are prescribed that kind of tax. Let's all get that weapon back to the state and not pay taxes. Yes, but you'll kill us like rabbits, so you will, that's the point. It'll work for everyone. This boat thing was funny anyway, but you've got one block of taxes on everything called a boat, and there's a boat up to 10 meters with a cabin. Is it a boat, or is it so pompous that it could be baptized and a yacht, because a yacht, you say, has 15 or more meters, and a boat up to 15 meters, luxuriously equipped exclusively for anger, and anger, I say, is not subject to paying any tax for use, wearing and how you call it all good taxes. I see you haven't accepted the amendment, we've been approached by members of some airmen's association, and they say there are planes that aren't used for anger, but for training, for schooling, for agricultural aviation, I think you should be heard for such demands. All in all, you will charge more than the previous government, and you will last shorter than the previous government. Not to talk about the financial transaction tax. We have submitted one bill, to completely abolish it, and then the other one to continue to collect that tax until the amount of 700 million dinars is reached, which is about a three-month amount, which we would provide for a recovery, repair of the Hilandary monastery. You refused, there is no agenda for this proposal, but there is your proposal to continue with this tax, you say by the end of this year, and that will be about the end of your term. It seems that from now on, the government is recommending everything to us by the end of that year, because it is not sure whether it will remain in power next year or not. The government that wants to cheer the citizens of Serbia... Here, I'm finishing up... does not expose them to new taxes and excises. If you can't stop the old ones, don't increase them. If you can't reduce them, don't increase them. These were the grounds for criticizing a previous government, the previous previous, former former. It wasn't taxes back then. That's when they were taxes. It could have been that the government fell because it introduced a tax on a mobile phone, because it introduced a gun tax, although that tax was never charged until you were in another, more original form, as DOS came to power. We may have given you an idea, but it was a time of war, when the state had no budget and spent it defending itself. This is peacetime, the state has a budget, the state already compares prices in the centre environment. Once that difference was in stamps, and now we've already arrived at the centimeter and then watch to provide us with at least 50 cents similar life to those lives that governments in the environment provide to their citizens. Don't just compare our prices. Of course, one day in Europe, prices will be there, balanced, and it will be whatever country you buy in, but it doesn't matter what country you make money in. In this country, very few people earn money to buy products, especially these products exposed to excise duties and special taxes. That would be my advice to this government. One more tip, don't try too hard here that each of you, every political party that is a member of the government, is trying to keep its pre-election promises through this assembly. I know you've made a lot of promises, but we can't stand the flood of keeping your promises. Sit down and discuss what is most needed by this Serbia, which is the law most needed and that is why we sit down and talk about it. This beautiful promise, and one day the bill that promised DSS the campaign, and the second day the bill promised by G17 plus in the campaign, and I expect now that my friend, great friend and brother Meho Omerovic, also submits his laws that he promised in the campaign, because all of you are now preparing for the new campaigns by passing the laws that you had promised during the previous campaigns. We will vote against these laws because they are wrong and because the minister who explains these laws doesn't deserve our attention doesn't deserve our vote. The minister who has explained these laws, who has still been held by hatred since October 5th, does not deserve to explain at all on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2128	Please choose your words and I'll warn you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2129	When a SPO warns me to choose words, the climate has changed. So as long as the finance minister explains the laws in the Serbian Parliament, we will be against those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2130	Who wants a replica? On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2131	I've received a replica based on requests as a representative of the hunters who are offended here. In the last term, which they remember, Mr. Tome certainly intervened on that basis, I had an amendment that freed tax hunters, but not completely, but all on two rifles. Mr. Nikolic has offended over 80,000 hunters. At the best years in Serbia, there were over 100,000 hunters who were members of hunting associations. There are now 80,000 of them. Mr. Nikolic, you can't call 80,000 people animal killers. We don't kill animals, we shoot animals. That's a big difference. Secondly, you should know that there's a sanitary gunshot, there's a master's plan as it works. So it's not all about meat function, as you assume. Hunters are one of the few who care about nature. There's something called saving the game, something called taking care of the game. So when it snows, when it's very cold, when you're all sitting next to warm furnaces, hunters go out, into the cold, they take care of those animals to survive. Therefore, I ask you to treat the hunters well in the future. I thought of something. I almost read that he's a big animal lover, that he cares more about animals than people, Mrs. Brigitte Bardot. He says he has a lot of friends in Serbia. You're not among the radicals to have a friend named Brigitte Bardo? So I pray that we no longer express ourselves about hunters so uglyly, because it's a multi-human, organized group of people and, therefore, they didn't deserve to be treated that way. Secondly, I don't really see why it is. As far as I understand the minister and as far as I'm concerned, it's only for the weapon that's worn. So for a weapon standing in the house as a defense, that's absolutely legal. Therefore, we tell all those who want to carry weapons that we will build such a society that there is no need to carry arms, and anyone who has a calm conscience has no need for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2132	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2133	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not speak of hunters. Col. Tomislav Nikolic gave me the right to replicate the Social Democratic Party and the possibility that we, as one of the parties participating in the Serbian government, would propose a set of laws. On this occasion, Mr Nikolic, and all the MPs, I would like to say that the SDP will propose a law on the abolition of the shameful law on the assistance of The Hague indictees, which was recently passed in this assembly. Another in a row, according to us from the Social Democratic Party, important laws that will be passed regarding employment and social policy areas. The SDP will work in every way possible, although this is not foreseen in the 2004 Republika Srpska budget, to take advantage of the possibility of connecting its employment to hundreds of thousands of employees in Serbia who have been disabled by the rule of some former authorities, even though they have performed their jobs in a safe and honest manner. I appreciate the opportunity to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2134	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2135	Article 100. At least as small as the party you represent, at least as much as the Government depends on it, never say that the National Assembly has passed a shameful law. The National Assembly cannot pass a shameful law because we represent the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens cannot pass a shameful law. He may be a disgrace to you, but Mr. Omerovic, if someone caught you, stuck a bag on your head and drove you to The Hague, you'd say that's where you needed help. This law is a kind of help, and I hope that the institutions and the other, legal assistance in defence, will enable all Hague prisoners. Maybe you're embarrassed, like me, that these people are in The Hague. If this relationship is a disgraceful law, I accept this claim of yours. But that here some of the majority of the MPs honour the passing of a shameful law and that it remains without the chairman's comment, and when I say that we will not vote for the law proposed by Mladjan Dinkic and be warned, then something with values in this assembly is wrong. Some people here have executed the compass. Don't, please, whatever the National Assembly is, it held you back in 2001, when you broke the decisions of the National Assembly before you, and said that they were shameful, all of them participated, and my countryman who laughs now, but, you know, the National Assembly is never ashamed of his people. The people know who they're going to choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2136	Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, today I will speak as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group on proposed laws by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, the Democratic Party will vote against the law on amending and supplementing the Excise Act, and will support the abolition of the tax on financial transactions and amendments to the Law on Holding and Wearing certain goods. We believe that the amendments and additions of the Law on the keeping and bearing of certain goods of cosmetic nature, will have no effect on the budget, neither on income nor on the dispensary side. In fact, it is about increasing the burden on certain categories, certain items that are not essentially over-represented and have not benefited from the budget so far, but it is good that for that part of the cheaper goods the burdens are reduced and that the effect will certainly be visible. However, from the point of view of the budget, there are no additional revenues by increasing the burdens of the so-called so-called budget. The richer part of the population. With this in mind, this attempt will not be a successful attempt to increase the total budget revenues and thus replace the identified budget deficit of the entire 55 billion dinars, which we discussed during the debate on the budget law. On the other hand, amendments to the Excise Act are very dangerous. They can also have both direct negative effects, but also long-term, and I'll explain how. They mean significantly increased budget revenue, but also a burden on the economy and the population. When I say that amendments to the Excise Act can have a negative effect in the long term, I mean, first of all, the investment environment. I am talking about the change in excise policy, i.e. the level of excise duties in tobacco and tobacco products, precisely because, during the past year, we had two of the most successful privatisation transactions, where, in addition to the legal regulation of excise policy since 2005, there was a further agreement, not written, but certainly oral, that excise policy will not change in 2004, based on mutual trust, which investors created by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has prepared an environment for the transaction. I will remind you, both the Duvana Industry Nis and the Duvaska Industry Vranje are two of the most successful privatisations, not in Serbia-Montenegro, but in all of Central Europe, and that is not my assessment, and that is not the assessment of MPs of the Democratic Party, but an assessment of international institutions, which have spent all their time monitoring the privatisation process in all Central European countries. If you have high revenues from privatisation because you have established an excise policy since 2005 and at the same time reached a fair agreement, oral, but concluded on the basis of trust, with a potential investor, and therefore receive more than 450m euros in revenue for the budget, and certainly over 250m euros in investments for Nis and Vranje, and certainly in the long term set the development of not only cigarette production but also all other related services. And I'm going to remind you of 1,000 employees in the production of cigarettes, another 5,000 employees are employed in service activities, and if you break that gentlemen's agreement behind that, it certainly can't affect the investment environment. I noticed that after the proposed law, an amendment that was accepted in the meantime, which was accepted by the government, but until until the Assembly voted on this amendment from this post, I will speak exclusively of the original text of the law sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So it's not good that the investment environment, the economic environment, depends on which party is in power. It is not good to agree with large multinational companies, which have highly built ethical codes, standards of behaviour, policy and procedure, to break the agreement with them in this way and that there is room for additional collection of tax revenues, in order to cover that large budget gap, which exists in the 2004 budget, and I have already said, I am not talking about 45 billion dinars, but we are talking about a much larger sum, when the amount of funding deficits is included. That we were right when we talked about the budget law, that there wouldn't be budget revenues to cover budget expenditures, but also the events that came a month later. As you know, pensions are not paid to pensioners when it was due, before the holiday, before Easter. I don't know if they're paid today. I happen to have a pensioner in my family, so I know that the term that's been respected three years in a row, every given date, in advance, that now, here's an incomplete month and a half after the formation of the new government, that deadline breaks. This is not good because pensions are first started and then changed to other budget expenditures, to other users, to teachers, to doctors, to all others who can be denied due to reduced budget revenues, but raising excise duties and an additional burden on the economy in this way is certainly not a good way to cover the identified budget deficit, which is 45 billion dinars, plus a fund deficit, shown five billion and one part for which there is a legitimate analysis that is significantly greater. Instead of going towards discharging this bill, there is an additional burden on the economy. I'd say population, too. But not necessarily. We have already heard explanations that there will be no increase in the price of oil and oil derivatives, i.e. oil derivatives by the NIS. It is likely that this increase will come from private owners gathered in private associations. I don't know how Lukoil will react, Beopetrol. We will see, but even if the oil industry of Serbia decides to compensate for the additional excise burden of the refinery processing, then the oil industry of Serbia will have weaker results and will not achieve, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, 500 million profits, dinars, as it has achieved in the past year, but will again come into a suspicious loss zone, and will not have enough of its own resources to restructure the Refinery in Pancheva and the Refinery in Novi Sad. It'll be a consequence. So, you can't both goat and money. If we are not going to add to the population by our state, to say conditionally, oil and oil suppliers, then there must be a reduction in the refinery price, then there will be no funds for investments, and then in the long run we will have a less quality refinery, and then we will reduce the chances of successful restructuring and for final privatisation and then, if this spiral continues, the refineries in Bulgaria and Romania will definitely sink us and we will be left without what is important for the oil industry of each country. I also think that the Excise Law proposal is not good and that instead of reducing the gray economy, the smuggling of excise products, it will further increase them. This doesn't apply to oil for lubricating, refinery oils or whatever they're called. Here I welcome the Serbian government's decision to lift excise duties on motor oil and oil for oil, because I am convinced that it will be there to win the fight against smuggling. If you take a closer look, you'll see that most of the motor oil is being smuggled today precisely because of high excise duties. But that good effect, on the other hand, will show you that we will have a negative effect where the excise load increases. First of all, I mean those key excise products like tobacco, cigarettes and, of course, alcoholic beverages. So instead of reducing the degree of the grey economy, instead of reducing the level of tax burden and thus dragging illegal flows into the legal ones, we're going to have a reverse effect. This case is famous, for example. In the United States. When there was a sudden excise load of tobacco and tobacco products, instead of reducing the level of tobacco consumption, there was a huge smuggling coming from Canada to the United States, precisely because of the unrealistic increase in excise products. So, respecting the time we have to discuss today, to use my right for the first ten minutes, Mr. Chairman. What I'm saying is that it's not good to change a defined excise policy with the excise law, for the reasons mentioned above. It's not good to change the economic environment for investors who have already invested their money here. It is not good to raise the excise burden, because you will directly raise the level of gray economy in the transport of these goods, which are excisely burdened and not a good excise burden, because in this way you will have an additional burden for the economy, an additional burden for the population. Not good, but if a cure is sought to cover the budget deficit, first of all, it is necessary to cut budget expenditures, which should be, first of all, a clear political consensus in the coalition of parties in power, which, quite frankly, we cannot see exists, and that means reducing key items of budgetary spending. On the other hand, it is necessary to enter into the operationalisation of the tax administration. Of course we respect the efforts that the previous ministry has begun, that the DS will welcome every quality step taken on this plan. Today there was an interesting controversy about how someone pays taxes and someone doesn't pay. It is natural for residents and businessmen to try to minimise their giving to the state. The measure in which the state will charge tax depends on the degree of effectiveness of the tax administration depends on how much stimulating mechanisms you can increase budgetary procedures while raising business activity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid that by changing the Excise Act, we will not have a stimulating effect on business activity in Serbia, but we will get an additional tax burden and further reduce competitiveness, and citizens will know to compare what is being offered today in the Serbian Parliament with the pre-election promises that were made during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-14-0.u2138	Since it's 18 hours, we're finishing work today. Resumption is tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
