ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u18	I don't have an update, I want to explain the proposal. These are brand-new candidates, new elections are being held. You could have said the same thing - these can't be candidates, they're not chosen last time. So it's all about the beginning. I want to explain the proposal for Godana Pop-Lazic to be the president of the National Assembly. The explanation is clear. For Gordana Pop-Lazic were voted by patriotically defined voters in Serbia, voters who want the Assembly to finally cease to be a place where the rights of MPs will be threatened, a place where decisions and laws will be made in an unconstitutional, illegal and non-business way, a place where all those who are dealing with politics will lose a slow reputation among Serbian citizens. Gordana Pop-Lazic is currently the only candidate of the patriotic forces, the only candidate behind whose candidacy is no MP who has any affair, which is burdened with any criminal past, no MP who has not deserved to enter parliament. Gordana Pop-Lazic supports her parliamentary list, the list she was selected as MP. It's clear to the voters here. When they voted for the SRS, they also voted for one of us to be president of the National Assembly, and they left us to decide for ourselves. That is why it takes precedence over all other candidates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To stop all this, I suggest that today we make this agreement publicly, to choose Gordana Pop-Lazic as president of the National Assembly and that Gordana Pop-Lazic lead the National Assembly to the government's election, to the establishment of the majority that will elect the government, and then Gordana Pop-Lazic will resign as president, aware that you have found the goals, that you have found the motives for joining. Today's election by the president of the assembly is to throw fog into the public of Serbia, collecting oil and fuel, gathering into one majority against the SRS. If there is no Bata Zivojinović, I have the greatest parliamentary experience in the Assembly and let me tell you one thing: whoever teamed up against the SRS was infamous. Now, as quiet as you're reacting now, in 2001, it couldn't stand the decibel, and now you're reacting quietly. So think carefully about what you're doing. We have highlighted the best candidate for Parliament's president, we are helping you solve the crisis you have produced in Serbia with your infamous arrangements. I am talking exclusively about an SRS candidate, I am talking about a list candidate who won the parliamentary elections and who will win all elections held in Serbia this year. You can team up however you want, but if you understand yourself a little bit in politics, you would avoid, you who still look like unsullied politicians in Serbia, getting dirty just to prevent a party whose voters gave the most votes to take advantage of it, to realize its reputation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the majority of votes are elected today, we, by the law that gives us the election result, will file candidates for the post of vice-president, for the seats of the president, vice-president and members of the board. We ask you to respect the democratic procedure to agree on all the functions before the vote, to vote on all the vice-presidential seats at once, to vote on all the committees at once and to agree, as honorable people, on the functions of those committees. If it happens again in 2001, if you try to fool us by voting in any way, we will do what we did in 2001 – we will withdraw all of our bids, and you will wait for what waited for DOS already in 2002, but by stealing votes in parliament it has delayed it for another year and a half. So, once again, I suggest you vote (Pop-Lazic) as a candidate for National Assembly President.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u19	I would like to thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic and ask if they would like an explanation or a supplement of Mr marsician's candidate candidate? No, I don't. ( ) Since we decided last time to vote in public, call for a vote, we approach the vote. I ask you for a little silence so you can hear your names and we can hear who votes here. Mr. Tadic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u20	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question whether MPs or the heads of Parliament's clubs have the opportunity to declare themselves candidates or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u21	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u22	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u23	Because we decided there was no debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u24	Now Mr Nikolic reminded the chairman that this is a new circumstance, that these are new candidates, legally and formally. I'm sorry I have to agree with the Serbian Radical Party. It's very difficult for me to agree with that party, but this is a new circumstance, new candidates, no matter what their names are. So what was voted last time is not true for this time. If, Mr. Chairman, you thought this session was being held in the atmosphere of silence, I absolutely disagree and I would like to explain the DS position in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u25	Mr. Tadic, last time we made a decision by a vast majority, saying unanimously, that the candidates were not under discussion. This is just a follow-up session, there are no important moments. I was just asking if the promoters wanted to make some additions to their proposals and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u26	Mr. Chairman, it's absolutely legal, impossible. So this is a new situation, new candidates, new circumstances, and these are the circumstances in which certain political changes occurred between the last and this session. These political changes were sent to the public in a very busy way. There have been new alliances, political alliances, new circumstances, so the candidates who supported some parties last time are not the same, but are now supported by other parties. The fact that they are supported by other parties requires that these candidates be discussed. If I were a candidate for parliament's president who is supported, for example, by the Democratic Party at a one-session session, and the next day by the Serbian Radical Party, I would not be the same candidate. I don't give a god, but I wouldn't be the same candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u27	Mr. Tadic, we'll sort it out in a very elegant way. I'll put it back on the vote whether we want a debate or not and the story is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u28	Before you put it to the vote, I have really one warning, in order to be in the spirit of democratic principles, that parties, their parliamentary clubs can declare themselves candidates, because the public of Serbia must know the position of political parties. This is a pay phone, a public speaker, a Serbian speaker, where it is necessary to express the position of political parties on candidates, parliamentary coalitions, the future of Serbia. (Toma Nikolic, from place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u29	There's no need. Don't rephrase it. I'll put it to a vote. Please, sit down. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u30	Mr Simonovic, I know that in these three years you have learned how to prevent MPs from speaking, but not only did I mention myself personally, the party has been mentioned several times. My replica will be very short, but I don't know why you're stopping me from speaking. Your sin is greater that you do not allow it to be discussed at the assembly session on candidates for the president of the assembly, we will discuss candidates for some members of the board of directors, and we will not discuss candidates for the president of the assembly. It is saddened here that someone must agree with the Serbian Radical Party's stance. Mr. Tadic, you will soon be in deep mourning because in everything you agree with the Serbian Radical Party. Only now will you meet us and be able to think of us as people who deserve to be thought of. Now that you've met this DB.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u31	Please, the word is Mr. Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u32	We, fellow MPs, agreed at the previous session, in which we did not reach the speaker of the assembly, to talk about candidates. We can change that rule. The DSS doesn't mind. A team, before these big words in favour of the public debate, came from representatives of the DS party, who, in breach of all the rules last year, broke the debate on non-trust with the government, avoided the debate in this assembly. So there can be debates about candidates, but last time one rule was adopted to declare them only by proposings, so on behalf of DSS Mr. Mihajlov, on behalf of the SRS Mr. Nikolic. That's the rule adopted. On the other hand, Mr Tadic took the decision to pass the vote, as who will vote. We can't say at this point. We will know after the end of the session, as after the end of the session of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, that Mr. Micunovic was also voted by Branislav Ivkovic, so one party that does not fall into the ranks of those parties that the DS would declare to be a party of democratic orientation. Therefore, things here are clear rules that are such that representatives of those parties who have submitted to the candidacy are made known. The DS had a chance to go out with its candidate, so to see what kind of support he would get. After those 12 per cent in the public of Serbia, let's see what the DS would get in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u33	The word is Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u34	I thank the DSS for the applause while I was going out for the pay phone. Really, come on, calm down, gentlemen. Listen to what we have to say, as we have listened carefully to what you say. So my line is this - if you think that a proper democratic and complete debate on candidates for Parliament's president would be led by only the heads of parliamentary groups of parties proposed by the president of parliament, I don't know what it is to respect the democratic public. They are only the promoters, but I guess candidates for Parliament's president are entitled and should be given their opinion and representatives of the parties who received votes in the previous elections. A little, but still your opinion. I thank and expect that at this session, we will establish democratic principles, have the opportunity to talk, at least about candidates for Parliament's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u35	But, Mr. Tadic, you were present when we voted not to hold the debate. Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, last time, with votes and the Democratic Party, a decision was made not to hold a debate, but to approach the vote after saying. It was a decision within the second item of the agenda, which we are discussing today. That's one thing. The other thing is, we might be happy to listen to DS, but since there are more voices, we don't know which one to hear. There's always one that prevails, unlike the one we listen to here, so, I don't know, then we expand the debate beyond this assembly, so we can hear all the voices, make a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u37	So, I would suggest, however, that I don't mind not respecting some democratic rule, that we now rise our hands again and say whether or not we're going to have a debate. Please, who's in favor of not having a discussion raise your hand? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: This assembly is not negative. ) Wait, buddy, the suggestion was not to run. That was the first proposal. Who's in favor of not having a discussion? It means that the debate was not conducted by 126 MPs, and that is more than half of them present. Therefore, the debate will not take place. We're going to vote. As I draw your attention, the secretary will read your names, and I will repeat those names and we will record who votes. Albijanić Miloljub (Maršjanin), Albić Bojana (Maršićan), Aligrudić Milos (Maršić), Anastasovski Dragoljub (Pop-Lazić), Angelković Zoran (Maršić), Antića Zoran (Pop-Lazić), Arsić Veroljub (Pop-Lazić), Adžić Slobodan (Maršić), Badžanić Dr Javić (Maršić), Banović Donka (Maršić), Baralić Rajko (Maršić), Barac Milun (Pop-Lazić), Belić Branislav (sponsored), Belic (Maršić), Bečić Igor Igor (Pop-Lazdarić) (Popović) Dr Branislav (Pop-Lazić) Mr Nenad (main) Bozaljan (main), Bozaloslav Dragan (Pop-Laz) (Pop-Lazić Branka (Pop-Lazić Branka), Bošnjak Branka), Bošić Branka (Maršić) (Marsin), Bulić) (Marsina (Maršić (Malić) (Malić) (Malić) (Malić) (Malić) (Palić) Dr Svetislav (Maršićanin), Kruško Borislav (Maršićanin), Kutić Bore (Pop-Lazić), Lazarevic Aleksandar (Maršić), Lakićić-Stojačić Snezana (ten), Lalić-Dravić Vesna (Maršić), Lalović Slobodan (Maršić), Ljemić Nenad (Maršić), Lučić Ljiljana (ten), Ljubenović Tomislav (Pop-Lazić), Ljubojević Dragan (Pop-Lazić), Ljušić Radoš (Maršić), Marjanski Lazar (Pop-Lazović), Marković (Pović) Mirović (Popić), Marković Momer (Pop-Lazić), Marković Predrag (Maršić), Marošanin), Marošan (Odisan), Marić (Odisan), Marić (Odović) (Odović) (Odović) (Odović). To be precise, how did Martic Miroslav vote? He's not present. ) The vote is over. We're going to count. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can give you the results of the vote. They look like this: 245 MPs voted out of it, for the candidate, Mr. Marsicanin, 128, Pop-Lazic 81, abstentioned 36, five were not present. I find that Mr Dragan Marsicanin has been elected president of the assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my role is done with this. I'm joining you, and my young associates will remain to assist the president in the course of the vote. Thank you for your cooperation. PRESIDENT ( Dragan Martian): Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to thank you for your election and to address you with just a few words before we agree on the further work of this constitutive session. Dear fellow Members of the People, we have all witnessed that the institutional crisis, the wrong policy and sometimes the brutal means have deepened gradually. The same way you can get out of that crisis, step by step. The first step was the election. Step two has been taken today, the National Assembly is being established. I hope a third step will follow soon with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, because of this fact, I want to assure you that my satisfaction with today's election will be as great as I remain in this function. Two things have been shown today: on the one hand that Serbia can solve problems, but who knows which times problems can be solved only if the general interests are placed above individual parties. There may be something else that will leave long-term consequences and change the political environment in Serbia in the long term, which is that the parties daily show their character, democratic, and daily their responsibility to the citizens, towards the state. Today, this seemed to show a relationship to the National Assembly, the highest institution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, at the same time, it has been shown that even the same old sins can be judged over and over again, nor can they always be celebrated for the old merits. The elections are the time when the line is drawn, when conclusions are drawn from the election will of citizens and when they enter into a new period of political life. That's what this session has shown in some way. Dear People's MPs, we really have a serious and big job ahead of us. If there is political will, which was lacking in the previous session, we will succeed in restoring to this assembly all the functions it should have, above all, the power to control the executive authority, the control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By amending the Rules of Procedure, we can arrange the work of this assembly in a way that ensures efficiency, but at the same time opens up a space for a sharp and, however harsh, but democratic and cultural political struggle, the democratic confrontation of opposing political views. Of course, it seems to me that at this point there is a majority for a clear decision, that congregation work should be public and with direct TV broadcasts. Of course, with legislative activity, and with these first deals that we will agree on immediately following this session, the first jobs are the selection of vice-presidents, the selection of other bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the selection of vice-presidents of the assembly, the selection of the Committee of the Assembly and the establishment of a Serbian delegation in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. In order to determine the dynamics that we will address and decide on, I am setting a break of an hour and I am asking the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups to meet in the first floor room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u39	Before we continue to work towards the agenda, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 24(4), they are in agreement. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, established by the following parliamentary groups: 1. Serbian Radical Party MP Tomislav Nikolic, for whom the president is appointed, and for his deputy, MP Aleksandar Vukic, 2. Parliamentary Group Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, whose president is appointed MP, Boris Tadic, and National MP Goran Svilanovic, 3. Parliament group G17 plus, for which the president is appointed MP Goran Paunovic and for his deputy MP, Ksenija Milivojevic, 4. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group - New Serbia, for which the president is appointed MP Vuk Draskovic, and for his deputy, MP Velimir Ilic, 5. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, for which the president is appointed, is MP Ivica Dacic, and for his deputy MP, Dr Zarko Obradovic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Before we move to the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that he is a member of 16. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the National Assembly had no more than five vice-presidents and that, at each constitution, the National Assembly established the number of vice-presidents by special decision, on a proposal from the President. I propose that the National Assembly determines that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting, but as it stands today in the Rules of Procedure until five, at this point we agree that the Assembly has five vice-presidents. The subsequent amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will open space and opportunity to elect the sixth vice president of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 17. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received five proposals from candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. You have been served with proposals from candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly. At the multiplication, he remained to be handed over to you, and a proposal for candidates to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly proposed by the SPS parliamentary group. As you have seen, for the vice presidents of the National Assembly, along with this note I have given you, the MPs have been proposed: Since, according to Article 18 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur, has the right to explain the proposal, asking if the rapporteurs want to explain candidates' proposals for vice-presidents of the National Assembly? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we count that this extension of the Assembly session begins to work in line with the voter's wish and results achieved. The election of the President of the Assembly has not been made that way, and I assume that from now on we will work in accordance with the will of the voters and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In this timetable, which provides for a maximum of five vice-presidents of the National Assembly, the SRS has the right to two vice-presidents and our candidates are Gordana Pop-Lazic and Stefan Zankov. We'd like to honor the arrangements we started today. We will surely respect them until someone dares to play them. We will also vote for vice-presidents who propose other parliamentary groups, we will vote for all members of the committee proposed by other parliamentary groups, as long as this constitution is as voters have defined by the number of MPs. So I'd like the president's choice to be the only exception, the only deviation from principle. I guess we have another choice of president waiting for us, because this is really unreal. I can even express my doubts about the regularity of the vote. I don't think I've heard anything good. But we offer you two candidates for vice presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think last time, in the last session, we unwarrantedly increased the number of vice presidents, but the wider the coalition, the more vice presidents of the National Assembly. This satisfies some of the ambitions of small parliamentary groups. The football club has 11 players. Who knows how long there'll be a vice president here? This demeans the function of vice president of the National Assembly, always keeping that in mind. But in order for the National Assembly to enter an emergency session as soon as possible, which we have already requested by letter to the National Assembly, we will vote for vice presidents today. I expect that the agreement is still respected that we will soon have a session where we will choose committees, and a session where we will change both the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. As far as we're concerned, a constitutional session could finish its work. I repeat, we've proposed two candidates. We are not affecting who suggested which candidate, we will also vote for candidates from other MPs. We gave the best, I guess that's how you'll define your candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in the G17 Group of MPs plus very sorry that the Democratic Party was not ready today to agree on its candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly. Of course we will at any moment when they are ready to vote for their candidate. All Serbian citizens should have their representatives in the National Assembly and this way. G17 plus, at this point, wants to propose with the greatest confidence Mr Predrag Markovic as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, believing that Mr Markovic, as a kind of an acquaintance of parliamentaryism and as a man who will be worthy of representing all the MPs, not only the G17 plus, is the right choice at the moment. Certainly, Mr. Predrag Markovic is a man who will be an extraordinary representative of the interests of all Serbian citizens in this place. In short, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deserves to have a vice-president such as Mr Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u43	Thank you, Mr. Paunović. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has agreed to a deal we just had with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Martian. We hope that this day will be the day that at least one institution in this country has started to operate, and this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, all political parties should have their own representatives based on the number of mandates they won in the previous extraordinary parliamentary elections. In this regard, the SPS also nominated Zoran Angelkovic, the party's secretary-general, as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also expect that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will bring a new Rules of Procedure, that there will be direct television transmissions and, of course, there will be no more theft of mandates and stealing votes when voting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is important that today, based on the agreement that we have reached, all the parliamentary groups, as agreed, vote for all the candidates for vice presidents, no matter who is from which political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u45	I thank Mr. Dacic. Mr. Tadic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u46	The Democratic Party today wanted all positions in parliament to be agreed, and the position of Parliament's president and vice-presidential position in parliament; this is what we wanted with the democratic bloc's parties. Since that didn't happen, we won't have a candidate for vice president of the assembly today, but at the same time I want to say that we will vote for all the candidates for vice presidents who are proposed by representatives of the list of other parties, because I think that's the elemental thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u47	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SP-New Serbia coalition, we propose Mr Vojislav Mihailovic as vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, because he was vice-president in two terms and because he showed his tolerance that this should be done. We, of course, join this atmosphere of tolerance and constructiveity and we will vote for all the candidates for vice presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-04-0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Before we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly, the National Assembly must determine the number of vice - presidents of the National Assembly to be elected today. My proposal is highlighted and you've heard it. I ask you to make this clear after we first determine the number of Members of the Parliament present in the room. Please make the count. I find 243 MPs present at the session, so there is a quorum for work and decision-making. I'm voting on a proposal for the National Assembly today to elect five vice presidents. Who's up for this proposal, please raise your hand. Everyone. Do you mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly. Allow me to, according to Article 18(5). Rules of Procedure, in the alphabetical order of the last name, I shall establish a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. According to proposals submitted, I am setting out the next list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Zoran Angelkovic, Stefan Zankov, Predrag Markovic, Vojislav Mihailovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. I remind you, according to Article 19. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, decide whether to vote in secret or in public, by giving a public vote to MPs for each candidate individually – by raising hands or by calling. That you'll allow me to suggest that we make the choice by raising our hands or by making other suggestions? Since there are no other proposals, I suggest we make it clear that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly should be carried out by public-rearing hands. Who's up for this proposal? Everyone. Do you mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I also find that this proposal has been adopted unanimously. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly should take place by public vote - by raising hands, I remind you that the public vote, according to Article 19(2). The Rules of Procedure shall make a statement to the Members of Parliament for each candidate individually. I also remind you that, according to Article 119. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by the raise of hands, are first stated by the MPs - who is behind the proposal, then who is against the proposal, and finally, who refrains from voting. The quorum's been determined. The number of people present was 243. We're going to choose the vice president of the National Assembly. For the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will vote in the order that the candidates for vice-presidents are set out on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion to elect MP Zoran Angelkovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is anyone restrained? One. I find that, with one abstention, this proposal has been accepted. I would like to put the motion to elect MP Stefan Zankov as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Everyone. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is anyone restrained? Nobody. ) I find that this proposal has been accepted unanimously. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Predrag Markovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is anyone restrained? One. I find that, with one abstention, this proposal has been accepted. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Vojislav Mihailovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is anyone restrained? One. I find that, with one abstention, this proposal has been accepted. I would like to vote on a proposal to elect the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? Most of it. Is anyone against it? Nobody. Is anyone restrained? One. I find that, with one abstention, this proposal has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to announce at the end of the vote the results of the vote, starting with the largest number of votes, and yet we must do so in alphabetical order, which are given to individual candidates. The majority of votes were received by MP Stefan Zankov - 243 votes, while other candidates -- Zoran Angelkovic, Predrag Markovic, Vojislav Mihailovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic -- received 242 votes each. Since all the proposed candidates received most of the votes of the national MPs present, I find that they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me congratulate them on their choices and ask them to take office as vice president. (The elected vice presidents take their seats at the table, next to the president of the National Assembly. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are near the end of this part of the constitutional session, so I would like to inform you orally of what I will, of course, and in writing - according to the Rules of Procedure, in my absence I will be replaced by Vice President Mr Markovic. On the basis of the agreement of the representatives, i.e. The president of the parliamentary groups, which we had at the break of this session, agreed that today at the afternoon and, if necessary and tomorrow, we would agree on a proposal from the parliamentary groups, so that the constitutional session of the National Assembly board could continue on Friday. I hope we get this job done successfully. I'm interrupting this session now. We'll pick her up Friday at 10.00 hours. I thank you for your successful work today. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the First Constitutional Session of the National Custody of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are enough MPs present. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to raise their hands, and the Service to do the count of the MPs. I find that there are 238 MPs present in the hall and that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Vuk Draskovic and Gašo Knezevic; (later) Slobodan Gojkov. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in agreement with Article 24. The Rules of Procedure, a constituent parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. National MP Dejan Mihajlov was appointed president of the parliamentary group, and Deputy MP Branislav Ristivojevic was appointed as his deputy. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - The selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to educate committees. The National Assembly has 29 permanent committees, and the number of members of those committees has been established by the Rules of Procedure. Members of the Committee shall propose a proportion of the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly (Articles 25, 41, 42 and 43). The Rules of Procedure), with the total number of members of the Committee on Economic Reforms, 12 representatives of the other Committees of the National Assembly are listed in Article 68a. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you have been presented with a proposal for a list of members of the Committee, drawn up on the basis of individual proposals from parliamentary groups, which are educated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before the search goes down, if there's a search, if you think the search is necessary, I remind you that by Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. At the consultations we had before the beginning of this session, we concluded that there was no need to open a search within this point. Is that how it stays? If so, I will inform you of the changes that were reported just before the beginning of the session and the differences that exist with the names of the board members in the proposal you received. Foreign Affairs Committee: As the sixth member of the SRS, Dragoljub Stamenkovic; instead of Milos Jevtic, Gordana Comic. The Committee for International Relations adds another member of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, and that is Esad Djudjevic. The Committee for Relations with Serbs outside Serbia: instead of Zarko Korac, Toplica Djordjevic. In the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs instead of Gordana Komic, Dragor Hiber, and instead of Aleksandr Vlahovic, Vladimir Jovanovic. In the Industry Committee instead of Aleksandr Vlahovic, Toplica Djordjevic. As I have already read, the Committee on Economic Reforms, you have received a list of more names than is available at this time, so I will read you the names that remain and will be selected today, and the others will be selected from the order of the 12 committees that will be established today. They remain, therefore, on the list Vitomir Milosevic, Dragan Zivkov, Dragan Todorovic, Radojko Obradović, Jovan Palalić, Slobodan Vukković, Istvan Takac, Milutin Jelicic-Jutka, Milomir Minić. Justice and Administration Committee: instead of Leila Ruždić – Trifunović, Slobodan Vukkovic. The poverty reduction committee, the changes, is just a mistake in the name, not Milos Jankovic, but Miroslav Jankovic. Please keep these changes in mind when deciding. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, according to Article 26. The Rules of Procedure, the proposed list for the selection of board members, shall be decided in general, by public vote, and that the committees have been elected if the majority of the members present have voted in favour of the list. Since there are still no conditions for public voting using the electronic system, according to Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote is held by the raise of hands. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft list for the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Who's in? Everyone. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously chosen committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received my proposal to appoint the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Marko Danilović. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In our consultations before this session, we also concluded that there is no need to open a search on this item of the agenda. Is there any change to this deal? No, there isn't. ) If there is no, and there is no, I would like to put the motion to be appointed as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Marko Danilovic. Who's in favour, please raise your hand. Everyone. Do you mind? No, there isn't. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this concludes the constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would add another sentence: we have done a very important job for Serbia. Before we part ways, I'd like to inform you what kind of agreement has been reached regarding the further work of the National Assembly. The deputy secretary reminded me, I didn't congratulate Mark Danilović. Congratulations on choosing the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's my fault, I'm sorry. So, let me just finish with further information on the progress and dynamics of the work of the National Assembly. It is agreed that Monday we have an extraordinary session, which will discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the work concerning the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, as well as amendments to the Law on the Selection of Delegations for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. After that, according to the deadlines provided for by this law, for which there is a consensus among the political parties represented in parliament, an extraordinary session will be scheduled for Thursday, which will elect the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if any, as well as a delegation of the Republika Srpska Assembly to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. After the break, at the very end of the session, a session of the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee will be held, with a view to identifying new mandates for the new MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia following a decision to elect a delegation for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. That's what next week's gonna be. You've been notified today, and I ask you to send only this information about the time of scheduled constitutional sessions of the National Assembly Committee. The Constitutional Affairs Committee will be held at 13.00 hours on the second floor. The board of directors at 1400 hours on the second floor. The Justice and Administration Committee at 1:00 p.m. on the third floor. Defence and Security Committee at 1400 hours on the third floor. Legislative committee at 13.00 hours on the ground floor. The Committee on European Integration at 1400 hours on the ground floor. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs at 13.00 hours on the fourth floor. Privatisation committee at 13.30 p.m. on the fourth floor. The Committee on Urbanism and Construction at 1400 hours on the fourth floor. The Finance Committee at 2.30 p.m. on the second floor. Trade and Tourism Committee at 2.30 p.m. on the third floor. The Health and Family Committee at 2.30 p.m. on the fourth floor. Industry Committee at 1400 hours on the fifth floor. The playoffs and proposals committee at 15.00 hours on the fifth floor. The Traffic and Communications Committee, I read to you now for Monday, but we'll see about that for holding a session; so, for Monday, the other committees will get you a schedule. I ask that these 14 committees be established today that I have read. The work continues on Monday. You'll get calls. So Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
