ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 193 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We are not informed that the Messengers will be absent. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the Proposal for a Resolution on the accession of the European Union as soon as possible, as well as other acts in the proposed agenda of the sitting. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The Law on the Election of a People's MP finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Vesna Obradovic, elected from the election list G17 plus – Miroljub Labus. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The Law on the Election of the People's MP, the National Assembly, finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Vesna Obradovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. You have received the resignation of Professor Ljiljana Colic as Minister of Education and Sports in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 202(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the resignation was notified to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, Article 202 is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly envisioned that the National Assembly, at the first next session, concluded, without a search, that a member of the Government had resigned and had not decided on it. According to Article 202(4). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Colic resigned as minister of education and sports in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 24 August 2004 and the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 24, 25 and 26 August 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 24 August 2004. For 144, he did not vote 71, out of the 215 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 24 August 2004. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 24, 25 and 26 August 2004. For 140, it did not vote 75 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 24, 25 and 26 August 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. A group of six MPs proposed that the draft resolution on accession to the European Union, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote 85 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Paunovic, president of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 September 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 90 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS MPs proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 July 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 76, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS MPs proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 July 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 76, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs, he suggested that the draft law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 121, he did not vote 101, of the 224 MPs. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 135, it did not vote 90 out of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a resolution on the accession of the European Union, which was submitted by a group of six MPs; 2. Proposals for a decision to apply immunity to MPs, submitted by the Administrative Committee on 11 May, 15 July, 18 August and 29 September 2004; 3. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Goran Paunovic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. As proposals for the examination of acts under emergency procedure have been accepted, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a RESOLUATION ON THE ASSOCIATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION on the basis of Article 38. We would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group on item 1 of the agenda will be the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. On the basis of Article 38. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the DSS parliamentary group on item 1 of the agenda will represent MP Dusan Prorokovic. Also, according to the same points, Milos Jevtic was authorised for the DS parliamentary group. That's those three powers. Proposal for a resolution on joining the European Union. You received a motion for a resolution on joining the European Union, submitted by MPs Ksenija Milivojevic, Gordana Komic, Susana Grubjesic, Djordje Mamula, Miodrag Stamenković and Vojkan Tomic. You have received amendments submitted jointly by MPs Ivica Dacic and Dr Zarko Obradovic. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the search will be given to you during the session. You have received a report from the Committee on European Integration. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS - one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, DSS - one hour, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes 12 seconds, SPO-NS - 26 minutes 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs and three NDS MPs, five minutes each, and on the basis of Article 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. Does the proposing representative, MP Ksenija Milivojevic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have before you a motion for a resolution on the accession of the European Union, as the first strategic document of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose main aim is to demonstrate a clear and unequivocal commitment of the Republic of Serbia, as members of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, towards full membership in the European Union, as well as a clear and unequivocal commitment to meeting all those obligations towards ourselves, and then to the European Union, in order to make this full membership as soon as possible a reality in Serbia. This is, above all, one strategic document, and on the other hand, a document that should show that towards our citizens and all those involved in the process of European integration and towards the European Union, joining the European Union for Serbia is a strategic and national goal. However, to do so takes time and great work. Members of this resolution, namely six MPs from different political parties, or different parliamentary groups, and also members of the Committee on European Integration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have come first and foremost in drawing up this resolution from what the facts are crucial in the process of joining the European Union itself, which are the processes of which it is necessary in Serbia itself, so that we can achieve the ultimate goal at one point, which is full membership in the European Union. In this process, we co-operated with NGOs, and above all with the European Movement in Serbia, which by nature is primarily directed towards European integration, as well as the Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to join the European Union, which will be the basic operational body that will implement the provisions of this resolution if it is voted in the Assembly. The resolution itself sets out not only those objectives that Serbia is seeking, but also the obligations it must meet in the first phase, so that it can qualify for membership. In that sense, we consider it a first step. The fact is that we are one of the few countries that does not have such a resolution on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact is that the countries that entered the European Union on 1 May this year in the process of European integration brought several similar documents, depending on the stage in which European integration was in the process. This resolution not only establishes the obligation of all state institutions to treat the issue of European integration as the highest state priority, but it establishes very concrete obligations for the executive government and, above all, the government of the Republic of Serbia. It obliges to build a national accession strategy for the European Union as soon as possible and, secondly, obliges the Assembly to notify and report on what has been done on the European integration plan in Serbia every three months. Also, this resolution obliges all of us as MPs of the National Assembly, as well as other institutions, to continue to work not to form and create a functional state, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so that it can qualify for membership in the European Union. The resolution also implies membership in the Partnership for Peace, also as a strategic and national goal of the Republic of Serbia as part of its membership in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because it is a process, which not only belongs to all countries of Europe but also to Bosnia and Serbia, but it is also an irrevocable process of reforming military forces, i.e. military reform which is also one of the preconditions for EU membership. It is a process in which Serbia-Montenegro is already in place and it is a process that is irreversible in terms of a long-term process, which includes EU membership. Finally, the resolution also advocates meeting all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and strongly supports the view that all persons suspected of crimes committed during the 1991-2000 armed conflicts in the area of former SFRY bring justice in line with positive legal regulations and international obligations. If we want to be a serious state and if we feel that we can be seen as such in the world, then we must respect not only our international obligations, but also those obligations under the laws that we ourselves have adopted and in this sense this Resolution is also being declared. In point 9. Resolutions call on all political parties, NGOs, trade unions, employers' associations, religious communities, media and all citizens of Serbia to join the objectives of this resolution, as these are all entities that are in the process of European integration in one way or another and in accordance with their obligations, rights and competences. We cannot expect to enter Europe, or we will become full members of the European Union unless that is the goal around which we are all united. We cannot be declarative to the EU, and we do not want to meet some of the basic preconditions that membership implies. We cannot perform unequivocally in front of the EU itself, because this damages our own position both in the EU and in the international community and in all those organisations whose member we are. The main intention of the motion for this resolution is to form the widest possible social, political and national consensus on the EU accession goal. Only a single state, i.e. only a single institution and only a single attitude towards the international community, and towards the EU itself can successfully lead us to this membership. Only a policy of consensus on strategic issues, precisely the process of European integration, can result in full membership in the EU, and therefore it is my personal and satisfaction to the members of the Committee on European Integration, which has resulted in the text of this resolution as a result of consensus and the consensus of all those forces that advocate full membership in the EU. We expect that the adoption of this resolution will be the first step towards creating this consensus and that Serbia will perform uniquely in the next period when it comes to the process of European integration. Regardless of some political differences, which, normally, exist between political parties. We also expect that this resolution will be respected in the full text and that its objectives will indeed be joined by all those entities to which European integration applies, and they relate to every citizen of this country, because every citizen of this country will tomorrow feel all of the benefits and opportunities of developing the country and its progress that full EU membership brings. The EU has no alternative. We have two choices, or two alternatives. We can go towards full EU membership and thus become part of the modern world, i.e. become part of Europe which we have naturally and geographically already are and in Serbia is a European tradition that has existed for decades. On the other hand, we can decide that we do not want to join the European Union, and in this case we are putting ourselves in a position of isolation in Europe, that is, in a country that is not able to co-operate with Europe and which is fully, although it is in the heart of Europe, from all its flows and paths. We cannot allow ourselves to be unaware of those obligations that we must fulfil in order to achieve full membership. It is the only way we can expect that our path will end with full membership in the European Union and that is the only way we can become part of the European family. Therefore, on behalf of the motions of this resolution, I call on all MPs of the National Assembly to vote in favour of this resolution and thus, in a clear and unequivocal manner, to show their not only declarative but also essential commitment to European integration, to all the procedures, measures and activities that this process implies, to help our country and Serbia-Montenegro become a member of the EU as soon as possible, where it is a natural, historical and essential place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6748	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go. Mr. Dacic. Mr. Minicu, I apologize, we've all received a report from the Committee that this was adopted unanimously. I don't understand what we're talking about. Were you at that board meeting? Be kind, answer the Rules of Procedure, I really don't understand. To make it clear to all, the Committee on European Integration discussed the proposal for a resolution on joining the Ervopi Union at a session held on 30 September 2004. The session was also attended by Vladimir Todorovic of the Office for Joining the European Union of the Serbian Government and Ivan Knezevic of the European Movement in Serbia. On the basis of Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on European Integration submits the following report to the National Assembly: The Committee unanimously adopted a motion for a resolution on joining the European Union. I'm sorry, if you weren't on the board, I don't understand how you could have singled out your opinion at a previous meeting that didn't discuss it. Be nice, read the documents we're getting. I'm sorry personally, but I really don't have the basis to give you my word right now. You'll get a chance later. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6749	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the motion for a resolution we are discussing today is about a topic which I think is the absolute agreement of political parties in Serbia. I don't think there is a party in Serbia that is against entering and joining the European Union. The problem is that you are putting us in a position to measure our relationship with the European Union with the proposal for this resolution. That is why we wanted and proposed it, and we have written it in amendments, certain versions of the text of this resolution that would be acceptable to all political parties in Serbia. That, unfortunately, is not accepted. So I think that the message that will be sent today from the Serbian Parliament is not good for Serbia, and that is a message that Serbia is not unique about whether or not we want to join the European Union. What is the problem in the text of this resolution? The problem is that through joining the European Union here, there is something that is not at all the subject of this resolution. This is a resolution on joining the European Union. Keep it that way or change the title so that it can be an accession to the European Union and to the Partnership for Peace. What does the Partnership for Peace have to do with European integration and the European Union? The position of the 1st resolution states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms that the accelerated entry of the Republic of Serbia as members of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro into full membership in the European Union and accession to the Partnership for Peace is a strategic and national goal which will give full and permanent support to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in future work." Today is not the topic of us saying whether or not we are in favour of or against entering the Partnership for Peace. The Partnership for Peace is not a European Union programme. The Partnership for Peace is a NATO programme. Then you better make it clear that the strategic goal is to join NATO, so let's make that clear. Partnership for Peace is a NATO Pact programme and do not make us plead whether we are in favour or against this programme. Let us plead at the referendum, as we have suggested, whether we are to join NATO. Not even those institutions, such as NATO, are the problem. The problem is what are the conditions so that we can be members of NATO, and what does Serbia need to meet to be a member? It's giving up war damage and delivering to The Hague all of our citizens on the list. You know it's unacceptable for the SPS. That is why we have proposed multiple times and we have proposed that, as an amendment, part of the sentence "and accession to the Partnership for Peace" be deleted from the text of the resolution, because this is a resolution on joining the European Union, not the Partnership for Peace and NATO. Unless it's an interest to reach consensus. If the interest remains so that Serbia is divided, Serbia is split with an ax to a part that is allegedly democratic and to a part that is reportedly undemocratic, that is, part that is allegedly for European integration and part that is allegedly against European integration. Don't rip Serbia anymore. That's what Boris Tadic was doing with what he did yesterday. It is not good for Serbia that three of the most important state institutions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia have different views on vital national and state interests. Here in the Assembly, we unanimously adopted a plan for a political solution to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. We unanimously agreed as head of political parties that we would invite Serbs to go to elections only if the international community accepts the basis and essence of the plan. Boris Tadic, as president of Serbia yesterday, urges Serbs to go to the Kosovo and Metohija elections, which is politically harmful, and would remind me that the Democratic Party, whose President Boris Tadic, has boycotted the elections in Serbia twice in 1992 and 1997. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time there were greater reasons for the boycott of the elections in Serbia than today are the reasons for Serbs boycotting the elections in Kosovo and Metohija? Is the boycott of the election also a democratic way for the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? That's what Serbia is sharing. This motion for a resolution is causing Serbia to split into blocks that do not exist. There is no difference on the accession of the European Union. Don't make us not vote for something that's undeniable. The SPS is for accession to the European Union. What is written by the promoter – the reasons for considering an emergency procedure – absolutely does not stand. I know that no one here reads the explanation and reads the reasons for considering the emergency procedure, so I would remind you of what it says in the reasons. Proponents believe that delaying the adoption of the resolution would be an obstacle to the accelerated integration of Serbia-Montenegro into the European Union. How would that be a brake if we didn't adopt this resolution? Let's not be political on the completely wrong guidebook. It explains here that in 2000 we were further away from the European Union than in 1990. Where are we in 2004 and what have you been doing for four years? Ladies and gentlemen, your European integration in Serbia was led by Cedomir Jovanovic as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration. Are we one step closer to European integration than in 1990 when it was a communist one-party state? I don't think what's written as an explanation absolutely stands a reason for an emergency procedure. This should have been a political consensus, not a proposal of this kind for MPs. Our second amendment refers to a part expressing the full readiness of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to fulfil all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. We're here to suggest a point bet. Serbia's readiness to meet all international obligations. A sentence that reads -- and strongly supports the view that all persons suspected of crimes committed during the 1991-2000 armed conflict in the territory of the former SFRY are brought to justice in accordance with positive legal regulations and international obligations. Was it not easier to put a point in the first part of the sentence and not share Serbia again because of this issue regarding the European Union? Our positive legal regulations say that the extradition of our citizens to The Hague tribunal is prohibited. Our positive legal regulations, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, speak clearly about this. Accepting such an attitude in the resolution tomorrow may be an alibi for the extradition of our citizens to The Hague tribunal. Once again, in the end, I really don't think it's our problem to resolve. Our problem is whether we are really going to discuss what is controversial in our relations with the European Union. What else is controversial besides The Hague? That's what you won't talk about. It is a dispute that, at the time of Sabela's action, we had the arrest of 12,000 people without the court's decision. You have a report from the Commission to monitor the implementation of an international anti-torture and torture contract that is disastrous for Serbia at the moment. You have a problem with economic relations between Serbia and Montenegro. That's what you're not talking about. The problem is both Kosovo and Metohija. We should push for Serbia-Montenegro to join the European Union, not Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro. As you know, the European Union has launched a parallel process for Kosovo's accession. I am speaking to you as the chairman of the main SPS board and the president of this parliamentary club that the SPS once again expresses its readiness. We will vote in favour of every draft law harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation. That's why we can't get to the European Union fast. Why don't you suggest that kind of harmonisation? Why didn't the previous government do it, she passed the government and this current government?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6750	Excuse me, Mr. Dacic, will you use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6751	No, I'm done. Thank you. The motion for a resolution causes division among MPs and does not reflect Serbia's unity and consensus in Serbia. That is why the SPS MPs, unless our amendments, which we have pointed to for a long time, cannot vote for this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6752	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives, want a word? Here you go, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6753	As I have already said in the opening statement, the motions for a resolution have just come from the necessity to reach the broadest consensus in Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro on the issue of European integration, as Serbia is a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. On the other hand, however, we also performed according to the facts. There are certain facts relating to the process of European integration, i.e. certain criteria that every country, which wants to become a member of the European Union, must meet. There they are, on the one hand, so-called. political criteria, which relate to each country in particular, and certain technical and operational criteria, which primarily concern harmonisation, i.e. harmonisation of regulations. Otherwise, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at point 4 of the resolution, undertakes that the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the European Union will be given priority in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, including the introduction of specific procedures to improve the efficiency of the process. Procedures in accordance with the business provisions, of course, can be different. When it comes to the Partnership for Peace, it is, as I said in my first address, a irreversible process, which does not necessarily have to lead NATO membership. It is something to talk about when there is even a possible perspective for Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, to become a NATO member. I would like to repeat once again that in Europe only Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia-Montenegro, are not members of the Partnership for Peace. In addition, in the Partnership for Peace, Russia and Belarus, as well as most of the former Soviet republics in the Asian part, which, according to the information we have, are certainly not predominant to NATO membership at the moment, but are aware of the need to reform the military forces, or modernising them, can be achieved as easily and as quickly as possible through this process. In this regard, we believe, given that military reform, or military forces, is one of the conditions for accession to the European Union, that the most logical way to meet this condition towards the European Union is by just joining the Partnership for Peace, which, I repeat, does not necessarily mean a direct application for NATO membership. It's something our country will come to terms with when the time comes. When it comes to obligations, and that also concerns obligations to the UN tribunal, it is about obligations that we have above all as a member of the United Nations. We also have them according to positive regulations. In particular, I am referring to the Law on Co-operation with the 2001 Hague Tribunal, which was then brought on a federal level, then still the SRJ, and these are obligations, whether we like it or not, which are a condition for speeding up the process of European integration, i.e. in our case, obligations, i.e. meeting the obligations that are a condition for obtaining membership candidate status. We do not want to share Serbia, but we are also aware that, whether we like it or not, we also need to fulfil some obligations that are painful, or obligations that can lead to different divisions in society in Serbia. However, if we really want to join the European Union, i.e. become a full member of it, we must fulfil these obligations, and of course we must make sure that our negotiating position, when negotiating the way and the modality of meeting these obligations, is as good as possible, because it is our national interest. We're not a country that wants to fulfil its obligations at all costs. Of course not. We are very aware of the national interest and what we must do is provide our country with the best possible position in the talks and negotiations on how to fulfil these obligations. On the other hand, we must try to facilitate ourselves and speed up accession to the European Union by participating in those processes that speed up this membership. One such process is the Partnership for Peace. If Russia and Belarus, as countries that do not claim NATO membership, entered the process to facilitate the reform of their armed forces, why would Serbia go the hard way? Therefore, when we talk about consensus, we need to talk about that consensus that is real and that really leads to membership in the European Union. The Declarationative Consensus that says that we want to be members but we do not want to participate in the processes and fulfil the obligations that this membership implies is not a real consensus. He's not leading to the European Union. Only that consensus based on the facts and reality of us in the European Union indeed within the shortest possible time and water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6754	Here you go, replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6755	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6756	I'm sorry. Here you go. By the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6757	I've reported to the Rules of Procedure since it's obvious that my words are misread. Mrs Milivojevic or Miss Milivojevic confirmed what she said once again that it was not a coincidence that the story of the Partnership for Peace was not a coincidence. I wasn't talking about whether we're for or not, but what's the theme of today's session. Is the topic of today's session of the European Union, or the Partnership for Peace? If it's a Partnership for Peace, then change the name of this document. It's not the same. Do not, as in the Strategy for the Defence of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, talk about the defence strategy, and the first sentence in the opening part says – starting with the national interest to be a NATO member. Who has established this national state interest? We need to determine him first and then we need to get out of it. That's why he's sharing this with Serbia. What does not divide Serbia is joining the European Union, along with all the obligations that this accession brings, and we have proposed that we put an end to it, without further complexity of the whole situation. Our obligations towards the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, are not only about obligations to The Hague tribunal, but also about human rights and freedoms, to examine the abuses that were at the time of the "Sabbe", torture and torture against people, to prevent smuggling at our borders, to prevent corruption and crime. At the time of your government, during four years - from 5 October to today - why did you fail to fulfil your obligations to The Hague tribunal? Carla del Ponte has found that they are at the lowest level in the past few years. If you already feel you need to meet those obligations, fulfill them. Don't complain to anyone. You're in power. Why don't you hand these generals over to the UN tribunal? You won't because most Serbian citizens don't want it. Then don't write anything you won't. The problem is that it is constantly seeking to divide in Serbia allegedly into a European and democratic bloc. Those who call themselves Democrats are just by name. You're talking about obligations to the United Nations. There is a man present who attended the raise of the SRJ flag in the last part of 2000, after October 5th, as new members of the United Nations. You have defined that we are the new member who was admitted at the end of 2000. What are you talking about, then? We need to fulfil our obligations and anyone who has committed war crimes should answer. Let's not just talk about extraditions. No one forbids to stand trial before domestic courts, no one forbids to seek the same status as Croatia and BiH, which can judge their citizens in their country. It's the easiest thing to have one-way cooperation, but then it's not co-operation. It's the easiest thing to have a consensus, but it seems to me that you here want a consensus with the European Union. Let's first reach a consensus within our people and within our country, and then we'll easily reach a consensus with everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6758	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Dusan Prorokovic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6759	Dear MPs, despite several clumsy formulations, which are evident in this resolution, the DSS will support the proposal for a resolution on joining the European Union. First, this stems from Article 3. Serbia-Montenegro constitutional charters and is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, Serbia thus clearly and unequivocally shows and confirms its commitment. It is also encouraging for me that some parties, who have declared that they will not support the resolution because of its text, are in favour of harmonising legislation and meeting certain standards. Resolutions have been made three or four times in some parliaments in the coastal republics. There will be a lot more talk about this, and what will come to the agenda and how reforms will take place, in which segment, so we will probably change this existing resolution in some future period. However, when we talk about building a policy of the Republic of Serbia in the area of integration and entry into the European Union, not related to the resolution, we need to approach cold heads in this business. We must neither be Europhobic nor Euroeuphoric. We must not be Europhobic, because where Europhobia, fear of the European Union, has created major problems since these countries entered the European Union. Where there are Euro-EU politicians, representatives of the NGO sector and various analysts, who see the European Union as a chance that the state escapes its identity, escapes itself, there is a case that can be described in one sentence – that the European Union has fallen into a trap of its own attraction – also a danger to the people and the state in European integration. I am saying this because we must look from two perspectives, at the perspective of our strategic goals and at the perspective of our national objectives. Strategic and national objectives must not be identified. Countries that identified strategic and national interests went badly in the integration process. Our strategic goal is the European Union and we all agree here. Is our national goal in every segment entering the European Union? I don't think so. I'll prove it on the case of the production of one agricultural product, raspberries. The European market currently absorbs 140,000 to 150,000 raspberries. Serbia is the world's largest raspberries producer, which produces 60,000 to 80,000 tonnes of raspberries. The countries of the former eastern bloc, Poland and Hungary, by entering the European Union, have restructured their agriculture under European quotas, so they have been unable to produce excess agricultural products that they once grown, so as to reorient their agriculture to the production of raspberries. Today, Poland produces 45,000 tonnes, Hungary 15,000 to 20,000 tonnes. At the time of Serbia's admission to the European Union, when the raspberries are likely to be quotad, or the upper norms for its production within the European borders will be defined, Poland should produce 70,000 tonnes and Hungary 50,000 tonnes. They, as old members of the European Union, are likely to lobby against Serbia at that time, which is their legitimate right. Serbia will seek to reduce its production. Our national interest is not to halve our raspberries production but to employ all our capacities. So at this point, the state has to think about what to do with how to restructure the entire economy, what our comparative advantages on the European market are. There is no state that has managed to preserve its market through liberalisation. In defining both strategic and national objectives, we must first define what European standards are immediately applicable to our legislation, then slowly implement and apply something called European communal law in our system of legislation and in the same social and political framework as we want it to be in Serbia. Again, European communal law flows from the so-called common fluids, from aquicommuner. Why am I saying this? Because the aquicommuner is currently written on about 80,000 pages. This number of sides of the European Union's joint flows will grow more and more over a future period. Serbia hasn't translated everything yet. There is no uniform terminology adopted in Serbia as directives, provisions, regulations, guidelines, recommendations from the European Union. Even in the text of the resolution, the title of "The Thessaloniki Agenda" appears. What does the word "agenda" mean in our terminology, the terminology of European integration? I understand the agenda as some activity schedule, because at the Thessaloniki Summit, however, some activity schedule for the Western Balkans has been adopted, but the agenda, according to Vujaklia, has several more synonyms. This just creates confusion, and I'm afraid it's moving us away from the European Union, causing a variety of controversy. I will remind you that this process has been done in Slovenia since 1993 by the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Prof. Dr. Mancinger, who has been unifying and standardizing the language of reform worked for a year and a half. He was criticised by the opposition at the time, by the Slovenian authorities yesterday, much for it. They said it was a waste of time, but believe me, sometimes at the beginning of time it has to be lost in order to gain much later, during the integration process, a lot. Also, what represents a brake for European integration is our administration. The third Copenhagen criterion speaks of the necessity of education of the administration that can absorb all legal norms of European standards that come from Brussels. Unfortunately, by 2000, no thought was given. To this day, it's done part-time, from the ministry to the ministry. You don't see this job as an integral. I think about the administration, not me, but someone else's analysis, in whose data I believe, is a light mile even behind Macedonia. About the Republic of Croatia and how far in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia these processes have strayed, not to mention. What is most important for European integration is the continuity of work. Unfortunately, we now have the continuity of confusion. That is why I think the best way to go towards European integration is to reach consensus among all political entities in as many segments as possible, a consensus in another future period on our timetable – what we will do in 2006, 2008 in 2010. Whoever in Serbia is in power, integration policy must not change. For this process we need not only political parties but intergovernmental organisations, professional associations, that is, a lot of individuals who have to make their contribution to form something called social and political consensus, in as many points as possible. He is reluctant to contribute that we have confusion in the politics of European integration in Serbia, but I cannot say that different international factors have increased, heated, sometimes initiated. Yesterday's adoption of a declaration lobbyed by lawmakers from Hungary and Albania, which concerns the threat of national minorities' rights in Serbia-Montenegro's space, or Serbia, is just an example. The EU summit in Thessaloniki has made it clear that inter-regional co-operation must be strengthened, bilateral relations between countries in the environment must be strengthened and something called the KARC programme has been functioning since earlier. Serbia has offered all its neighbours, how familiar I am with both 2001 and 2004 full co-operation in this regard. We now have something that united FIDES and SDP in Hungary, which is a declaration against Serbia. This is not how good neighborly relations are strengthened. This is not how good neighbourly co-operation is made, but rather how it behaves, radicalises public opinion in both Hungary and Belgrade, which is not good. I'll take another example -- elections in Kosovo and Metohija. No European standards are met. Citizens are being pressured to make such choices. The election is either free or gone. Free elections are not choices. If Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, according to Resolution 1244, and if some European standards apply to Serbia, so do Kosovo and Metohija. I think these European standards must also be applied in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, instead of people in polling stations being provided with kalashnikovs, or MPs to the Assembly building... (President: Excuse me, are you using the next 10 minutes? )......................................................................................................... or MPs to the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly building are brought to the blinded tanks. These European standards and criteria do not exist, so they cannot be in Pristina either. The DSS calls on all political partners in the Serbian Parliament, both from the government and from the opposition's ranks, to participate actively in creating our path to the EU and our European integration policies. We are open to co-operation with everyone and we invite you to reach as many points as possible, as quickly as possible, to reach consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6760	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, then the promoter. Since there are some votes, it is not necessary to use that watch according to the Rules of Procedure, we were late at the beginning, I think it is best to give Mrs. Pop-Lazic a break, but she has her 20 minutes to decide how to use them, and then we'll give her a break. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6761	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, according to some general knowledge of what the resolution is, when someone submits a motion for a resolution I suppose the fact that there is at least consensus, the will of the majority in parliament or at least that the motion for a resolution was offered to all parliamentary groups, so that the desire of the one who is the initiator to create a consensus and that some document that would really mean something to the state, behind which would be one parliamentary majority who would represent the will of most voters in Serbia. Mr. Prorokovic called on the MPs to vote in favour of the resolution, as if it represented the government's position or as if his entire parliamentary group were standing in the signature of this resolution. And we have a motion for a resolution submitted by Ksenija Milivojevic, MP Gordana Komic, Susana Grubjesic, Djorđa Mamula, Miodrag Stamenkovic, Vojkan Tomic. It is not for every MP to submit, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, a motion for resolution, legislation, but for the public to know who handed over this resolution and who raised the issue – the EU Accession Resolution. As far as I know, following a political scene in Serbia, I do not know that there is a political party represented in parliament, which is not for European integration. So, who in the world doesn't understand that we are for European integration, so now we have to sign a text like this or publish it in the Official Messenger so that someone in the world can find out? Here we need to ask a reverse question - is someone calling us into these European integrations? If he calls us, under what conditions does he call us and can we meet these conditions? This text is a political pamphlet. This does not meet the minimum criteria of a serious resolution behind which the state should stand. The government has not given its opinion on this resolution. At least we didn't get an opinion, and it should have, given the importance of the subject. So, very unseriously prepared, even, I'm convinced, is not prepared here, is not in that parent board for European integration. This came from abroad. Why? I'll explain now. This text and the coincidence that this is on the agenda today is a synchronised move by one who draws the political ends in Serbia with a statement issued by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic at 20.05 pm yesterday. This resolution, look a little bit better for you who plead that you want to vote for this resolution, should cover what Boris Tadic said yesterday, and I am convinced that here at least two-thirds of the MPs, if not more, condemns that statement by Boris Tadic. In resolution, item 2, where it says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses its full readiness to meet all the necessary preconditions needed to speed up integration into the European Union, it is understood that Boris Tadic, yesterday, counter-constitutionally gave himself the right to invite Serbs to go to the elections in Kosovo. If there's no freedom, there's no free choice. Secondly, nowhere in the Constitution does it say that he can do it and not on our behalf. If he has consulted someone, and says he has consulted some political factors, please let us hear about the political factors other than Cedomir Jovanovic, Chris Patten, Javier Solana and Carla del Ponte? In their name, let him say he calls on Serbs in Kosovo to go to the polls. He can't say that on our behalf. As a result, the SRS has today submitted a proposal to initiate the procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic. You know very well what is needed for this proposal – 84 signatures by the MPs, that the proposal is found in the procedure in the National Assembly, that the debate is ongoing and that after the debate two-thirds of the MPs are made known about the proposal, and then the people in the referendum say theirs – whether they want a president like this to protect the interests of Serbia and the Serb people, as Boris Tadic promised and today does not. This disappointment is not only mine and the SRS, we were able to assume what Boris Tadic would do after he became president, forget all his pre-election promises and fly straight to America, so come back, so he writes a letter to Bush and humiliates the Serbian people, so he comes out in an election campaign in front of local elections, so he divides the people into such and such. What Boris Tadic says in one text about what the Serbian people are -- Vojvodina is our bridge to Europe, and if the Democratic Party of Serbia makes any political agreement, co-operation or pact with the SRS, then there is no possibility of a co-habitation between the president of Serbia and the prime minister of the republic. Is this what Europe is asking of us on the political scene? Is the President of the Republic allowed to threaten a political party here to co-operate with another political party? What kind of cohabitation is that? This is politics, the resolution itself, but this is also the attitude of the current President of the Republic, which must therefore have adequate consequences. What else does he say? "I will put all energy into this agreement, but not with those who are working on the head of Serbia and Vojvodina and all our cities. Serbia must be managed by honest and normal people in order for the world to understand the message that we do not get an anachron rule again in Vojvodina and Novi Sad. It would be a disaster that cannot happen to us," Tadic warned. Mr. Tadic, the SRS has won the highest voter confidence in Vojvodina and you can take a picture with this statement. It didn't do you any good. In Serbia, political ends could have dragged some aside by now. You see, after four years, the Serbian people realized absolutely by the experience they had that they couldn't rely on those who didn't want him well. The Serbian people want to turn to themselves and their interests. So we want to join European integration. How? By first, they will have to respect Resolution 1244, which they brought themselves, and to provide us with the return of thousands of soldiers and police officers to Kosovo and Metohija. They will have to give us back the Republic of Serbia's Krajina and the Serbian people there to decide who to live with. It's by those rules that apply everywhere in the world. They'll have to provide us with a division of BiH 51:49. Then we can enter Europe, because at that moment all criteria, all norms of international and historical law will be respected, and then we will show that we are a state and a people who know what they want and what they seek. What we lack is self-respect. When we have no self-respect, no one in the world respects us. Do you see what they're doing to us? They come, deliver only orders and then those who are in the proper state functions – deserved, undeserved, some unfortunate circumstances – see that all conditions meet; even they say they do not want to make historic moves at this time, but moves from today to tomorrow. That politician and that power that doesn't have a vision that doesn't make historical moves can only be wrong. From today to tomorrow, politics isn't run...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6762	Are you using...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6763	I'm using 20 minutes, I'm going to have a little bit of that. Those political parties that ran politics from today to tomorrow failed on Serbia's political scene. They've been experiencing or having a breakdown. Here, DS lost 90 municipalities in Serbia. The DSS, too, is failing and allows itself to fail. The councils they received from the SRS, their political opponents, not to save them on the political scene, but to manage to preserve and maintain the state interest, to achieve the state interest, they did not want to listen. Now they have a chance at the local level. Let them do what they want. Time is running tirelessly, and Serbian citizens will know how to assess what they should and how to do. I want to take you back to history. I have to get you back into history, because we're getting some EU manuals that they've shared with us from the National Assembly, more specifically a manual written by political science students. Since I think I'm a little bit more competent on this matter, here's a short education and a return to history, on my part. One sentence that stands in the light of this resolution says that due to ten years of isolation and internal collapse, Serbia not only did not come closer to the European Union, but was further away from it in 2000 than it was in 1990. Gentlemen, Mastricht was 1993. You who wrote this resolution in 1990, there were only 15 people in Europe, and it is true that in 1990 we were really able to enter that European Union. Today, this impoverished, with such a political image and a politically unstable state, with such representatives of the government, with such legal uncertainty, we cannot enter the European Union, although we bring a hundred of these resolutions. All of us to sign off, all eight million, all of us, and those with the right to vote and those without the right to vote, every child born to sign it in his name, nothing helps us. We haven't done anything this year to get our country to record some gross product growth, to start doing something. You dealt with yourself and the election. You did it on purpose because you have a job like this. I don't believe there are people in this country who don't know their jobs. They know him, but they can't use their knowledge because they have to do what they're told to do, to destroy the state further, especially the economy. It's all about the economy. Because we are so economically ruined, we mean nothing to Europe. I reiterate that the SRS has always been for European integration, but such conditions related to The Hague and to the procedure for attending elections in Kosovo and Metohija, we cannot accept. Under such conditions, we wouldn't land on Mars, even if it meant I don't know what, even if it brought us nothing. Just to remind you that in The Hague, the trial of five Serbs is in progress, that in the pre-determined phase of 17 of them, there is a demand for the extradition of twenty more and Perisic, and what Carla del Ponte said when she was recently back in Belgrade. She says there is no release of blame for the Serbs, and for the Croats there is. So far, 35 have been convicted, nine have died under such circumstances, some have been arrested, some in The Hague, some have settled, some are traitors. Since we are part of modern history, we must admit that modern history has not experienced as much paradox in the political and legal sense as it has experienced in the last two decades. During that period, the universal values that Europe is declaring, which characterized mankind's political history, became a mockery of the current worship of democracy and modern humanism, where, without any remorse or political wisdom, the collective punishment produced by genocide has become one of the instruments of the Security Council. This is done through the adoption of a resolution on unfair sanctions against certain countries, which abuses the United Nations Charter. Aggression has become an instrument of pious humanitarian intervention, and a civil war that, as confirmed through history, has largely been the manipulation of the world's most influential force to clear up accounts around its sphere of interest and influence. These are the values Europe stands for and which you want to accept. At the end of the 1970s – some may remember, and those who do not remember were able to read and educate – Western forces made their plans for post-it time in Yugoslavia, where the main goal was to break Yugoslavia and throw up Slovenia and Croatia in their sphere of influence. In the late '80s and early 1990s, an ideal atmosphere appeared for that. The secession of Slovenia and Croatia supported above all, you know, by Germany, against the then Constitution of the SFRY and the current constitutions of Croatia and Slovenia. Slovenia and Croatia are automatically recognised as two independent states, creating a new factual state in which the United States could seek its share of interest within then-independent BiH, which should serve as a basis for the creation of a so-called Green Transversal, which would represent a line of defence against the possible spread of European interests in the Middle East. I'm saying this because I want to explain to you that whatever you're doing to me and whoever was in power since the 1990s and here, more or less, this idea of those who wanted to break Yugoslavia would probably be done. So don't let us go far back. In 2000, we were promised entry into the EU in 2007, and now they say no one will be admitted to the EU between 2007 and 2012. We won't even be in 2020. So, turn to business within the state, let's speed up legislative activity, improve the conditions for the arrival of healthy capital, make our economy grow, people get jobs. Who needs this number of unemployed comas in Europe? You can see they're introducing visas. The Romanians last introduced us visas, and before them Hungarians. Where else can we go without a visa? Who promised us that from you four years ago? You can't go to Europe like that. I wanted to say one more thing about the issue of responsibility for speeding up civil war, for as many victims, above all Serbs in the former republics of the SFRY. Why has the creation of the Hague tribunal, which is now standing around our necks as a constant blackmail – if you want this one, give this one more, or if you want this one, you have to catch that one and that one. The United States is inventing a UN tribunal to punish victims of the conflict to hide a series of unfair actions surrounding the Yugoslav crisis and to avoid responsibility for it. To the Americans, as well as to the Germans, it was appropriate for the majority of the blame to be placed on the Serbs, and it is logical for Serbs to be the greatest victims of the UN tribunal. Gentlemen, what does the state do to deal with this election and help these people?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6764	Time, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6765	I'll respect the weather. What is it doing to help Milosevic, Krajisnik, Ojdanic, Sainovic, Milutinovic, Seselj, Sljivancanin, Dokmanovic? We've missed a lot of time. Those who advise the foreign minister as one former professor who answers the question of what you would do if you were charged, he says...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6766	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, it's 23 minutes. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6767	I'm done. And he says - I'd kill myself. These are messages that Serbia is sending to the UN tribunal's warrants rather than taking seriously its role and importance and the essence of the court's existence. I'll tell you, as an authorised representative of the SRS, that MPs cannot vote for such a resolution. We will not even plead against it, so that you do not realize that we are against European integration. We'll let you decide for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6768	Proposer, go ahead. We have a promoter, we have a replica of Mr. Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6769	Just a few clarifications when it comes to how this resolution has reached the congregation procedure. What we need to know is that the creation of a work version of the resolution began after the establishment of the Committee on European Integration. I will remind you, it is a new committee, therefore, a committee that exists only since this assembly assembly. So somewhere in mid-February of the month, and what I said at the beginning, in co-operation with the European Movement in Serbia and the Government of Serbia's Office for the EU accession, a working group consisted of members of the Committee, representatives of the European Movement, the Government's office. The SRS MPs who are members of the Committee on European Integration were also invited to participate in the work of the working group, so that the working group would be composed of representatives of all political parties, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, were represented by the Committee. The explanation given to me as chairman of the Committee was that the party did not want to participate in the work of the working group because it was a topic to be discussed at the level of party leaders. We are talking about politicising certain issues, and on the other hand we are politicising the issue of naked facts – the issue of European integration. In that sense, I think that it is Parliament, namely the parliamentary committee, whose competences of European integration are most called upon to put the resolution concerning the process of European integration together and to draw it up. That is how the other members of the Committee declared themselves. The fact is that the head of the SRS parliamentary group is not only a member of the Committee on European Integration but is also a vice-president of that committee and I must conclude that the only session he attended was a constitutional session. So he did not participate in the work of the Committee on European Integration and I was given the party's view that party representatives do not want to participate in the process. The bottom line is that this resolution is done right in the Assembly itself, or within the Committee itself, which speaks of the importance of the National Assembly as the most institution in the country. And as an institution in whose direct jurisdiction it will be precisely to comply with the legislation of the European Union, that is to say, to adopt those laws. It is precisely this institution that is to the greatest extent authorised to draw up a resolution concerning European integration, i.e. to lay the groundwork for the European integration process in the coming period. I must again express my regret, which I have already said several times in public, which the SRS MPs did not want to join in this work, although they were invited on several occasions to participate in the work of the working group and the work of the Committee. On the other hand, it's important to say that no one on the outside has done this resolution. It's exactly the opposite. It is one of its greatest values, which has just been done in this house, in this institution, in the highest institution of this country. That's exactly her greatest value. Also, I would like to fully agree with the previous speaker, the DSS representative, that we need to reform the administration and all those operational sectors involved in the process of European integration and that we will have to implement to the greatest extent all those views, general acts and other regulations that this Assembly will adopt, which must be implemented in this particular domain. That is why there is also a provision for a resolution relating to the creation of a national strategy for joining the European Union – and of course, when the time comes, this Parliament – which is about to determine the order of moves and concrete steps that must be taken in this regard. As promoters, we really expect the national strategy to put forward proposals for all these reforms right now. When it comes to the market, I owe it as an explanation that the European Union system is based on so-called. Four freedoms. It's freedom of movement of people, goods, capital and services. This enables an extremely wide market, allowing it to be placed on a much wider market than that provided by the frameworks of a country. So, in the 21st century, we can't afford to be a country that attracts autarchically and of course we have to meet the condition that our standard is significantly higher than the existing one to qualify for membership in the European Union. Finally, the European Union is an organisation based on certain principles. Like certain principles, associations, NGOs, political parties are based. If you want to become a member of any association or organization, you accept the principles on which it is based. Therefore, we cannot set the conditions under which we will enter the European Union, but every country that wants to enter the European Union must meet certain conditions. In which he tries to comply with his national interests to secure for himself the best possible negotiating position, as the process of joining the European Union is the process of negotiations with the European Union. So, the moment we become candidates for membership, we enter into concrete negotiations concerning all those processes, measures and activities that we must coordinate to join the European Union. I hope that we will have the best negotiators and allow ourselves to make our position in these negotiations as best as possible and in a sweet way with national interests. However, the European Union does not accept the thesis, or accept conditions stemming from certain political views bordering on conspiracy theories and bordering on big Serbia's dreams. These are standards that the European Union and the 21st century and the modern world simply can't accept anymore, and we as serious citizens who we really want in the European Union must also not accept, nor allow these standards to become prevailing in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6770	Replica. Mr. Prophetic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6771	First of all, no one says we can condition anyone. We must fight for our position. This will be a united replica to Miss Milivojevic and Mrs. Pop-Lazic. We must now start fighting for our position and our negotiating position. I set an example as a raspberries, our strategic product from which the state earns 70,000,000 euros a year. There's still a lot of such products. I don't want to burden you with it or waste your time at the pay phone. As for the criteria for EU entry, there are three types of criteria: political, economic and administrative. The fact that we are burdened with various political matters from Kosovo through the functionality or dysfunction of the state union, the Dayton and Paris Peace Agreement, its application or non-application, Resolution 1244, must not interfere with us now in applying standards concerning economic and administrative areas, health care, education. So everything that has absolutely nothing to do with political criteria we must now start applying and implementing into our system. We should not want to enter the European Union because someone imposes it on us but because of ourselves, because it is a safe way to increase the standard of living, quality of services, standardise certain procedures. Finally, as for the theory of conspiracy and management of the Democratic Party of Serbia from the shadows, if I wanted to be maligned, I would say that the Serbian Radical Party of Republika Srpska was abolished by Carlos Westendorf and that a year ago, after Paddy Ashdown arrived, he returned to the political scene of Republika Srpska as the Serbian Radical Alliance -- Dr Vojislav Seselj. Is that what you're doing with Ashdown and the NATO Pact? Is it possible that you didn't become a NATO pact party in Bosnia and Herzegovina? You're not, of course, because I know the whole story and I have complete information. I said if I wanted to be maligned, I'd talk like that. You fought in Republika Srpska for your rights and eventually fought in front of the Office of the High Representative. I congratulate you on that, but some semi-information, misinformation, I don't think they should be the subject from this pay phone. However, this is the National Assembly and still needs to talk about the subject, because it is the best way for European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6772	Replica. Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6773	Dear colleagues, I can't really look back on what Mr. Prophetovic is saying right now, because I don't know how he recognized himself and his political party in what I was saying. Obviously, there's something I don't have in mind or don't know, but I will inform Mr. Prophetic about your political party. It's possible that you know more about this scurvy than I do. I'm sure I'll find out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6774	Excuse me, Mrs. Pop Lazic. I'll give you your time. I ask all MPs, do not throw and debate with the speaker from the bench and vice versa, do not answer the MPs. There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6775	Everyone here has found that some of the preconditions for European integration are clearly precise. They're political, economic and economic. Tell me what condition do we now meet? We don't meet any of them. Do we want to fill it out? We do. Why haven't we met him yet? Is it because of incompetence, lack of desire? That's what those in power have been saying since 2000. I cannot answer these questions why we are now further from the European Union than we have been. I also ask those who were in power until these December elections, the previous DOS, and please this current DOS, which has only become a bit of a reconstruction, to come out and tell us why we are so far away from the European Union. I, as a folk MP, and the citizens of Serbia, too, expect it from you, gentlemen. Don't let me go out now and explain to the press why we are so far away from the European Union. We all want to integrate into Europe. We are historically, culturally, economically already in Europe, but we need no one like this. For whoever destroyed us, we take no responsibility for me or my political party. Our dream of great Serbia is a dream that no one can take from us. Because of that dream, no one will punish us. And you, when you wake up in the morning and you've been dreaming, interpreting dreams and always looking to interpret them in the best possible way. Can I forbid you, even irrationally, to dream? I can't forbid you. Can you forbid me to dream something? You can't. Will someone punish me for my dreams? You're welcome. There's nothing tangible. Is there anything we lost wrong? There is. Do you remember 1915 after Ferdinand was killed? Did the Austrians want to investigate Serbia who killed Ferdinand? Well, did the Serbs allow it? They said he can't. What's going on here? Anything can happen to us. And, please, don't lecture us on such important issues as those who have 1.6 per cent in the electoral body – less than the statistical error in ballots.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6776	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Omeragic. Replica. Please, there's no reason to give incorrect information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6777	Dear ladies and gentlemen, this today reminded me of the early '90s. I heard today from a lady from the Radical Party that she was seeing some sort of transversals again, long-terms, parallels, greens, colorfuls, reds. This is where I count five members of the Radical Party who wear green. I see they're not allergic to green. It is extremely tragic today, when we talk about a resolution that should bring us closer to European integration, these transverses are seeing again. Let me remind you that in the early 1990s in this House people were discussing fears of Europe and of the transversals. And as we talked more and more about the green transversals, we saw that the Slovenians were leaving, so the Croats were leaving, leaving, leaving, while we kept talking every day about the fear of the transversal. These are the nebulises that should constantly cause a dose of fear for the European institutions and for the institutionalisation of this country and this society, as well as the nebulosis of how you can spread fears, produce fears without answering anyone for it. There is no official institution that can confirm that there is something that is dangerous for this country by this green conversion, and it is never clearly said here, referring to some facts, what is a danger to this country, who is behind that green transverse and behind those inventions. I therefore call on MPs who speak on this topic not to do so, to concentrate on the legal system of this country, to create a political atmosphere that will bring us closer to the European institutions. When I am told to talk about this resolution, I will talk about what needs to be changed in the political and legal system of this country, in the behaviour of this country in all those who have an honest intention of approaching European institutions. So once again, I call for fear of something that doesn't exist from this pay phone, because it's simple nebuloses.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6778	According to the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Pop-Lazic. If it is not clear to some, this was a replica to the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic, and she appears and asks for a word, after the previous MP appeared and asked for a replica, and since it was given before, it was given to the MP Omeragic, and this is now, according to the Rules of Procedure, on the replica of Mr Omeragic, according to the Rules of Procedure of Gordana Pop-Lazic, because it is misread. [[Sagar.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6779	Mr. President has given Mr. Omeragic the right to the replica against the Rules of Procedure. That's obvious. I can't stay without saying it. I don't see in what capacity Mr. Omeragic went out for a pay phone unless he's protecting the Green Transversal. I don't know, I was talking about the historical fact and the aspirations that this transversal is being achieved. In my afternoon presentation, I will in one ten-minute lecture remind you of all the events of the '70s and here, unless Mr. Omeragic knows all this. But if it were about my exposure and said that I wanted to spread some fear, I don't know why a green transverse would be any fear for the Serbs at all. I don't know what you're trying to accomplish. I'm not scaring anyone. Who do you want to scare? I'm absolutely not scaring anyone. I want to encourage everyone to join European integration, and I especially want to encourage the government of Serbia and those who have the responsibility to create conditions to enter European integration. I have to remind someone of the past, because the past teaches us how to behave in the future. So, please, don't recognize yourself where you don't belong, and I ask the President of the Assembly to take care of who, and on what basis, gives you the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6780	Thank you. I wasn't present throughout your presentation so I couldn't know, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, whether Mr. Omeragic was mentioned personally or not... Please, no one pointed that out. It is therefore my duty to give a replica to an MP who claims to have been mentioned before, or that his political party has been mentioned. And now, I suppose a replica of the exhibit, according to the Rules of Procedure, Gordane Pop-Lazic. Here you go. Now he's been called personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6781	The lady replaced the thesis and said I wanted to scare someone. She scares the citizens of Serbia with that green crossover and I want to remind her of one thing. Sandzak is the most stable part of the Republic of Serbia. Since the '90s, gentlemen and the press and all the conducting media have spread some kind of fear for days and days, some kind of reverse. I'd like someone to come here and tell me what a citizen of Serbian nationality had a problem in Sandzak. To tell me by name and last name, and I as a national MP from that region can tell you that this is the most stable part of the Republic of Serbia, where there are no international conflicts, where there is no problem. That press isn't my press, it's what you're throwing, it's a print that's handled by those who are a relic of the former system, which isn't a decommissioned system. We were also told by Mr Dinkic and Mr Draskovic and senior state ministers, who say we have a parallel system in our state institutions. They spread fear in Telegraph, in Evening News, on state television and individual private media. Those who live in Novi Pazar and in the whole of Sandzak, we have experienced this these days, all the press has reported that international relations in Sandzak are the best relations in this country. Gentlemen, while the press in Serbia wrote about fears that conditions were created in Sandzak to disrupt international relations, you received a violation in Vojvodina. Whenever you wrote that your international relations in Sandzak were violated, you were violated in Preshevo. Whenever you wrote that your international relations in Sandzak were violated, they broke in Kosovo. I'm talking about the press. (President: Mr. Omeragic, give a copy of the press to the newspaper, and give a copy to the messenger behind the speaker. Therefore, I say to you, and to all citizens of Serbia, be carefree. Since we never get a chance to show up on one of Belgrade's TVs, this is the only way to participate and have Serbian citizens see us. So much for me. You have no reason to spread any fears, because Sandzak is your most stable region of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6782	I ask the MPs to give future replicas to the MPs, not to the media and the press. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6783	Mr. Markovic, unlike Mr. Omeragic, I don't want to abuse the Rules of Procedure and the Assembly and I couldn't answer the line, because he didn't directly mention my name, but that's why, by Article 100. Rules of Procedure, offended the dignity of the Assembly. At first, you could not even give him the word, to report to Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic – you should have told him first one warning, then the second time – especially because of the fact that, when he came out for a pay phone, he began his appearance to insult the most numerous parliamentary group - 82 SRS MPs, citing what color suits he was wearing, saying they were MPs of Radical rather than Serbian Radical parties. And then, in what euphoria and for what reason -- for his promotional reasons, because he wanted to achieve something, and apparently failed, because the MPs heard quite calmly what he wanted to say -- he began to use the words "stupid", "nebulosis", "invented", the words forbidden by the Rules of Procedure and which should not be used by one MP in a democratic atmosphere. Mr. Omeragic, you are out of context, and in order to create yourself a room for manipulation, you only wanted to draw two words. From a comprehensive and brilliant speech by Mrs Pop-Lazic you pulled the words "green transverse" to try to achieve some effect, to talk about you and us. Who are you and who are we? You spoke of a factual state in one part of the Republic of Serbia – the Raška area – which no one disputed. To speak of the facts concerning your life and the life of the Muslim minority in that part of Serbia is indeed in extreme boldness, not to use any other word, by manipulating what is a living historical fact, and what Mrs Pop-Lazic, as an MP and as a politician, is primarily a lawyer, wanted to explain, not to address you, but first of all, to propose this resolution. It was not the Serbian Radicals from 1990 to 1991 to today that they invented some conspiracy theory, but the fact that we as a state and as a people, including members of all the national minorities now living in Serbia and Montenegro, suffered because of such a policy, a policy of double arches and a policy that cost us dearly. I also refer to the sacrifices suffered by the Serb people in the Republika Srpska Krajina, Republika Srpska, and above all, to the factual situation in Kosovo and Metohija and such last night's move by the current president of the Republic of Serbia. You had no reason, neither as a colleague nor as an MP, nor as a member of a single parliamentary group, to manipulate in such a reckless manner two words from her speech, drawn from the context, from a context that warns us that with much greater awareness and security we must approach everything that the legislative authority does and what we as MPs must do in the future, to live better and to have prosperity. (President: Time. ) So, affirmatively speaking about what our obligations are, but first of all, by referring to the undisputed historical facts, she wanted to address all MPs, not you personally, just doing the work, so that she herself did not understand on what basis you received the word. The next time you go out for a pay phone with a little less tension, listen carefully to what is being said, and not in such a way that you abuse what was the subject of a truly extensive discussion of a woman who is the MEP of the largest and most numerous parties in this House and in the entire electoral body in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6784	Replica, Mr. Omeragic, at the end of the break, and the break is up to 15.45 hours. [[After break – 16,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work towards the agenda – item 1 – Proposal for a resolution on joining the European Union. Before we continue, I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum. According to official records, 161 MPs are present. Thank you. By applying the electronic system, it has been established that we have enough to continue the work. Mr. Miroljub Labus has the word. Mr. Omeragic gave up the replica, meanwhile, because he is not present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6786	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to address you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have received a motion for a resolution on EU accession, and as a government, we have decided to support this proposal. For me, this debate on the resolution is a great encouragement because this is a continuation of the National Assembly session and this topic in continuing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a topic that is related to the European accession of our country. It's really great encouragement because we have a big road ahead of us and we're waiting for the formation of a necessary political consensus without whom we won't be able to finish this job together. Of course, there are different opinions about some parts of the text resolution and I don't want to comment on it. You will vote on amendments to decide what will be the final text of the resolution. What we, as a government, want to support, is the view that Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro's involvement in the EU, is our national interest. It is a national interest and it is at the same time a definition of national interest, because it represents a solution to our national issue. It will be a solution to the national issue for Serbs, for all national minorities, for all citizens living in our country. Once, in the former Yugoslavia, we had another solution to the national issue. It doesn't work anymore. Our only way to live within the same borders today is the EU, because the borders are invulnerable and the borders cannot be changed based on the Helsinki principles of non-violence of borders and on the basis of the international agreements that we have ratified. One of the contracts we ratified is the Dayton Treaty. On the basis of this contract, we have accepted obligations on the protection and non-violence of borders and within such an international legal framework. The only way that all Serbs live under one state order is that we are in the EU. We too have an interest in having other countries around us join the EU as soon as possible and we join the EU. Is the EU calling us? Yeah. Last June, a meeting was held in Thessaloniki, a meeting of the president of states or governments of all EU member states, and a famous Thessaloniki Declaration was brought. According to the Thessaloniki Declaration, all Western Balkan countries, including Serbia-Montenegro, will be EU members. So we have a guarantee that we will be a member of the EU. We don't have a guarantee when. It is up to us and it is today the subject of our conversation, to agree on what we should do to be in the EU in 2012. We've lost two years. We made great progress between 2000 and 2002, and then we lost two years. Any government can allow this country to join the EU. You have made a significant contribution to our EU country with legislative activity in the previous period, because all those laws adopted here are laws that are harmonised with EU rules. It is one small part, one bit of mosaic in that big picture – our integration into the EU. It is clear, therefore, that a political decision was made in 2003 to make Serbia-Montenegro an EU member from the point of view of the current EU members' offer. In June of this year, the EU's European Partnership Directive was adopted and the EU formally pledged to accept membership of Western Balkan member states. She said under what conditions she would do it. Now the question is, under what conditions? Under the same conditions as for Romania, under the same conditions as for Bulgaria, under the same conditions as for Croatia, under the same conditions as for Macedonia. Can we not meet these conditions and Croatia can and Romania can and Bulgaria can and Macedonia can? I believe we can meet those conditions. Both Bulgaria and Romania will be in the EU, Croatia between 2007 and 2009. Macedonia is very close to obtaining candidate status. We're not. Now the question is, what are we going to do to get candidate status? There is only one condition on our side – that there is our common desire to be in the EU tomorrow. If this common desire really exists, we will be in the EU in 2012. If there's no such thing as a common desire, we'll never be. You're right if you doubt it. If there is no mutual desire, then we will never, but that means we will keep looking at the backs and the Croats and the Macedonians and the Bulgarians and the Romanians and the others. I don't think we deserve it. We didn't deserve to look at anyone's back. Does this government have a vision of EU accession? There is. But we all need to know that it's not a simple path and that some serious decisions are ahead of us and it's really a question for us, whether we want to make those decisions or not. If we want to, we'll be in the EU in 2012. Unless we want to, of course we won't be. The order of those decisions is next. This year, we need to review the action plan on the harmonisation of two markets, Serbia's market and Montenegro's market, which was adopted last year. We can't, and we don't need to change everything, but some things have to change, especially in some products where there's been a completely baseless decline in customs rates. That's why we have this much foreign exchange deficit. We don't want to change everything, but 50 products have to be audited. That's quite clear. On the other hand, there is one topic, about which there is no agreement so far, and that is whether we will respect our Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. It's no longer an international obligation. It's our law. It's a test whether we respect our laws or not. If we respect the laws and make changes necessary for harmonisation between Serbia and Montenegro, we receive a positive study of the feasibility of negotiations at the beginning of next year and close the accession and stabilisation agreement by the end of next year. In 2005, the main issue is the Kosovo and Metohija status issue. The second question will be put on the agenda unless we put it on the table. We need to put that question and the basis for that is the negotiations based on that plan that you adopted here, the territorial autonomy plan. The government has the authority of you to negotiate the implementation of this plan and the government, this or any other one, is the only one empowered to negotiate with others on the basis of this plan. If you change the platform in the meantime, we'll negotiate another platform. I don't think there's any need to change the platform. The government is responsible for these negotiations and we need to initiate these negotiations, not someone else to give us a nearly solution. This is important because we need to know for a further journey to the European Union what is the institutional framework in which we are moving. In 2006, we need to know whether the state union of Serbia-Montenegro survives or not. If it survives, it will be the will of the people. We need to know that we need to change the Constitutional Charter, because based on this Constitutional Charter of our institution of the state community, they cannot conduct negotiations with the European Union, they do not have the capacity to take and carry out obligations. If we don't agree to have one state union, we'll have two separate states. The decision, however it may be, must be made in 2006. By 2007, the principle of double track. Since 2007, we've been back on one track. It's up to us to define which track. Whether it's a colossal of the state community or it's the track of Serbia remains to be defined. Since 2007, we can get candidate status for accession to the European Union and in five years we can be in the European Union. So we lost two years. If we make these decisions and if there is a common desire, we can be in the European Union in 2012. If it doesn't exist, of course that period will be much longer. I'd like to tell you a little bit more about the technical details of what's called the two-track process. The Belgrade Charter said there would be harmonisation of the two markets within a certain period. It didn't come. It didn't come, and we can discuss why. It didn't come because Montenegro didn't want that harmonisation and we couldn't accept everything; and even if we had accepted everything again, it would have been a problem. Then, in negotiations with the European Union, we were able to persuade them to change the temporary approach. We're going on two tracks. What does that mean? On foreign policy, on military and defence issues and on human rights is a competent state community, and on all other issues Serbia has its responsibilities. Then there will be one joint agreement, and within that there will be a protocol for Serbia and a protocol for Montenegro. If our brothers of Montenegro think they can move faster, let them move faster into the European Union. I doubt it. No one in these two or three years will mind, so we'll see where there's a real desire to join the European Union and where it doesn't exist. Of course, there must be execution criteria in that agreement, what happens in the first year, what else, what the third, and that's the contract. So we in that contract have rights and obligations and the other side has rights and obligations, because it's a two-sided relationship. I'm sure we'll have access to the so-called. Pre-accession funds. The European Union now significantly simplifies the structure of its financial assistance. Only five funds will exist, two of which are important to us: funds for investment and funds for macro-financial assistance. We'll have the right to have one piece, to withdraw one part of the funds so that we can cover those adjustment costs. On the other hand, we'll take the responsibility of what we're going to do in the first year as a set of laws, what else, what third. You know exactly how this harmonisation works. So it's a two-sided relationship, it's a contract, which we'll negotiate next year and when we close the deal, then we have both rights and obligations in that contract. What does the government have to do in the next month? Change us if you can. [[Sagar.]] You're changing. Until you change us, we'll work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6787	I ask the MPs not to receive and ask Mr. Labus not to discuss it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6788	Until you change us, if you can replace us, the government will come up with an action plan for the European Partnership, for the implementation of the European Partnership...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6789	Excuse me, Mr. Labus, Mr. Mircic, this is your first warning. Milorad Mircic: Why are you giving me a warning? What are you doing? Go on, Mr. Labus, sit down, Mr. Mircic, continue, Mr. Labus. Please sit down. There's no need to get excited. Here you go, Mr. Labus. Pursuant to Article 102. We can discuss it later, sit down. Excuse me one more time, there's no reason to disturb the course of the session. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6790	I don't mind this conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6791	Mr. Mircic, there's no reason to get excited. Mr. Labus, you have no reason to discuss each other. We'll make it right if there's any mistake, we'll take a look, be kind, I'll have to run the Rules of Procedure. I've missed it ten times already. Be kind enough to keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6792	We must therefore draw up an action plan for the implementation of the European Partnership. It's a plan that has its own turn of driving. In that order of driving you know exactly what the ministry should do and when. Also, we will deliver to the Assembly what laws we expect the Assembly to adopt and when. This will be our joint contribution to moving towards the European Union. I want to finish. This session, perhaps someone hasn't heard at the beginning, for me is an encouraging session, because this is the first topic in this session that we've talked about the European Union like this. I think this is one process of making a common will or consensus to do a job that is good for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6793	Thank you. Do any of the representatives or presidents want a word? Here you go, Mr. Yevtić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6794	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that today we have this resolution on the agenda that addresses the issue of Serbia's accession to the European Union, which has been created as a direct consequence of the multi-month work of the Committee on European Integration. The fact is that Serbia is the only country in the region, and it seems to me wider, which does not have one such document, whether it is called a resolution or a declaration. I mean countries like Croatia, Macedonia, and of course Slovenia, Poland and all other countries that entered the European Union several months ago. Of course, the reason for the lack of such a document is primarily because Serbia has for a long time been unable to reach a political consensus, and today I do not think we have a full or general political consensus on this issue. That's one big problem we're definitely gonna have to deal with. We also need to respect that there is a big gap in Serbia's readiness for Serbia to finally enter the European Union from one, and above all inactivity and inactivity in the functioning of political parties and state administration on the other, and also a very low level of information for Serbian citizens on the process of joining the European Union. This is best done by data that say that, according to all the 2004 surveys, more specifically from April, over 80% of Serbian citizens want Serbia to join the European Union, and also more than 30% of Serbian citizens express their dissatisfaction with the functioning of political parties, including political organisations and state administrations. A little less than 5% of Serbian citizens are satisfied with the amount of information they receive about the accession process to the European Union. A bit of paradoxical data, but the data it certainly encourages, has been that, since 1998, there has been a strong public desire for Serbia to become part of Europe. No matter what we've been in isolation for many years, no matter what we've had to bomb in the late 1990s, no matter what the international community conditions, this trend still exists, and that's what needs to encourage us all. On the basis of all the political documents coming from Brussels, it can be clearly concluded that political stability in the country as well as general social consensus on the subject is very important for the European Union's accession process. It is necessary that all relevant social factors take part in this process in all its stages, in order for the accession process to have something called democratic legitimacy. The third major factor in the accession process is certainly the general political consensus, the consensus of all parties in parliament today on the subject of the European Union's accession. This is important in order to finally coordinate the work of the legislative and executive authorities, which directly affects the speed and efficiency of this process, i.e. the implementation of the accession process and directly affects the period, that is, the moment when we will finally enter the European Union. There have been many disputes on the Committee on European Integration itself and there have been several topics that we have really failed to absorb, about which we have not found the best possible solution, and the formulations in the resolution itself are not explicit enough. What is the biggest problem with this resolution is certainly the issue of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. The second question, which we have failed to fully resolve, is the issue of joining the Partnership for Peace programme. Third, the most painful issue is Serbia-Montenegro's co-operation with the International Tribunal in The Hague. As for the very problems relating to the survival of the state community, it is not about the changed or changed position of any parliamentary group and its representatives, but rather about the respect of the fact that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro exists as an international-legal entity and as long as that is the case, we will have to respect it. The reason why the Democratic Party has been for the existence of this community since the very beginning is a vision of the European Union that requires a certain degree or level of regional integration, but not a regional integration that would aim itself, but a regional integration that leads Serbia-Montenegro and the whole region towards the European Union. The second reason is because, at that moment, Resolution 1244 was envisaged, and today it is, that Kosovo is actually part of the state union of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, not Serbia. The issue of Kosovo is very important to us, very important at this point, and all that is said today is that the Kosovo issue is actually beginning yesterday or last night, of course not true. Kosovo's problem dates back to the 1990s and is a direct consequence of the poor state policy led by the SRS and the SPS. Of course, the result, above all, of the bombings we had in 1999 and then of the Kuman agreement that brought Serbs into a difficult position in Kosovo today. One of the speakers mentioned that DS boycotted the election twice during the 1990s, 1996, and the party's leadership then admitted that it was a bad instrument. Of course, a boycott of the election exists as a possibility that the situation in Kosovo is treated in a certain way. But if you ask me if the boycott of the election is a guarantee that it will not happen again on 17 March and that violence against Serbs in Kosovo and other populations will stop, I absolutely disagree. First of all, it is necessary to regulate standards, ensure that Serbian citizens can live safely there. We all agree on that. Is a boycott the only possible means, of course not? The next issue treated by this resolution, which should certainly be explained today, is the issue of the Partnership for Peace programme. Ivica Dacic mentioned that it has nothing to do with the European integration process. Of course that is not true and I can state at least two reasons why the Partnership for Peace should be an integral part of this resolution. The fact is, from Alaska to Morocco, there aren't any countries in the world today that aren't part of this programme. The second fact is much more important and is in favour that the Euro-Atlantic integration process should be treated in an integrated manner and that these two things should not be separated. Today, in Europe, no country that is a member of the European Union has become that without before that being part of the Partnership for Peace programme. Two more reasons are in favour of Serbia's entry into the Partnership for Peace. Of course, this is primarily the commitment of the citizens of Serbia, which is a fundamental assumption that we would be dealing with this problem in the first place, and secondly, by even entering one such programme, Serbia is entering into a regional concept of security, which is essential in one thorny region. The final issue is the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal and it is certainly an inevitable issue to deal with. Although it is painful for us, if you ask us whether the UN tribunal has so far been fair, whether all decisions have been completely just and respected the procedure and everything else, of course I will say no. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal at the moment is indeed inevitable and Serbia must face it. This is the first and basic condition for Serbia to continue its European integration path. I will not agree with politicians who say that co-operation with The Hague tribunal is one time without an alternative, of course I disagree. I think there is an alternative -- financial sanctions against our country, isolation, absence and the suspension of all investments that have been started in Serbia lately. So, one situation that we've been through in the 1990s, along with hyperinflation and fuel sales on the streets. I think it's time behind us, that Serbia wants to move forward to Europe, that the only way is to respect the facts and co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Of course, that all responsible political factors, first of all at this moment I think of the government, must respect that state. The Democratic Party is also ready in this regard to take full responsibility and in this respect our position has not changed. What is definitely most important at this point is that Serbia has taken its course. The course is pro-European, the course is ongoing and the process will continue until its final outcome, which is certainly Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro's entry into the European Union. What we must certainly do in this process, on our part, as parliamentarians and representatives of the legislative authority, is make this process as fast as possible and make it as effective as possible. It is this resolution that is one of the instruments to do so. I will remind you that you have several tens of thousands of regulations and the harmonisation of legislation with the legislation of the European Union in the coming period, and in order to do so, it is necessary to achieve a common denominator on essential matters. It is a question of European integration. In the last year in Serbia, European policy has completely defeated that policy that wants Serbia back into the XIX century. To remind Mr Radical that the Serbian Radical Party's defeat was also experienced in the December and presidential elections, as well as in the recent local elections. Serbia's only alternative is to join the European Union. Of course, the parties to the pro-European orientations are completely dominant in relation to the SRS and will continue this path in the next period with or without radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6795	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6796	Dear colleagues, MPs, I must say that I am deeply disturbed and disappointed when I hear some young fellow Members, and besides that, when the issue of Kosovo and Metohija has been trying to bind to one political party or for the last ten or fifteen years. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is two centuries old and it is probably known to everyone. What some don't know and don't want to know is the fact that Yugoslavia has invested more than $20 billion in Kosovo's economic development, education, culture and all that it does to improve overall life in Kosovo. The fact is that the separatist movement in Kosovo and Metohija caused later developments in Kosovo and Metohija, for the simple reason that they had a completely selective approach to rights and obligations. They wanted all rights as SFRJ citizens and later the SRJ, but no obligations and it's known. If someone thinks the fight against terrorism that the state of Serbia has conducted in the 1990s is the cause of events in Kosovo and Metohija, then he does not simply know what is going on. Not even Kissinger in his documents, books and other elaborates on developments in Kosovo and Metohija, or the Balkans, speaks of anything else to combat terrorism. He's talking about overuse of armed forces. He avoids using the terms some domestic MPs use. Otherwise, even if we accept that the policy of the previous government was bad, I'm asking one simple question and, I think, a logical question. KFOR and UNMIK have been someone who has exercised power in Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. Since 1999, more than 280,000 Serbs and other citizens of different nations and nationalities have been expelled from Kosovo and Metohija, 1,200 were killed, 1,200 were kidnapped, 1,400 were wounded and injured, 899 settlements were left without Serbs. Is that ethnic cleaning? Yeah. What did DOS do about it? Nothing. Why? That's the question. It's easy to talk about the past than to give answers to the present and why the DOS didn't react. Those who lecture us now on events in Kosovo and Metohija were due yesterday, two or three years ago to say what obligations the international community took and why it did not implement them. Why are we talking about our obligations? Why does the current government, the previous government use the category of final status of Kosovo and Metohija? The final status has been established by Resolution 1244. Full autonomy. It's the content of the conversation. Why do we prejudge the state of affairs? These are questions that require answers, not the replacement of thesis, and then they are responsible for socialists and radicals. Why didn't we make things better? If DOS was a favorite of the West, and he was a favorite of the West, why didn't he do something? You consider progress to determine the state that 280,000 Serbs were expelled. It's not politics, and those people shouldn't be involved in politics, but rather in saying -- we're doing business in the interests of others. In international relations theory, there is an expression for these people. I won't use it for the dignity of the National Assembly, but it can't be. If we want a national consensus, if we want a parliamentary consensus, then we have to work on a consensus rather than offer documents and have stories that lead to divided Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6797	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Jankovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it were luck, and we seem to be out of luck, we would discuss a resolution like this at the beginning of this term. Why? If there is some cornerstone of the country's foreign policy to be discussed in the Serbian Parliament, it is a debate on the relationship to the European Union, a debate on Europe. We've been dealing with everything and everything here, arguing about everything and everything, but we haven't talked about where we're going or how we're going to go. As we talk about it, the children of your friends and our friends, the children of my friends, my child, are thinking about going abroad or they're already gone. We repeat those old stories to which we resented the Socialists, others, etc. How our kids were going abroad, and now our kids are going abroad, maybe even more than before. Why? Just because we don't have a strategy on where our place is in Europe and now we remember. I wish the citizens had this text in front of them today in the papers, so when they follow this transmission, they can read what we suggested. I'd like the citizens here to see a public vote so tomorrow they can call those who are against this resolution to ask - gentlemen, why are you against spreading European values, why do you like to wear bows, suits and most often with foreign labels, drive nice cars, have good apartments, and you don't want a brownie in room four with four to spread our domestic Balkan values? I won't talk about those who will vote against. The question is raised by those who will vote for this resolution, especially if they are in the ruling set. Do they and what will make this resolution live and make this resolution a policy of this country? A few months ago, I had an opportunity in a parliamentary delegation to be in the Bulgarian Parliament. There, along with their national symbols and markings, stands the flag of the European Union. There is a European Union flag on government buildings everywhere. I asked them why, if they're not in the European Union. It's simply the definition of that state and that people. They want to join the European Union and thus show their commitment. I do not believe they consider themselves less patriots and nationalists and fewer Bulgarians just because they have put the European Union flag. Here is the question: What will this authority - and for the citizens we, the Government, the President of the Republic - do to respect the Resolution? So far we've done less and less against that resolution. As a parliament, we have been slow to pass and to comply with the laws of the European Union. As Government, we cannot resolve those most difficult issues, and the most difficult question of all is co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The President of the Republic, here's a new, new sieve of a cuneiform hanging, turned on last night, and here's what he experienced. So the question is once again what are we going to do to respect this or say that we are not able to adopt this. Not that we don't want to, but we're not able to adopt and we're not able to take care of what this country is supposed to do in the next period. Don't forget, we're making decisions now that aren't just about us. It will concern our children, our children's children. Therefore, I say once again that those who vote in favour of the resolution have a strong obligation to stand up in their parties, in their parliamentary groups, with their authorities to implement resolution provisions. The essence is, however, at the eighth point -- the expansion of European values, and we're talking about The Hague, we're talking about NATO, we're talking about everything that may touch emotions, it may touch history, but believe it doesn't touch anyone's plate, it doesn't touch anyone's education, it doesn't touch anyone's future. So it's time for us to think about this right now, to adopt this and see how we do this. Here, after all, we have a government representative who will tell us what the government is planning for those three months when it will report and what the government plans to initiate here in front of the Serbian Parliament, so the Serbian Parliament is working faster to realise this resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6799	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let MP Miodrag Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6800	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, today we are discussing a resolution on the accession of the European Union. The topic itself raises the answer to two very simple questions whether there is agreement of all political forces in Serbia on the need for Serbia's accession to the European Union, and I think the answer is everyone's -- yes. Is there a consensus? Yeah. Does this document provide consensus? No, I don't. Why not? Because there are topics in its content that are not the subject of Serbia's association with the European Union. Whether or not you want to show disunity on this subject is another question. If the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia really wants to show its agreement, then the motion for this resolution should only have two positions. The first position is – all political parties in the National Assembly and the National Assembly express the desire, the hope needed, Serbia's expectations for joining the European Union, formulate whatever you want, and the second position – is in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia to make a national strategy for Serbia's association with the European Union. Everything else is not a consensus and it is a division. Why is there a need in this document to stand – Partnership for Peace? Why? Is the Partnership for Peace a European Union programme? Is the Partnership for Peace a condition for full membership in the European Union? Or maybe it's something else. Now, that's the third thing that bothers us. The Partnership for Peace is a NATO programme, a NATO lobby, a NATO purgatory. That's what you should know. Serbian citizens should know that the theme - Partnership for Peace is not the place in this document. If we want to discuss the Partnership for Peace, then we should have scheduled a special session of the National Assembly with the subject. Let's see if anyone and why they want to be a member of this Partnership for Peace program. It is known that the Partnership for Peace is NATO, and that agreement, as each member state signs a bilateral agreement, a NATO member accepts a number of political, military and financial commitments, until NATO assumes no commitments. Not even to help defend that country when it was attacked. And it is not correct to mention Serbia and countries in the environment, because it has helped NATO countries. There is no mention of what NATO did for Croatia when it came to the persecution of Serbs in 1994-1995. And it is not the same role NATO plays in countries in the environment and in relation to Serbia. That's what we need to talk about in public. The Partnership for Peace here is no place and why it is put – we will see. We've proposed an amendment to move that sentence away, if there's a consensus. Secondly, there are parts of this document that covertly, to say – at a small door, introduce for us a very painful topic. It's The Hague Court. We all know, or at least most know, what the contents of the Dayton Agreement provisions are, the obligation of the SRJ then to co-operate in investigating crimes at the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Since that investigation into the former Yugoslavia, we've come to The Hague and what doesn't say here, but the small door is being inserted, because in the contents of the resolution we're very much referring to the Thessaloniki Declaration. Since the promoter had no opportunity to introduce us to this Thessaloniki declaration, I will be free to only quote one part of that declaration that speaks of the need for this unequivocal co-operation with The Hague tribunal to include the transfer of the remaining indictees to The Hague. For us, for the SPS, that's unacceptable. So it's not just an international obligation, it's a transfer of the defendants to The Hague. Three years ago, before President Milosevic was arrested, the DOS spoke – either him or all of us. Just him and no one else. Well, not only has President Milosevic been kidnapped, but other people have been delivered to The Hague, some have left voluntarily, to say: they have reached some agreement with The Hague, and the Hague has not respected those obligations either. It is an interesting question why the European Union so insists on respecting the work of the UN tribunal, an institution established by the Security Council. The answer is very simple – because the court should avert NATO's aggression against our country, because the European Union countries participated in this aggression; it should give a final court on the events of 1999 and say that we were not victims but were guilty. To just turn history around, because that's what he's up to. Why is there no obligation to apply the rules of the permanent International Criminal Court established by the Rome Agreement? That's not what you want, because, of course, such provisions don't apply. The fourth thing, there's always talk about values, obligations, obligations, obligations and only obligations. Is it a two-way street issue? It's not. Are the obligations only apply to us? Yeah. A few minutes ago, I went out to replicate a young colleague and mentioned the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Has the international community, what I call an international community, fulfilled at least one of its obligations since 1999 and here? I am also talking about Resolution 1244, the Hackerup and Covic Agreement and other documents that have been signed. Has the international community returned any of the 280 thousand expelled Serbs and other citizens, members of various nationalities? Yes, it is. Do you know how much? Not a full two percent. Did she provide peace, free movement, flow of goods and capital? It's not. Did she rebuild any houses? It's not. Did she find anyone who committed the murder? It's not. Was at least one person brought to justice by those who committed that terror downstairs? It's not. Sam, by the looks of it, had strong concerns, they didn't do anything. Is that what anyone's saying? No, I don't. There's always talk of obligations. Maybe it's a game of words, different meanings of the same words, power, power or blackmail, but then let's call things a real name. Say – yes, we are being blackmailed by this international community and we have to do so; or – we are obliged to do so; or – we want to do so. Serbia owes it. Let's not talk about Serbia's accession to the European Union in 2012. Yes, but within what limits. The principle of integrity of borders in Europe has been proclaimed by Helsinki back in the '70s, but our diplomats don't mention it. The principle of respect for the Security Council resolution is general, but we speak of it the least. Kosovo's status as established by the resolution is something we least talk about and what we least ask for, and we keep talking about obligations, obligations. So, where are these same European Union obligations when it comes to our relationship? Did any of the debaters or promoters mention what these are obligations? When it comes to the European Union's impasse, this document, which we received at the entrance to the hall today, very interestingly, on page 52, speaks for itself what caused the impasse. During 2003, I quote, there is a stalemate, first in political and economic reforms, the crisis of the state community and the abuse of preferential treatment on sugar exports. The matter of sugar is something to be solved. But the question of the functioning of the state community is raised. Who signed the Belgrade Agreement and other documents that created the state union? Well, the same representatives of the European Union and domestic politicians and we are now criticising that the state union is dysfunctional, which has no contractual capacity. So who are we talking to? Should we justify ourselves or Solana? Or both? If we work for the interests of others, for the needs of others, then we should tell Serbia. In the end, what I skipped to mention about Kosovo and Metohija, and that's what I'm going to end up with. The document itself speaks about the European Union's relationship to Kosovo and the Metohija. It is said very nicely here that the modality of negotiations in Kosovo and Metohija takes place separately from that envisaged for Serbia-Montenegro i.e. that it's going through a special program. It best says what the European Union's relationship is about. If someone is willing to give up the works of Serbia's territory for joining the European Union, then that should be said today, not telling a story about values and other things that are something that is a distant future. The European Union does, but without losing state and national sovereignty, especially without losing Serbia's territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6801	Thank you. Here you go. Is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6802	I don't hate to repeat things many times today to clear up the facts because, as I said in the opening address and beyond, this resolution deals with facts. The first fact, which is essential, is that we do not decide the conditions for joining the European Union, but is decided by the European Union. These conditions are not only about us, we are not about the European Union's guinea pigs, but about any country that would want to become a full member of the Union at any time. So we don't set the conditions, like you never set the conditions when you enter a formed club based on certain principles. In that sense, we can all make a declaration every day for membership in the European Union, or every day we can repeat that we are for European integration, but it will not mean anything to us unless we do something concrete on this issue, or if the conditions that are necessary for that membership are not met. So, in case we don't want to co-operate with the UN tribunal for any reason, in case we don't want to reform the armed forces, which is being carried out under the Partnership for Peace programme and makes it easier, if we don't meet our international obligations, the European Union will say – no problem, that's your choice. But the consequence of that election is that we will not be in the European Union either. Therefore, we need to be aware of what we want and what we want to mean. We must also be aware that any national strategy on accession to the European Union that is being developed must contain priorities, activities and measures that are in line with these conditions. Otherwise, no one will make us enter the European Union. She can do it without us, but the question is whether it's our best interest. The motions of this resolution consider it to be. The motions of this resolution believe that much greater and stronger interest is joining the European Union, even if we have to meet some very painful conditions until this accession, rather than never being in the European Union, which is an alternative to this. On the other hand, speaking of borders, I have already said that the European Union is based on four basic freedoms, which is the free movement of people, goods, capital and services. The European Union is abolishing borders. Today, unfortunately, since we are not in the European Union system, as someone mentioned here, we must have filled out visa passports and it is very difficult for us to travel across the European Union. It is precisely membership in the European Union, i.e. the accelerated process of European integration that allows these borders to be erased and that we can be much easier in the European Union and to stay, to move, to make our young people perfect and return to their country and that our people can work in the European Union but not as Gustrabiters, but as its constituent part, as citizens of the European Union. That's the point. Therefore, the moment we are in the European Union, then we will have all Serbs in the European Union, within its borders, i.e. the border of united Europe. It is a way of erasing borders, not just building them even more amongst ourselves and raising them in both the region and Europe itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6803	The People's Messenger Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6804	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was just hoping that this election campaign and the election cycle madhouse had passed and that we would really already start to do some serious state-of-the-art work once today, when we have a stronger campaign than we had in the previous period. Unfortunately, a lot of demagogy and demagogue pulsism has been scattered from this place and it always begins with one and the same flossula that there is no parliamentary party sitting in this parliament and that it is against joining the European Union. And then "but" comes, and then "but" represents that we do not accept any obligation, not one rule of conduct that this European Union imposes on us. The MPs, unfortunately, are more likely to act as party MPs in this meeting by promoting the political interests of the party and courting the electoral body. They forget that MPs are chosen by the people just to fight here for a better life, for a better country that will make it possible, meaning, for state functions. Well, let me cut to the chase. What's the resolution for? Following the experiences of countries that have either already joined the European Union or are on the road, many of them have adopted resolutions and declarations. Macedonia even four: 1998, 2000, 2003 and 2004. Croatia in 2002. Slovakia on four occasions: 1997, 1998, 2002 and 2003. The only country that has not had a single resolution, fortunately, and which has had a clean situation ahead of it and clear goals is Slovenia. I'll just give you a brief description of her path. It has been working on its accession to the European Union for 12 years, and in 1992, it and the European Parliament delegation discussed the possibility of joining, and since then, thanks to the state strategy, at each session of the government, the first point has always been to make progress in the negotiations on joining the European Union. In Slovenia, which is very important, during the 12 years of the accession process, multiple parliamentary elections have been held, the assembly composition has changed, won one party or another and coalitions, the prime ministers and governments have changed, but the absolute priority of European integration has been incomparable. Parliament's parties committed themselves to a special agreement on July 3rd 1997 that they would co-operate in the accession process, etc. What was the legislative authority doing? They created 31 working groups that worked on quite concrete cases, in every area of life and work of the state, doing harmonisation. What are we going to do with this document? Our real goal at first was the national consensus, so we put the target down to political consensus as a prerequisite for national consensus. The political consensus is that it improves Serbia-Montenegro's negotiating position towards the European Union, contributes to greater stability of the state union, facilitates the work of the Assembly in the process of joining the European Union, favours the continuation of reforms, improves citizens' living standards, increases the country's capacity for a peaceful solution to potential conflicts, as well as problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Just to achieve this consensus, the Committee on European Integration has formed a working group and the ambition has been for the working group to be representatives from all parliamentary parties. The task force has worked hard for nearly seven months without a party that initially refused to co-operate. Its representatives in the Committee on European Integration insisted that no MPs, no assembly committee, no working group, but leaders should do so. What were we supposed to do? To pick up these leaders that we have left, on a plane, to send them to The Hague and write a resolution about joining the EU there at the roundtable, and to do so smoothly in this House? Then what do we do here, if the leaders need to write everything to us, and then as cloned leaders we press these buttons and implement what they imagine? You want to know how much everyone in this House appreciates our people? The European Integration Office has done a serious analysis in the public opinion study. Just a few data to give you on the views of respondents on EU membership: it will help develop our economy - 67% said that;more EU member states in the world – 76% said that; more member states in Europe peace and security – 71% yes; it is natural for our country to be a member – 74% yes; more Europe's culturally richer – 70%; our country's membership improves the quality of our country – 76% yes. But on the last question – the country's leadership is doing what it takes to become an EU member – less than 40% said that. The leadership of the country is primarily us who exercise legislative authority. We pass laws, we comply with laws with European laws. One more thing. A few things have been said here, a few qualifications have been given, and there has been an ex post mind when we adopt this motion for a resolution. First, this resolution is being made for nearly seven months and it is not true that it was made according to the statement by the president of the state of Mr. Tadic to cover what he said yesterday, as someone said. A long time ago, we started it right out of those interests that I was just talking about. It has been said here that strategic and national interests do not match. The strategic objective and interest of our country is to join the EU. In this document, if you have read it, there are clear commitments from the government to conclude the national strategy in the next step. As far as I know, Mr. Vice President runs that group. If we are showing suspicion that our country's national goal is opposed to EU membership, are these raspberries, cherry, milk or do I not know what, then why this insidious business? It certainly is a national and strategic goal of including European integration, of joining the society of developed peoples. If we act more operationally than we've done so far, we might approach, as Mr. Vice President said in 2012. Slovenia, which worked much more rationally, took 12 years. I think it's high time we called our minds and started working in one interest, in the interest of the state and the people we represent here. We had a bit of a broader consensus in this document right after we adopted it, but not to touch some who gave consent and then pulled it back. Probably after these elections, the radical part of their party raised its head, imposed some new demands, and now we have a more consensual consensus. But let me remind you, there are 12.5% of eurosceptics in the European Parliament as well. There's obviously more of them in our house. No wonder, we had a lot going on and we have a lot of pulsism in our politics. I hope we get past that. We from the SPO and New Serbia parliamentary club will normally support this resolution and all positive actions that are under way in terms of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6805	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6806	First, I'd like to clarify the misunderstanding that occurred when Professor Dr. Labus was behind the pay phone. President Markovic gave me a warning. I haven't known a single moment since I've been in this assembly, and I've known a professor for a long time, and I haven't thrown him out of my sight, especially when he's a professor that I personally and personally appreciate. This is what I'd like for the public, and it's not worth my subsequent apology from the president, because it went public. I apologize to Professor Labus, first of all. As far as the resolution is concerned, it is a little strange that in 2004, we are discussing a resolution that has, in most part, been signatories who, if nothing else, have been active or otherwise involved in the work of this assembly. This resolution should, as I understand it, as explained by the proposing representative, cover all these European standards as conditions of Serbia's entry, i.e. the Serbia-Montenegro community into the EU. Just for the sake of clarity and the public of Serbia, to be clear, this is Serbia's EU bid. We should run as a union of Serbia-Montenegro, and as candidates to be monitored, see if we are at the EU threshold, and then we enter the hall at the front of that threshold, then from the EU's hall, that's a lot. That is why some have started yelling and announcing that in 2007, it is the year when the Serbia-Montenegro community joins the EU. As far as they were right, it's their career, or the fate of politicians. They have long been in political retirement, and their personal destiny is the fate of Serbia, or the union of Serbia-Montenegro with the EU. Namely, this resolution contains certain standards and that is clear. When it comes to the willingness of the Serbia-Montenegro community to respect human rights and minority rights, we have long pictured the EU, all its forums. We ask them to show us where we are lagging behind European standards in the Constitutional Charter or legal acts relating to human, civil, and especially minority rights. When I say "we" first of all, I mean most of the political parties and the government, unrelated to the calls and their composition. We have always called on EU representatives to show us what is wrong with Serbian legislation which does not meet the condition that we are running in the EU. To this day, at least we Serbian radicals are not informed of what is wrong, what we need to install, what we need to do further to respect these European norms, when it comes not only to human rights but also to minority rights. On the other hand, we are witnessing that pressures from the European Union, when it comes to minority rights, are repeated in an almost cyclical period. We are now faced with the fact that the Council of Europe is warning us of non-compliance with minority rights in Serbia. Thanks to just the political leaders and political parties, we are in a position to prove now that we have additional rights in relation to the acquired rights of national minorities. Where in Europe does one country have to fulfill these additional rights? Where is this parallel right, let's see how it is in Europe, and more? If the work of the joint bodies of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is at stake, they are regulated and defined by the Constitutional Charter. The Charter was more or less, whether we wanted to admit it or not, imposed by the European Union. How will Serbia and in what way will it help to improve joint work, i.e. the work of the joint bodies when the same charter serves as a crown document or basic document to another republic, or another state to separate Serbia-Montenegro from the community? Thus-defined charters, signed by leaders and representatives of Serbia-Montenegro, serve Montenegro's leadership as well as a significant argument to separate itself from the Serbia-Montenegro community. Let them tell us how they'll help us. We're powerless here. We can play, we can compete on this speaker who is more or less pro-European or oriented, but Europe has imposed this charter on us. We do not have a chance if Europe does not insist on changes and the Charter to improve anything in the work of Serbia-Montenegro's joint bodies. We can watch a set of well-deserved politicians gathered at the Federation Palace and make some very significant decisions. Those decisions are the most relevant to how many Serbs, when and in what order we will deliver to The Hague. With all respect to their functions, names, another function does not exist. A function in the sense that it has some real value. When it comes to regional co-operation, it is possible to interpret it by European standards if it is so-called. state geography completed, but we are in geography when no border on Serbia or the Serbia-Montenegro community has yet to be formed. We are still witnessing a time when the federal republic is breaking up, and we see that now the strongest separation between Serbia and Montenegro, but as the Deputy Prime Minister said, and we know that too, 2005 is the decisive year for Kosovo and Metohija. How can one long-term regional co-operation of a country that has not yet defined its borders be defined? That's impossible. Why is the Serbia-Montenegro community in this ungrateful last place in Western-Balkan countries? One of the main reasons is the fact that Europe is aware of more separations ahead, not only of Serbia-Montenegro's communities, the separation of Montenegro or Serbia, but of separation and the separation of some other parts of Serbia. Are we not witnesses that even in the media high-ranking officials in this election campaign to elect the US president publicly say that in 2005, at least what Kosovo and Metohija will get, and in which America will support them, is the Republic of Kosovo and Metohija? Did we not witness that the internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue is taking the first step in order to bring about the recent future and, as the vice president said, only did not apostrolise Vojvodina, but we are all clear if in 2005 it was Kosovo and Metohija, 2006 for Vojvodina? Whether it will be another model or it will be a higher degree of autonomy, everything depends on the structure of the government in the Vojvodina Assembly, because if we leave it to those who have been blackmailing through the province's parliament both the republican parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then it may be for a shorter period. I agree with your surprise, Mr. Labus, and I'm sure it can be at the same time as the story of Kosovo and Metohija. If we release those who have imposed upon us the coat of arms, the flag, the Duke's Academy of Sciences, and they still have a constitution, then it may be before Kosovo and Metohija. It's, for the simple reason, stating facts and causes that don't depend on us. We cannot significantly influence without the help of this very European Union. What are we doing here through this resolution tour? What's being planted? Something that is a condition is being planted and is being defined and defined as a kind of European Union standard, which is the fulfillment of all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and is strongly supported by the view that all persons suspected of crimes committed during the 1991-2000 armed conflict in the territory of the former SFRY are being brought to justice in accordance with positive legal regulations and international obligations. What is this standard? At the very least, what condition is that? Who's prescribing this condition? The European Union? This is not a European Union standard. It is not The Hague nor the Court of Justice of the European Union. The European Union is the transmission of the World Security Council policy when it comes to The Hague tribunal. The European Union is, in particular, a real transmission of the conditions set by The Hague tribunal's public prosecutor, Carla del Ponte, towards Serbia. There is no standard in the European Union. There's no condition. And if it had a condition, the European Union would uniquely come out and say that, after the extradition, the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic, following the surrender of Vojislav Seselj, a voluntary departure, we still have a need for these and those persons, and that ends the conditioning. The European Union has not defined these conditions. She doesn't set these conditions. These aren't her standards. These are the conditions dictated by UN war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte. We are witnessing that from day to day she does not know all the conditions she needs, and these conditions are unfortunately contained in the number of Serbs, Serbian heads to be delivered. What did we come up with? We've come to a situation where, on behalf of these standards and in the name of meeting the conditions of Carla del Ponte, we need to deliver four generals. Four generals who defended Serbia from NATO aggression fulfilled their patriotic and professional obligations. Can anyone here ask what's the next step? What's the next condition? What are the standards that this European Union imposes on us from our mouths or through Carla del Ponte? No one can ask. Why? Because in order to score cheap political points after local elections and at the same time that all Serbian government resolutions and decisions in Kosovo and Metohija are being violated, it proposes a debate on such a single resolution. We are coming into a situation where this Serbia, as it is, in a community with Montenegro, we are moving further and further away from the European Union. Joining the European Union, gentlemen, is not so much dependent on us or on the current government. Isn't it an example for you, for science, for receiving or for joining the Council of Europe? When Serbia was a police state, at a time of emergency, it was admitted to the Council of Europe. That's precedent. It will be accepted when the mood and attitude of the European Union is such that Serbia enters the European Union. Unfortunately, I sincerely fear that Serbia will then be so small that it will be called Belgrade's pasture.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6807	The word has the People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6808	Point 2. of Article 3. Resolutions say the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses its full readiness for respect for human rights and minority rights. It is one of the basic standards of the European Union. And for the sake of information, I will only say that in the European Commission's 2003 report on Serbia-Montenegro's situation, Serbia-Montenegro received a positive assessment in meeting this standard. Unfortunately, it was one of the few positive estimates we got, but in this particular context this positive assessment was given. However, this does not mean that we should continue to advocate respect for human rights and minority rights, because it is not only a European but a civilization standard. It's something that requires constant respect. So, regardless of whether we already respect it, we respect it or respect it. On the other hand, the public should also be reminded that the EU essentially refused to declare itself at the official level, at the level of the Council of Ministers, in a formal sense, on conflicts, so-called. the conflicts in Vojvodina, or the situation in Vojvodina. We have yesterday's resolution of the Council of Europe, which also authorises the mention of meeting the standards as such. It is clear, of course, that at this point we cannot talk about wider international conflicts, we can unfortunately talk about increasing tensions for political purposes, that is, before local elections. However, this only says that if we want both European standards and the European Union, we must work on this ourselves. We have to be serious, first of all. That also applies to our obligations to The Hague tribunal. The UN tribunal is the UN tribunal. It was established by the United Nations and we as members of the United Nations, if on any other basis, and there is a basis in our legislation, we have an obligation to co-operate with that tribunal. Whoever was the prosecutor of that tribunal and we liked that person or not. Besides, if we're talking patriotism, isn't there more patriotism in a particular case than voluntary surrender? Is there no greater patriotism than voluntary surrender in a situation where co-operation with the UN tribunal largely depends on whether we become a candidate for EU membership anytime soon or not? As far as all standards are concerned, throughout the EU accession process and when we become members of the EU, and it is clear that we will become at some point, we will have to respect those standards, not so much for the European Union, but because they are civilization standards and we will respect them for ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6809	Mr. Mircic, MP. On what grounds? Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6810	For accuracy, gentlemen, during last week, representatives of the European Committee on Human Rights were present in Belgrade to see the state of human rights during 2003, particularly during the period of emergency and the take-up of Sabbe's action. We are witnesses, gentlemen, and this needs the public to know that the representatives of the European Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and the Committee of the United Nations knew more about the fate of individuals and the overall state of affairs at a time of emergency than we who are in one or another active participant of political life in Serbia. They have even more information than members of the Serbian government. We are faced with this fact that we must now, subsequently obtaining documents and data, inform the European Committee of what really happened in Serbia. We may be successful if we finally come up with a truth that refers to the state of human rights during the 2003 state of emergency. That's what the public needs to know. As far as these standards apply and related to The Hague tribunal are concerned, don't put individuals who are the UN tribunal's condition in the context of meeting or not fulfilling its obligations to the EU, because it turns out that this is how we say -- yes, the EU is right, is a public prosecutor, until now Serbia has done nothing. She did Serbia, unfortunately, and more than they asked. Then, unfortunately, Serbia represented a coalition that was the result of euphoria, which was called DOS. They delivered both what they needed and what they asked for and what they didn't ask for. They wrote charges, which are now the reason for voluntary surrenders. If you bring in this kind of cynicism, then as Christians, people, humanity must have respect for the courage of those whom the domestic government, then the current government, has sent to The Hague tribunal. For the simple reason that we could go out with arguments and say – Yes, Serbia respected, Serbia delivered, so much has gone voluntarily, what else is a condition, what others have done. And not like this. We didn't respect it like we didn't do anything. It takes more, as if no one had left in the previous period. That should be clear in the resolution to say, let's see where the end is. Is there any end to it?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6811	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, first of all, I would like to say that this resolution that is ahead of us has really been a pleasant surprise to me after this summer's break, because the last time we discussed some resolution in this House, and it was actually a real political pamphlet pre-election, that debate was full of bullets, opposing attitudes and a lot of cheap politics, and it wasn't adopted. That's why this resolution should be and is its opposite, without pathetic, without big words, without conflict. Everyone in this assembly needs and I hope that we agree that Serbia is a place in the European community of peoples, although several speakers deny me. However, no one responsible should think otherwise, nor should they vote against this resolution. Let us make it clear why he's against it, not that we're listening here all the time for excuses. Many say Serbia is already in Europe, mixing geography and political reality. There are also those who like to say something we've been listening to for a very long time, which is that while we've been eating fingers in Europe we've eaten with golden spoons and forks. They make an even worse mistake, they mix up history and political reality. They forget that we have come from golden spoons to rusty and other props with an unfortunate grip of historical circumstances over the centuries but with our mistakes. It's really time to stop making mistakes. It's time to look into each other's eyes and see where we are and where we want to go. The G17 Plus Party and I have always been and will be for this country and its citizens to live a life worthy of the 21st century Europeans, because they are. To live that way, we must respect some standards, adopt and respect some laws, build a relationship of partnership and trust, first with ourselves and then with Europe. We need to learn first of all to respect the state's laws. We must not be saved by those who think they are above the law, who are rich at the expense of the state and its citizens. As such, they should have their place in certain state institutions of the closed type, not to have their televisions, their parties, their newspapers, etc. We have to co-operate with the court in The Hague, which is being conducted here, whether we like it or not, because this whole thing is completely pointless without that co-operation and there are no international relations just like that, some important, some less important. Gentlemen, if we've made any commitments, as important or irrelevant as they may be, we must honor them. There's a lot more we have to do, and we can't. Many do not realize how much that is and how far ahead we are. Let's just mention how many laws we have to comply with the European Union and we have to do it. So as soon as we adopt this resolution, we need to go into the realization of what it says, and this time seriously and sincerely move towards integration into the European Union, because there is no other way. I don't want to believe that my daughter, who doesn't have two months yet, will one day listen to some new MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say the same thing we're talking about today. I want her to be a citizen of Europe and that her memory is not reaching until the day that Serbia and Europe have been talked about a lot and integration into Europe has not worked a bit. We must not do this to our children, and that is why I urge everyone, citizens and institutions to go from word to deed, to watch with our eyes that Serbia becomes a state not because one of them is asking for it, but because we want it to, and then Europe will not be far away from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6813	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6814	Ladies and gentlemen, of course the Assembly has the right to bring various resolutions, declarations and it is not disputed, but it is disputed whether we are proposing a resolution or a declaration from the fact that this resolution can be implemented. Is it up to us and does that resolution respect all the political factors in this country? Unfortunately, I think the experience recently proves to us that this Assembly can adopt whatever resolution you want – it is more for political marketing to those who propose this resolution than for holding and upholding what the Assembly adopts. The last evidence is yesterday's. We have adopted the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija here in parliament, and the President of the Republic does not. He announced a second political stance, he does not care what the Assembly here has adopted when it comes to the resolution, when it comes to relations with Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the way we stand up for it, and I fear that in the same way and now we are acting, that we are proposing a resolution to discuss behind political and marketing reasons here who is for the European Union and who is not, and who is essentially not dependent on us, political factors in the country, what and how will be resolved in the next period when it comes to Serbia-Montenegro's accession to the European Union. When I say it's not up to us, it's not up to this resolution. Yesterday we heard the Deputy Prime Minister that it was 2007 or 2012 and I agree. If this is how we move towards the European Union, which means that we know that Croatia has received 2800 laws and that means that next year, as we heard yesterday, we will get this proposal as much as it is and what the laws are. Let's move on to realising it, let's move on to concrete, not political stories we want to do in Europe. This political story does not mean anything, because no political factor in Serbia, no political party, that we want towards the European Union, but let's see what it really means, what European laws are. We have been listening to rhetoric here for three and a half years about wanting to join the European Union and that we need to coordinate legal projects with European legislation, and on the other hand a year and a half ago we had a law amending criminal law that not only contradicts European legislation but is also the opposite and legislation of Zanzibar or Zimbabwe, the most terrible countries in the world, because we had a law that could allow someone to be in prison for six months without criminal charges. Therefore, the point is whether we as the Assembly, as political partners in Serbia, really want to direct Serbia towards the European Union and to coordinate legal projects or to play here a colorful lie and collect political points by accusing one of them of being for the European Union and others that they are not. Now there are those who are against entering the European Union. It's not up to us. It depends on us in the dynamics we adopt, but we obviously won't. We want to be rhetorical towards the European Union, and we don't want to be essentially in it. So this resolution essentially doesn't matter if we get close to the European Union. Are we closer to the European Union by adopting this resolution? We didn't. Will we be closer one day that we have spent today to adopt the law from the economic sphere or from another sphere, which is also the law of European legislation? We would be closer but we will not do this but want to spend the debate in the Political Discussions Assembly, on political marketing and on representing and proving who is closer and who is further to Europe and European legislation. That story about how Europe accepts us now, so we're pretty, nice, that's not true. We have never had such a harsh resolution by Europe, by the Council of Europe, by the European Parliament, even in the days when they imposed sanctions on us. In 1998 or 1999, when we were bombed, they never used the word crime and atrocities. You remember that the resolution adopted a sentence saying that we committed atrocities in Vojvodina. Neither when we were bombed, nor when the Security Council adopted resolutions and spoke of excessive use of force in Kosovo, it spoke of a humanitarian disaster, never said that someone had committed atrocities in Serbia against other national communities. That's what we got in 2004. We got it in 2003 that we had a violation of all human rights through that strange time, what they called "Sabre." So that's the point, whether we really want to or you want to retortize political points and vote voters. I heard yesterday, and today I hear it's a great patriotism to go to The Hague. It was a great patriotism to go and defend Serbs in Kosovo, so many then fled and slept in their warm beds and did not run to the Serbs to help. Now they run to promise them and explain how nice and nice it is to go to the election. Why didn't they say that a few months ago on March 17th and 18th? That's when they said completely different. Yesterday they spoke completely different. A few months ago in the election campaign, they said that all political factors should be united when we make important state decisions. It's an art of the head of state to unite political factors, not to show that he's nice, handsome, smart. Now, he's courting the West, he's flaunting the West, and we're not good to the West, and here we are not taking good care of the Serbs and the world. We care the same well about Serbia, Serbs and the world, but we worry about getting along and we're ready to coordinate here and accept some members of the law that may not suit us at some point, if they're for the greater good, and not for the political rhetoric that someone here is using. Because this is for political rhetoric, and not for the real approximation of Europe, we are today loosing and discussing a resolution that essentially means nothing, and that's why we have 3,000 laws to adopt by 2007, if we want to think about the European Union at all, and I think that many who talk about reforms don't talk about the European Union and don't want to talk about the European Union, but want to collect small political points. The more they try to collect political points, the less votes for their political parties in boxes. That's what the local elections showed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6815	Here you go, Proposer. I hope you fit in in in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6816	Just two sentences, please be precise and not confuse the citizens of Serbia. I don't want to think it's intentional, but it's already starting to look like it. The term “huge” was used during a discussion at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by a Hungarian MP. I'm sure there's no person in this congregation who doesn't condemn that kind of expression when it comes to relations in Vojvodina. There's no mention of that word in the resolution. Secondly, when it comes to human and minority rights, I remind again, it is the European Commission's report on the state of affairs in Serbia-Montenegro during 2003. That report is available on the website. Look at him and please be precise, European integration means knowledge of facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6817	Here you go. Please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6818	I only have one sentence. Please, I don't think it's right for the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to keep that resolution with them. It is mandatory for all MPs to get the resolution adopted by the Council of Europe, which was the subject of discussion on the Committee, and then we will see what is true. I've read the resolution that the Committee members gave me, and it says very precisely that word, so I ask that we also discuss it, and that we get, as MPs, a document, so that we know what is said about us in Europe, what is true and what is not, and not that we use it for our own personal needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-06-0.u6819	Thank you. We're done with today's work. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session. The next speaker in a row is MP Goran Svilanovic.
