ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5437	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, asked for Article 9. The draft law deletes, i.e. to remain in Article 15(6) and (9). When looking at the points in the basic law, the Proposer asks to delete part of the text, which reads: "Members and contributions to political organisations are not recognised as expenditure in the tax balance". In Article 7, you gave the opportunity to give gifts and contributions to political organisations cannot be shown as a cost, and now you are asking in this Article of the 15th basic law to be deleted. Let's say theoretically, that it remains to give contributions and gifts to political parties not to recognise as expenditure on the tax balance, but to ask the question of membership. How and in what way will someone who is an activist of a political party, the founder of a legal person, pay his membership fee and have the opportunity to display it in the tax balance, and some statutes of political parties are so wide that the membership fee can be for some members of five dinars if there is no money and for some members a million or more. We believe that the proponent of this law wants to advocate that legal persons do not finance political parties, but this bill, when a little bit enters into the essence, shows that there is an opportunity for someone to finance a particular political party in a certain way and to present their funding as a cost in the final account. The second position, which you are asking to delete in the basic law, reads: "If propaganda is done through giving gifts for which it is not a documentary recipient or whose recipient is a connected person within the meaning of Article 59 of this Act, these expenditures are not recognised in the tax balance". This part of the text "or whose recipient is a connected person within the meaning of Article 59 of this Law" may have some basis, but now I ask the question - what if propaganda is performed directly on the spot, in direct contact with the manufacturer - consumer of certain goods of broad consumption. And we are all witnessing that in almost all megamarkets there are two, three or more presentations of certain products every day, where the manufacturer gives its future consumers its products so that, later on, if they are convinced of the quality of this product, they will start using this product. This fact itself is contrary to that law which was only recently discussed, which is a value added tax, because these products are already exempt from value added tax. However, the minister has taken the right to determine how much it can be, which is the problem in general of all the laws that you make, concerning certain provisions in the laws themselves, means that executive power can work in some procedure and beyond the control of the legislative authority. But how can someone now present a product and be exempt from the value added tax for the gift of the product, but that same gift must be shown in the final account as income and on it to pay the tax. The problem is that when you write these laws, don't worry about what you're going to write and come into these situations in the next law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5438	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and the messenger of the people, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5439	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act is indeed one, according to the Serbian Radical Party, a very bad member and gives one bad picture of the whole law, even one that would be acceptable to Serbian Radical Party MPs. That is why we have proposed, fellow MPs of our parliamentary group, the three, different amendments, with the intention of convincing you, since the proposing representative is not there, and we do not miss much, especially after yesterday's final, as the president allowed him to speak after working hours, to state his position, how the wonderful MPs of the assembly majority who can listen to Serbian Radical Party MPs; he obviously cannot and should not. So we have submitted three different amendments, with the intention of convincing you to accept any of these three amendments. They can be viewed alternatively and it would be good for some of them to accept. The amendment tabled by counterpart Igor Mirovic refers to the position of Article 1 and 2 of the 15th basic law, as Article 9 of the Law also applies, and Article 15 of the basic law states that expenditure on health, education, scientific, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes is recognised as expenditure up to 3.5% of total income. We in the SRS think that this percentage should be five, because it is the work that is of paramount importance for the state, i.e. it is necessary for the state to stimulate donations precisely for health, education, science, religious, cultural areas and the rest. We heard here on several occasions the minister says these areas don't make money, and they're funded from the budget. We Serbian radicals think they're making money. To earn a lot more than they actually get as a salary and in every way the state needs to make sure that as much money as possible for these areas, because if we don't take care of health, education, scientific, religious and cultural areas, then I really don't see what the point of the state is, we're not going to take care of anything. We're not just gonna take care of the banking lobby. Of course, I don't mean anything by banks, I mean just financial-banking lobbys that harass Serbia. In the third position of Article 15 of the basic law concerning the amendment of my colleague Mirovic, it is said – expenditure on investment in the area of culture is recognised up to 1.5% of total income. Here we think it takes a percentage to increase and to be 3%. Of course, in the context of spending these funds, we in the SRS have a different view than the ruling majority, but in any case it is necessary to provide as much resources as possible for these areas, that the state shows that it cares about the development of these areas, and not only that if any of these areas strike, unfortunately many already strike, many are announcing a strike, it is not enough for the minister to just come out and say – strike as much as you want, there is no more money. Regardless of the difficult situation in the country, the fact that the economy in Serbia is not working, that everything that can be sold out is sold out, that nothing has changed in relation to the functioning of the DOS government, means, regardless of all the facts that are evident in Serbia, we must not neglect what is really important to us, if for no other reason, then because of the young generations, which are particularly accounted for by people who are employed in areas whose funding, we believe, we need to allocate more funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5440	Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we discussed the 2004 Budget Law, I asked Mr. Minister – where the money of 8.5 billion is going under the terms of the specialized service. I received a reply from the minister that this money from the Republika Srpska budget goes for health, education, science, humanitarian, religious, human environment protection and sports purposes, etc. With this amendment, given what Mr. Minister said at the time, counterpart Mirovic asked on behalf of the SRS, if the state has to allocate so much money, it is better to allow that percentage of 3.5%, as recognised as expenditure, to legal entities and to recognise the 5% expenditure. I think that in that way, at least a little bit we would charge off the budget of an extremely dubious item in consumption, especially if it's not known exactly what this money is for specifically and spent on. It's just a figure of speech, that's all. Who uses it for specialized services, or who's the end-user who gets that money, we still don't know that. And in order to get that item out of the budget, let's let the legal people pay a higher percentage. Perhaps then they themselves will also control those institutions that spend that money and thus the potential for abuse of these institutions will be much less. Now I'm sure that money is going to some useless analysis, some calculations -- what if, for some projects that might start to happen in 50 or 100 years, what happens when the oil goes out in the world. Now, these are the projects where the 8.5 billion dinars are spent, so we don't think the state should worry about that, but so they don't run out of resources and funding to let legal entities finance 5% if they want to. The next position, which is required to be deleted, is the position – expenditure on investment in the field of culture is recognised as expenditure up to 1.5% of total income. We are all aware of the situation of all cultural institutions in the country. And there is another specificity, that the item – specialized services, is not only being put into the budget of the Republic of Serbia but also through the budgets of local self-government. The congregation of municipalities, and that one part of that money is just going to the cultural area, so this amendment requires that the amount be instead of 1.5% to 3%. We count that the control of those who pay that money, to re-pay it, will be better quality and that money will really be used for these purposes, not under some suspicious circumstances to be paid to certain users for some services of which no one has any future benefit at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5442	Thank you. The People's MP Jovan Todorovic came forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have failed to report on the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group to Article 9, so given that the text and this amendment submitted by the SRS are similar, I will only say that it refers to Article 15. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. I think the weakest point of these amendments to the Tax on Profits Act is this particular Article 15. It might be best to delete the entire text of Article 15, because the restrictions provided for in it are simply not logical. They're not economically justified, even from the point of view of budgeting. I was talking about the fact that it's really illogical in the collection to treat environmental costs, aid to sports organisations, health, education, science, humanitarian, religious purposes, and all of this together to be 3.5% of total income, and only then is it taxing a base based on profit tax. When you cross that 3.5% then you treat it as a profit in the corporate tax balance, which is completely unwarranted. The proposer must be well immersed in the essence of this proposal and delete Article 15, or at least accept the SPS amendment, which proposes erasure of positions 1, 6, 7 and 9 and may remain what may be acceptable, which means that expenditure for humanitarian purposes is recognised only if they are carried out through humanitarian organisations registered for those purposes. I can accept that. Yes, when the company performs appropriate humanitarian aid, it is done through appropriate organisations, and it is registered in the balance sheet of success of the company and is not disputed. But if we limit all this together to 3.5% of environmental costs, then we get a consolidation of restrictions that are simply not stimulating, nor to help such humanitarian organisations, sports organisations, etc., nor to do those jobs that are even imposed by the Labour Protection Act on every economic operator, quite justifiable, in order to protect the environment to a greater extent than is the case now. Just to use a few sentences concerning the previous amendment to Article 7 and Article 6. Especially when it comes to Article 6 of the Law, which says that costs are not recognised on the basis of invoiced and unpaid severances and other fees unless they are paid. I warn you, there are a few things here that need to be understood. Sometimes severances happen to workers and the corresponding fees are accounted for at the end of the year, let's say even December 31st. And make payments in February or March, because the liquidity or financial situation of the economic operator does not allow you to make payments in that day. It is said here that these expenditures are not recognised and that is how workers are calculated on the basis of severances, they suddenly become profits that are taxed with 10%. I think it is a problem to implement, unless a deadline is set in which you are to pay compensation and compensation to the employees, so if there is no payment within that period, then it is only natural not to be covered by the tax balance, i.e. in the balance of income and expenditure as expenditure in the business of the company. This was the intention when this amendment was proposed, to limit that time limit to nine months, and thereby to include the entire business year in some way in the story, and it is not possible to get into the account without being paid and to cover it as a cost, i.e. the cost of doing business. If payment is made, it is normal to be covered, and if it is not executed, then it will not be covered. Some deadlines that are suitable for our economic situation and financial situation in enterprises should be set in order to simply start from that deadline when the corresponding control of profit tax returns is carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5444	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't expect the competent minister and the committee to accept this amendment for the simple reason why then Minister Dinkic and the current Minister of Information and Culture would be bound by their hands to do what this law allowed them to do, and what was established during the previous DOS furniture, which you only inherited and you rule absolutely the same, in continuity, the same methods and legal regulations. It was really unacceptable for us to introduce such attitudes and powers to ministers in the field of justice, health care, finance in particular, according to these DOS laws – which you are now like this, nothing fundamental, but in part you are changing – to prescribe certain additional sublegal acts and to make it closer, as the promoter here says, edit the way something is going to be done. Article 9, which was spoken of by Ms Verica Radeta, an MP of Serbian Radicals, and Mr Arsic, was meant to be a real incentive in the right sense of the words for the field of health, for scientific and humanitarian, religious activities, for culture, for humanitarian activities, which were poorly expressed during the previous government, and humanity in part did not show up by a furniture that made it all possible for the people to live much harder. And we didn't expect this law to be, as one of the new DOS MPs here yesterday said, an incentive for employment and investment. The amendment requesting that the position of the 10th member of the 15th law be deleted, i.e. what the cosmetic Dinkic proposes, speaks of the closer regulation of what is considered to be investment in the field of culture by the minister responsible for cultural affairs, according to the Minister of Finance and Economy. Not that it's not acceptable, but it's really one polygon for the abuse of every species. That's what's been done and it's gonna be. I'll remind you only of Branislav Lecic's ministry. He was the culture and information minister in the DOS previous government. The minister, apart from his haughtiness, which he most exhibited during the famous "Sabbe" campaign, punished journalists and media, closed down certain media, exhibited this haughtiness through such a law and similar to it, editing and prescribing, deciding, and of course all of this on the cost of Serbian citizens, what is it, which is the part and which area of culture to invest in. His play "Container", in which he is one container, just like the main players, was promoted to almost all theatres in Serbia. Minister Branislav Lecic, for this service, wanted him to come and introduce himself to a few audiences in a town, approved an example for a theatre in Serbia, 100 000 dinars, not to bid now with the exact sum, and in return asked him to come and visit with his play "Container", which is, in the least, extremely anti-Serbian orientations and has nothing to do with our tradition, nor with Serbian culture, nor with what we represent as a people and, of course, well earned in that place where he received such a form of counterservice. On the other hand, many cultural people who wanted to cultivate what we as a state and people have, our national treasure, to promote the development and education of future generations on truly true and real Serbian traditions, he did not do it and did not want to approve of money for such projects. All because such a law, whoever is a minister, and in the future government, be sure, the culture minister will be one of the Serbian radicals, cannot have such powers, that he determines how much money is given and what is what he considers a priority in the field of culture. It's not only not good for any people, not for any country... (President: Time. I'll finish, Mr. Markovic, I guess you're most interested in culture, so be kind enough to let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5446	Yes, but here I'm interested in the Rules of Procedure. Five minutes and 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5447	So, I'm going to finish this, and I just wanted to say one more word about books and the fact that the previous ministry should have been most interested in speeding up and even investing in the promotion of a national Serbian Bucharest in the right sense of the word. And the capital work of the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", which I see to you all that you have a lot of free time, I strongly recommend that you read in these summer days, because you are not seriously concerned with these legal proposals. As for culture and these powers of ministers, I appeal to MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, to accept this amendment, to delete attitude 10, and that no minister has such authority, so freely available with the funds that are very important for the area of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5448	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, so the MP of the people is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected this position to be erased, as requested by my colleague Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS, but let's read what are the powers that this position gives to individual ministers. So, closer to the regulation on what is considered to be an investment in the field of culture, the minister is brought in charge of cultural affairs, but only according to the Minister of Finance and Economy. I can say that Mr. Dinkic, if he wants to keep this provision of the law, a universal expert, a man understands everything. When you look at value added tax, it's he who's going to decide what prosthetics are, what helped, what is being implanted surgically into the organism, and it's going to be on the list of 8% value added tax, and everything else in the medical field is going to be taxed by 18% of value added tax. Now it's the minister who determines what's in the culture of donations of a particular legal person, so it's a miracle how that man does it all to find out, to do it. Or it's a simple charlatanism, because if he'd looked at a little law, he'd have seen that attitude we'd asked him to erase, says he's a competent finance and economy minister. You could at least agree this last word with the Ministry Act, because the bill itself says Dinkic is the finance minister, and he has no idea about the economy. He only seems to want to skin the people from their backs. He's still out for this pay phone yesterday, and he's saying, what do you want, there's gonna be an 8% tax on the medicine, for those on the positive list, and for those who don't pay 18%. And, as a highlight, in the next item of the agenda, the maltene looks like the MPs, what do you want, if we adopt this law, the doctors won't have to introduce fiscal cash registers. So, patients will have to pay taxes on medicines, and doctors who deal in private practice will decide on their own free will, after they charge the service, whether they report it as income or not. That's what the minister decides and edits.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5450	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5451	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you have already heard, have submitted three amendments to Article 9, i.e. to Article 15 of the basic text. It is enough that we would change, starting with this restriction on expenditure on health, education, science, humanitarian and religious purposes, protection of human environments, sports purposes, which are recognised as expenditure only up to 3.5% of total income, according to the bill. A lot of this has been said by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, and I would now like to pay a little attention to attitude 6 that says that expenditures on advertising, propaganda and representation are recognised as expenditure up to 3% of total income. Such a restriction, of course, there is no place, such a restriction in a civilized Europe, which you are so pleased to call upon, in this form, there is no. There are unclear differences, i.e. the reasons for such a restriction. It is known that much in modern economies depends precisely on advertising campaigns, because you can do anything with advertising. It's not as important as the quality of the product if you have enough money to invest in the campaign, because you can sell everything. The best evidence is the previous presidential campaign, when you managed to sell Boris Tadic to Serbia through the huge funds invested in the ad. If you hadn't had that 40 million and more dinars, you certainly wouldn't have done it. It is also known that every penny invested in the commercial returns multiple times. Economic reasons for such a restriction also do not exist, because if we allow businesses to increase their percentage of their profits to be transferred to advertising campaigns, you would charge 18% of the campaign through these advertising campaigns, after value added tax. Also, traffic, i.e. product sales, would be increased and each new product would be charged another 18%, which would have much greater effects for the budget itself. I still have to remind you, I'm sorry that Mr Markovic left, but at the end of the session last night, a Rules of Procedure was injured, which said that the National Assembly sessions were held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18:00 hours. Mr. Markovic gave the word to Minister Mladjan Dinkic, although it was 1800 hours ago. In that moment, there were 18,00 hours and three minutes, but the chairman gave the floor to Mr Dinkic, gave him the advantage over the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is inadmissible and allowed him to insult the MPs, to say that the MPs of the SRS had no idea what they were talking about and that he could not listen to them. We see that Mr Dinkic is not here today. Clearly, this is a complete disrespect for both the National Assembly and the MPs of the Republic. It is really not correct that Mr Dinkic is not coming here to hear our comments, to offer counterarguments, but to give us a lecture, to insult the MPs, to turn around and leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5452	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic and MP Branislav Rankic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic, but if Rankic shows up as an applicant for the amendment, I thank you for understanding Mr Arsic. So, the word has a folk MP, Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of this bill and it concerns Article 16 of the basic law. Namely, it shall be specified in Article 16 in which the write-off of individual claims can be recognised. It is indicated exactly when the expenditure burden is recognised to be a write-off in the value of individual claims. First, when it is undoubtedly proven that these claims were previously included in the incomes of the debtors. Second, that the claim in the taxpayer's books was written off as non-refundable; and third, that the taxpayer provided evidence of failure to collect those claims by court. This, under the three amendments, I demand that it be deleted for a number of reasons. First, the largest number of those in need of claims will be in a dilemma that is the amount of claim they would ever go to trial for, in order to have court evidence that they failed to collect claims. This will allow those small-time frauds to take a certain amount of money from certain businessmen, i.e. goods, or not to pay it, because they will assess themselves that they will have no reason to sue them, because court costs will be much higher than those claims that exist and they will not dare to take such a step. If these are larger amounts and if a person dares to initiate a court case, he risks taking an inappropriate length of time, given the situation in which the judiciary is located, he also risks the uncertainty of what judgment will be. In the end, if he can collect it, he'll come with a great delay. However, if he decides to write it off, not to conduct a lawsuit at all to collect his claims, then it will be recognised to him as company profits and will be further taxed 10% under the Company Tax Act, so we bring businessmen into a very unpleasant situation. And by erasing this point 3) in Article 16 of the basic law, nothing will change, since the first two points are sufficient to guarantee that no one has the desire to collect their claims if they can, and in the first two ways it can prove that something is non-refundable, that it is not able to charge, that they are denied on the burden of expenditure. However, if MPs who support the majority have the courage to vote in favour of this amendment, I would suggest they vote, because there will be plenty of positive effects under this law if they adopt it. If you do not have the courage, since when the law earlier, followed by the finance minister, changed the essence with several amendments, he was returned to the Assembly after ten days, so you had to move forward to change your mind. If you don't think you're going to have to go back on this law for a few days now, even though you have such relations in the coalition, I would suggest you vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5454	I thank Parliamentarian Branislav Rankic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5455	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS by MP Branislav Rankic, or the government's authorised representative, was rejected by Mr Dinkic, and therefore not accepted by the Finance Committee. This proves that the government only cares about how it will fill the budget, no matter what damage the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all legal entities in the Republic of Serbia will have. This amendment requires the new Article 16 paragraph 1 point 3 to be deleted, which states that if a taxpayer wants to write something off as a non-refundable claim, he must provide evidence of the failure to collect those claims by court. I would just like to warn the MPs, before they vote on this amendment, that before anyone decides to exercise any right through a trade court, because this is about legal persons, the most common court is trade, they will have to wave their pockets well to pay the court fees, which you have increased five and more times since October 5th. The promise of many political parties now forming the government of the Republic of Serbia is whether judicial and republican taxes should be reduced. That promise has nothing to do with it. The fees are left. In order to initiate any dispute, you first need to pay a fee, you have to pay a fee for work and a lawyer, to file a certain number of submissions, to look for court-laws, which are and how expensive they are, to finally get a verdict, on which the other party is likely to file a complaint, so you will have to write a reply to the appeal, which is also a taxi driver, until a senior court finally decides that the one who sought protection from the court had a full right. So then the execution procedure takes place, the executive department has to apply for the enforcement of a judicial verdict, and then go to the court's place, and later, if the person to whom it is due to be charged resists, the police's assistance should be paid again, which is paid by the one who asks to be protected by the court, etc. A man who once gets into all this asks a question of any purpose -- whether he's going to sue or not, or simply forgive that money. Now, the state is making him give up on unfair partners in a certain way, by only showing evidence of a failure to pay for a claim, or to write it off as non-refundable and to show it in the final account as a expense and to be exempt from corporate tax. That's the problem. It seems to me that this government, as well as the previous one, has the only goal to fill the budget, so that they can buy the latest cars of Audi A8, so that they can go around the white world, so that they can make sure that someone is flying on the Azurn coast, in the Canary Islands, that they might go to raise money from the Virgin Islands. That is why the budget is being filled, not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you insist. If you were a little more careful about the money you spend, much more would be left for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5456	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Faith of Radeth, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5457	Article 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act refers to Article 16 of the basic law. The promoter has amended this 16th basic law and this amendment could remain, provided the amendment tabled by SRS MP Branislav Rankic is accepted. The proposal is to delete point 3 in paragraph 1 of this Article, which states that the burden of expenditure is recognised to be the write-off of the value of individual claims, other than the claim laid down in Article 7a(2) of this Act. That point 3 says -- "the taxpayer provides evidence of failure to collect these claims to court. "We in the SRS believe that this is a completely pointless provision, that it is unnecessary for taxpayers to be referred to the court under conditions that await them in court, primarily court fees are too high and we talked about when you increased court fees, we talked about what it means for all people who are interested in seeking justice in court. We were then explained that court fees are increasing to raise salaries for court officials. In the meantime, it didn't happen, so then we already had a strike on the court's notice, and a general strike is announced, precisely because their salaries are small, and indeed they are. The judiciary is about a salary of 7-11,000 dinars, and also these people know, employees of the judiciary, that court fees are increased to raise their salaries, and then they have problems with those who pay taxes because they can't pay taxes, and then they have to send warnings, and then the job costs more than the tax would have been if it hadn't been increased, which was a proposal by the SRS parliamentary group. This is one of the evidence that everything we suggest is really meaningful and that it really needs to be accepted, because later on you have problems, it happened with these before you, it happens to you, too, whenever you don't accept some of our amendments, it's going on in your head. The second reason why we think this amendment should be adopted is the length of the court proceedings. Indeed, it loses the meaning of this provision if a court case is used as long as the proceedings normally take place. Here are some drastic changes in the judiciary, depolitisation, decriminalization. What's the consequence? Serbia's High Court of Justice personally cheered Serbia's public yesterday that Goran Kljajevic is again the president of Belgrade's Trade Court. It's really something that's unacceptable. Surely this parliament, the committee responsible and the competent ministry would have to deal urgently with the Great personal council, because if Goran Kljajevic comes back, with everything he is burdened with, to be president of the Trade Court again and to laugh at the public of Serbia yesterday from the Media Centre, then it is indeed a disaster. We also had the opportunity here to hear the minister of justice, who is a member of the High Council of Justice, to agree with all that SRS MPs have been saying about this Goran Kljajevic, and I see that yesterday he did not report on this truly tragic decision by the Serbian Supreme Court. Now I have one problem – if a government official did not accept, apparently he was no longer interested in the amendments, as they came from the SRS MPs, he said his opinion yesterday after the end of the working time of this assembly, but it would be really good, what is a business obligation, to have the Government's opinion here on our amendments. If I knew for what reason the Government refused this amendment of ours, I'd probably be able to take this point because I can't believe the government refused the amendment, and whatever reason it gave, it has to be some incomparable explanation, given that this is a very meaningful and very constructive amendment. Dear colleagues, I expect that you will at least consider it in the day to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5458	I thank the People's Councilman, Vereca Radeti. The People's MP Goran Jocic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the proposed Article 10 refers to an existing Article of the 16th Law, which was submitted by our MP, Mr Rankic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It is said in point 3 of point 1 above that the taxpayer provides evidence of failure to collect these claims by court. It is, in fact, that small businesses avoid going to court when it comes to claims, because court proceedings persist, fees are paid. It happens that these claims can't be charged, then small businesses avoid doing so in court when it comes to small amounts. It's like the bill promoter didn't work in business or trade. Therefore, in this regard, the majority of the congregation should accept this amendment and, at the same time, even if the economy, which is in a very difficult situation, and small firms, which affect this situation most, should still be spared and have little opportunity to make their expenditures come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5460	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5461	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment to Article 10 was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic and asked to intervene in Article 16 of the basic text, by removing it in point 3. What's this about? Article 16 determines which expenditures will be recognised in the write-off of the value of individual claims, under the condition that: 1) "to prove beyond all doubt that those claims were previously included in the incomes of the debtors", which is logical; 2) "that this claim is written off in the books of the taxpayer, which is also logical; and point 3), which the representatives and MPs of the SRS disagree with, says "the taxpayer provides evidence of the failure to collect those claims by court". All those who once worked in both the judiciary and the trade court know that, in order for a claim to be made in a judicial manner to be unrequited, necessary, first of all, is a lot of resources. It is necessary to hire a lawyer, file a complaint, wait a few months for the first hearing to be scheduled, provided that the court manages to call an orderly debtor. In this preparatory process, until the first statement of the taxpayer regarding a claim, it can take a year, two days. If the debtor recognizes his debt immediately, it still takes some time for the verdict to be made, to be expedient, to reach out to the debtor and the trustee, that they receive that verdict neatly again, and then the most difficult part comes to execution. So, the trustee who has a legitimate executive verdict that someone owes him something, only then takes a thorny course of execution, tries to find a jury account of the debtor, possibly his office, to confiscate some chair or table, and thus try to make his claim. However, this largely does not produce results. The way to a court case of a financial claim is extremely long, the fees are high. It's something I wouldn't recommend to anyone. When it is also known that these claims should be made or not announced through the Trade Court in Belgrade, and we heard what the minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia – Stojkovic thinks of the President of the Trade Court Goran Kljajevic, who was suspended on the basis of the decision of the Grand Personal Council of the Supreme Court. We also heard what Mr. Goran Kljajevic thinks of another minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the legislator of this law, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who said last night that the return of Goran Kljajevic to the office of President of the Trade Court in Belgrade is a twilight of the Serbian judiciary. Then the question arises why Mr Dinkic sends citizens of Serbia and taxpayers into the twilight zone. Why do you continue to insist that taxpayers exercise their rights through Goran Kljajevic and why you insist that the claims, which take four, five or six years to issue a court non-refundable, are previously accounted for in the company's profit tax. This is really incomprehensible. I think the minister's moral obligation would be, especially after his statements yesterday, as well as after Minister Stojkovic's statement, to accept this amendment to the SRS and certainly make life easier for both citizens and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5462	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5463	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard one presentation of Serbian Radical Party MPs, I know that this is not an assessment of the work of all judges, especially not an evaluation of the work of the Trade Court. However, this statement by the SRS turned out to be about the assessment our minister gave for the work of the courts. So the courts are "the twilight zone." So they're not the twilight zone. It was said to be a particular judge, who was specifically returned to a concrete court, and that should not have happened. So, both G17 plus and Minister Dinkic, of course, thought of a concrete judge, on a specific case, and not all courts. The courts are doing their job, and it's good for citizens to address the courts, just to protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5464	Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the amendment to Article 16 submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Sarovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not true, of course, that I have made any mistake about what Minister Dinkic said about the President of the Trade Court, Goran Kljajevic. All the electronic media transmitted it, and all the daily newspapers did. Here I will read to you what "Nacional" says; Finance Minister Dinkic, on the suspension of Goran Kljajevic's suspension: "The scandal and the twilight of the judiciary -- Republic Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, estimated that the decision of the Serbian Supreme Court's grand personal council to abolish the suspension of the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, Goran Kljajevic, represents a scandal and the twilight of the judiciary. If someone does not deserve to be the judge of no court in Serbia, then it is Kljajevic, Dinkic said in the Serbian Parliament. Dinkic said the domestic judiciary's problem is corruption at all levels and that the corrupt are protecting each other. We can expect everything because there is a judiciary independent of the executive authority, but depending on the financial powers, Dinkic said and announced that his party would launch an initiative to pass a constitutional law that would provide for the re-election of all judges." I think even though it is extremely clear what Mladjan Dinkic said about Goran Kljajevic, this is the most brutal mix of the executive authorities in the court. Who is Mladjan Dinkic to comment on whether anyone is capable, decent or good enough to be a judge or president of any court? I know G17 plus advocates revolutionary justice. I know you're in favour of judicial dependence on the executive authority, but, gentlemen, a democratic Europe in which you wish to introduce us explicitly requires that the judicial authority be independent. The judiciary can only suffer the minimal influence of the legislative authority during the election and discharge of judges and public prosecutors. The Serbian Radical Party has advocated that the post of deputy public prosecutors also be permanent, that all those who carry out their job in a high-quality manner and in accordance with the law do not have to suffer from any current, or any of the future governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5466	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word about article 16? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5467	Dear People's MPs, the previous replica is in some way related to this amendment and to Article 17. The draft amending the law provides for a title above Article 26a, as well as members of 26a-26k to be deleted. The title reads: "Debts profits, matching expenditures, harmonising incomes and capital losses and bank and other financial organisations". The reasons for this Article are that the proposed amendments are only given because international accounting standards, as well as for all other undertakings, i.e. legal entities, should also be applied in the context of profit-finding banks. No other explanation has been given. But these members who were wiped out probably had a basis. Why, otherwise, in the basic text of the law, 12 members were particularly regulated in determining income, profit, loss and other financial organisations. Putting into the same position of the companies that are in production, given the difficult conditions of production, production organisation, production realization, collection and acquisition of profits at the end of the year, and with one rate of 10% of the production companies equated with banks and financial organisations - on behalf of the SRS and this amendment, I believe that there is no point in making any sense. According to the Banks Act, the establishment of banks, their work and control should be done by the National Bank of Serbia. Unfortunately, from the destruction of four major banks in January 2002 to the present day in Serbia, there has been a lack of syaset banks. It's not known on what basis they're nikla, how they spread their business network and what their real activity is. Looking at the state of the citizens, the difficult economic situation, and especially the social situation, over a million unemployed, at least 500,000 workers who do not receive salaries or receive minimum wage, pensioners, what is the savings in these banks? But when you look at them rising, which is a luxury, which is a business space, which cars drive -- we have nothing against employees in newly established banks and business units, but the financial lobby and the financial mafia seem to have had an impact here, to delete these provisions, not to apply special provisions, so that in some way and through the profits of these banks, their work is controlled and legitimate business established. There are now 34 business units in the King's bank. Of course, they're all private banks. Their action is not known what it is. When you look off the street, you see that there are no savings, there are probably no committees related to loans, guarantees and other -- the question of what are these business units doing at all? In addition to these 34 new business units, the only new casinos are still open. The narrow center of the Kings is now flooded with luxury business units of banks and casinos. The bankruptcy that was launched in 2002 and the bankruptcy manager of this four bank is the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Banks Banks. To this day, he has given no result to the eight and more thousands of workers who have been evicted from these banks. Their rights have been denied. In addition to the exorcism from banks and the termination of employment, neither was the rest of the personal income paid nor the severance of the workers who went into retirement, and unfortunately the moving assets from these banks were acquired. Workers' resorts from these banks, which workers have made throughout Serbia and even on the Montenegrin coast, have been torn apart from their personal incomes and regressions. The work of the Agency, i.e. the bankruptcy manager of these four banks, is also responsible for the National Bank, in particular the group G17, which established this agency in fact. Looking at all this, the financial mafia is in fact seeking to put these 12 members out of control of the business of these banks, which are not, in fact, banks in the interests of citizens and the economy of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5468	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 17 shows the wish of the promoter, or intention, for whom he works. In fact, all legal entities have to give up the risk-related costs other than banks. However, the minister did it shyly when he deleted Article 26e. The bill, which says: "The burden of expenditure on the tax balance is recognised to increase the special security reserve from potential losses, established in accordance with the NBJ rules, as the difference in the amount of this reserve at the end and beginning of the tax year, i.e. during the period of drawing up the tax balance". It's a special reserve. However, there is one reserve that banks, in order to work at all, must deposit at the NBS. It's being deposited, and they can show that reserve as a cost in their final account. In line with how they run the business year or how they intend to run it, they are obliged to respect only a minimum, and can be paid more as a reserve in the NBS than provided for in the regulations. Here's how you do it most often. If a bank wants to buy a company for cheap money, at the same time to avoid paying taxes, it will give the company, which is going to privatise but is in a difficult financial situation, certain loans. Whether they are short-term or long-term, everything depends on the business policy of the bank and the assessment of when the company will enter privatisation or bankruptcy. You can do it on one condition and on another condition. Finally, the bank buys the company, part of the money she gave as a loan serves to purchase company purchases, and then registers it in its accounting books as unpaid or immediately prior to privatisation, and that amount of the reserve he had in the NBS withdraws, i.e. puts it into effect, means that he can dispose of it at his own free will and book as a cost. Now, that's the difference where other legal entities are put in an unfavourable position with bankers. The only thing you can do with this law, with this 10% reduction, is attract foreign banks to Serbia. Foreign banks, because they made you a vacuum by destroying domestic banking. Foreign banks, which place loans of 4, 5 or 6% in their countries and in Serbia place 12%, with a fixed rate, up to 17%, with a recalculated rate, allegedly due to some risks, due to inflation, loss, etc. The fact is, once a month, there is a revaluation of the basic debt. They tie it to the euro, not to lend credit in foreign currency, but to dinars. The value of one loan per year is about 30% to 35%, and foreign investors are free to forget about creating new plants or expanding legal entities. Because as you expect someone to invest in our economy and hire citizens of Serbia, that someone from the European Union, when you double-crossed them 190.000 tons of sugar, sold 600 kilos of drugs, robbed German banks in the privatisation of Sartide. How do you plan to attract foreign investors? The only one who will benefit from this is foreign banks, private banks, who think that the mixers in privatisation and bankruptcy, which was the case between Delta Bank and Pecabeta, which privatized "Pekabetta" through credit, based on many of the actions and shares that were printed, without any tender, contrary to the Privatisation Act. It was only tomorrow that it came to the paper that Miskovic said – from now on I am the owner of "Pekabete". Well, by law like this, you're actually promoting such cloudy actions in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5470	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5471	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment requires the removal of Article 19. This article refers to Article 29 of the basic law. Such a member shall determine the purchase price of the immovableity in determining the capital gain. In order to explain this, I will return to Article 28, where capital gains are determined and how they are determined. The second point of view of this Article states that the capital gain is the difference between the sale price of the property and its purchase price. This difference is taxed. Article 29 of the existing law defines how the purchase price of assets used to determine capital gains is determined. Article 29(1) states: "For the purpose of determining capital gains, the purchase price, within the meaning of this law, is the price at which the obligor acquired the property, reduced by depreciation, or increased on the basis of revaluation until the day of sale, in accordance with the rules governing accounting. "So, the first position of the existing law allowed a reduction in the purchase price based on depreciation, but also an increase based on the revaluation for each year to which the taxpayer owns the property. Revalorisation is carried out for the purpose of harmonising with inflation or rising prices to a small or increasing cost of life. In this 1st position, the promoter made an intervention, so he deleted the possibility of increasing the purchase value for the revaluation provided for by the existing law. The intervention was also made in the final position of Article 29 where the existing law allowed the purchase price to be increased for some other reasons. This view reads: "The sale of real estate rights corresponds the purchase price referred to in Article 1 to an increase of: 1) of investment maintenance costs; 2) the cost of improving the immovableity in the form of additional investments in order to increase capacity, i.e. to improve the quality or change of purpose, by recognising those costs at the cost of purchase at the level of real investments revolving until the day of sale in accordance with the costs to be regulated by accounting. "This existing solution is logical. All that the taxpayer invests in adaptation, as an investment in order to increase the value, in order to perform the immovable property function he owns, must be included in the increase in the purchase value. The promoter now wants to erase all that. The applicant shall, therefore, delete the possibility of revaluation in paragraph 1 which increases the cost of the assets and the possibility of increasing the purchase price by investment maintenance or investment to improve the quality of the real estate that the obligor owns. We believe that what the promoter has offered here is unacceptable, that many taxpayers will be damaged by this, because now the difference between sales and purchase prices will be much higher than it is under the existing law, which will make the basis for the tax account much higher and of course, the bonds will have an obligation to pay significantly higher value on the basis of this tax, which again suggests that the promoter only wanted to fill the budget, to make income in the Republic of Serbia's budget, without paying attention to the taxpayers. I think we should think carefully about this amendment, that this existing solution in the existing law is quite correct, quite acceptable and that it should be kept. So we should adopt this amendment. I wish there was a proposal to explain it to us a little bit. I may be wrong, but sound logic and common sense point to this as I explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5472	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jován Todorovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5473	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 38. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act refers to Article 64 of the basic law. According to the Government's proposal, this article is amended and read as follows: "The taxpayer who starts his duties in the course of the year is obliged to file a tax application within 15 days of the day of enrolment in the register of the competent authority. "It's okay and it should stay that way. However, here we have attitude 2 that says, "In the tax returns from Article 1, the debtor gives an estimate of income, expenditure and profits for that year." The SRS parliamentary group believes that this position 2 must be deleted and in this sense, our colleague Petar Jojic has submitted an amendment to this article, because it is unrealistic, I would say, even impossible, to expect the taxpayer to assess income, expenditure and profit at the beginning of the work. This would be impossible in some stable economy and in a stable state, and in Serbia, in the state in which it is now, it is simply impossible and it is absolutely pointless and insane to make a commitment in this way to do something that is contrary to common sense. He can write one of his visions, some of his wishes, but it's completely pointless, because it's impossible to be something that's real. Again, I must return to my remarks, which I had when I spoke of the previous amendment, that the government's opinion is missing here. It's missing because I expect the government to convince us by some argument that we're wrong. In this case, even, and probably not, it wouldn't be like that, and it's obvious that the government is thinking the same thing that we have proposed with our amendment. Because you have a page eight explanation. The government says that Article 38 provides for a new deadline within which the taxpayer, who is entitled to tax exemption, submits a tax application and a tax balance – 15 days from the date of expiry of the tax exemption, since the deadlines in the existing law relating to the submission of a business account, in particular during the year, are not applied due to the amending accounting rules. Whoever read the bill and the reasoning, who saw the amendment of Mr Jojic, then apparently saw that the government only explained in its explanation the position of Article 1 of Article 38, or Article 64 to which Article 38 applies. That's exactly what we in the SRS parliamentary group say, that attitude one should remain and must remain. Paragraph 2 must be deleted, and if the government had had an overexplanation as to why someone wrote this point 2, then we could certainly read it in the context of the Government's proposal. The government did not mention this position of Article 38 at all in its reasoning, so it is as if by mistake this position 2 was in the draft of this law at all. So we suggest that exactly the way I've explained you're thinking, or to look at it, to make sure that exactly what I've stated about this member is that you accept the amendment to Article 38 to delete Article 2, that the first attitude remains because it has to stay. And let's really take this work seriously, let the laws that come out of this Parliament be meaningful, serious, applicable. Do not follow the path of the previous government, which has persistently proposed laws that are inadmissible. We were saying they're inapplicable, so only when everyone realizes they're inapplicable. This attitude 2 whose erasure we're looking for is inapplicable. So I ask you to vote in voting day to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5474	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5475	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will read the text the Proposer asked to delete, and then the new text. The first says: "A newly established legal person is obliged to file a tax application no later than 15 days from the day of registration in the register, in which he will give an estimate of income and expenditure by the end of the first financial year." The part of the text is deleted and a new text reads: "The taxpayer who starts his work in the course of the year is obliged to file a tax application within 15 days of the day of enrolment in the register of the competent authority. In the tax application referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the obligor gives an estimate of income, expenditure and profits for that year." This is what our people would say, not necks, but good. These are the reforms and differences, the fundamental difference between the previous and this government. However, to say that this first position makes sense, but the second position of the bill absolutely makes no sense. It is required of a newly established legal person who starts with his activity to submit an estimate of income and expenditure within 15 days of enrolment in the register, so that the tax administration may, on the basis of the income and expenditure to be assessed, grant a person a fee to pay tax on company profits. The taxpayer, who is essentially still in charge, is starting to acquire equipment, material, raw materials, goods, and still not all of his investments have begun to fertilize, to return, but you are already asking him to give you an estimate of his income and expenditure, so that you can tax him as soon as possible, and that is the only reason this item 2 is written. Obviously, none of those who wrote these laws have ever gone through the logic of any businessman, how one such attempt can be made pointless, so can you run against anyone any responsibility, so any responsibility, if they wrote that they would have a turnover of 10 dinars, that the price difference would be one dinar, that the costs would be 90 money, and they would get one dinar. And that's why you're going to write him solutions to pay for 12 months of donations on a 10-dollar payout. I'd love to see who wrote that solution. So, if one who wrote these laws had any use of the head and brain, he could predict that the first tax application was based on the incomes and expenditures that a legal person had, whether in the first six months of the year he began to perform his duties, or perhaps in the other six months. Is it going to be quarterly for three months, if someone were to use their head, he would write it like that, not as some who go out for this pay phone, so-called. Experts, and then they start to talk all kinds of things about the law, and when it comes to the application of those laws, then you see the consequences of those laws, and only then do you see that the MPs of the SRS were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5476	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5477	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to Article 40. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, where I ask that Article 66 be deleted, because it is clear that it only complicates the administration. By law, we would have to introduce that the other payments are also made with the reports, and not only in this article, where payment is required on the addition, or on the difference which is not initially paid, so it is clear from the very proposal for this law that the proposer's intention is seen. It is good that this law says that the company's profit tax will be reduced, but the proposing's intention is seen here, because who in Serbia is doing business with the profits, which companies, which are literally destroyed in these three years. The locks and chains were placed on these companies, and those companies are operating with profit -- only tycoons in Serbia. And that is where the rights of the proponents of this law and the finance minister are seen, because it is known that, immediately after the formation of the government, the party to which the minister belongs under his authority took all the financial flows in Serbia. And when they saw their popularity fall after the last elections in Serbia, in fact that in the next elections they have no chance of crossing the censorship, then they see the situation of tycooning in Serbia, of passing laws that correspond to these people, and thus this bill is in that direction where they will only be able to increase the profits of these people and rich people in Serbia in some way. And those who do not show profit and where businesses are destroyed, this law will not help. I ask this amendment to delete this member, not to complicate the administration for the surrender of the final account, and therefore I ask one more MEP to vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5478	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is obviously the Minister's wish to prove to be strict, to take care of how his tax administration works, or maybe he wants certain jobs to be done by the tax administrations to carry on with the taxpayers. So, the applicant for the amendment Igor Becic, and the amendment was submitted on behalf of the SRS, tied it first to Article 66, which says: "If the taxpayer paid less taxes in the form of an advance tax than he was obliged to pay under the obligation of the tax return, he is obliged to pay the difference at the latest until the tax application is filed. In paragraph 3, which we asked to delete, it reads: "With a tax application, the taxpayer is obliged to submit evidence of the payment of the tax difference set out in Article 2(2) of this article. "It also has to do with the previous amendment and it was a discussion, concerning a less paid tax on the basis of an advance made by the Republic tax administration to a legal person, and it should pay for some profit it will make at the end of the accounting year. 1What surprises here is that the legislator requires that the difference that has been paid be documented, to provide proof that someone has fulfilled that tax obligation. If we were to use this practice, then we'd have to add all possible tax payments, and there are more, because now we're going to have a value added tax based on two rates, so 8% and 18%. So far, we've had a tax on financial transactions. He will remain in force until the end of this year. We have a tax, which is the subject of this law, on the profits of the company and the minister asks to be provided with proof of payment only as a difference that someone based on some of their misjudgement or better business in that year than in the last one had to pay. Then it would be logical for all payments to be made to the IRS. Not only that, then provide for the law to send a copy of the bill to the tax administration and the calculations of the manufacturer, the service, the retail, the tax administration, that people are doing something there. Because obviously if someone wrote something like this, they don't know that they've been used in the tax administration before, then the republican public revenue administration, the codes by which the taxpayer was marked and all payments went through a model called a call to a number, and they knew exactly what kind of tax he paid on the basis of the party on which that amount was paid, for which month and for which year it was paid. Now you've gone a little further, so you've introduced a tax identification number. So that you can control your payments anywhere, regardless of what the tax administration sub-organisation is, wherever it is, you can control the taxpayer through the FIB, all of his tax returns on any basis, and then the difference he has to pay on the basis of the tax he paid as an advance to the real tax he made during a business year. So, the promoter of this amendment should have accepted, because if anything else, if you decided to skin tax bonds with your back, various tax laws, at least cut their administrative costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5480	Thank you. On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 40. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax was submitted by MP Igor Bečić and this amendment requested that Article 66 intervene on the basis of the basic text, by deleting Article 3. Article 63 says that the taxpayer is obliged to pay less tax in the tax return for the tax period for which the application is made, if the taxpayer has paid less tax in the form of an advance than he was obliged to pay, he is obliged to pay the difference at the latest until the tax application is made. It is then followed by paragraph 3 which is disputed, in the SRS' view, and which should certainly be deleted, which says that, with the tax application, the taxpayer is obliged to submit evidence of the payment of the tax difference set out in Article 2(2) of this Article. Such an obligation, in the case of tax advances, to prove that the taxpayer has paid this difference, does not exist. Then it is unclear why a taxpayer who regularly registers corporate tax, who regularly pays all previous advances and who is not asked to submit specific evidence for these payments, why he is not trusted in the payment of this difference, which essentially makes only a small part. Because you, if you pay the advance, rarely when you get a significantly higher profit than planned and thus you will very rarely have to pay a significantly higher amount at the end, after the final reckoning, compared to the advances you get. In this way, the only thing that will be done is that there will be a further more complicated tax procedure, that the tax administration will be growing, that entrepreneurs will need much more time to calculate taxes to monitor all of this and to deliver to the tax administration. It should also be said that this third position is completely unnecessary because the tax administration, based on the tax identification number of the famous PIB, can and must control all payments of any taxpayer. So based on the PIB, the tax administration can control any payment, on any basis. Then it is completely illogical to burden a taxpayer, who is thus burdened with many other obligations, even this obligation. What you should also know is that this member, in addition to being associated with the previous member of 64, is also associated with a member of 47 who is prescribed fines of 100 – 600,000 dinars. We think it should be avoided, but I'll say more about it when the amendment is made to Article 47. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5482	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5483	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the position of the SRS is that if someone commits any tax offence, it should be regulated by one law and that only by that law is that person who committed a tax offence. This amendment is in line with that position of the SRS and we have requested that the criminal provisions provided for in Article 112 of this Act be deleted. Here, according to the bill, the debtor will pay a fine of 100-600,000 dinars if he does not bill and pay the tax if he does not provide the tax authority with a balance, unless he submits a tax balance within the prescribed period or if he does not pay the tax difference within the prescribed time limit, etc. Now if we look at Article 177. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, we will see that the person of the taxpayer who does not file a tax application prescribed by the tax law will be punished for a fine in the amount of double to 20 times the tax amount established in tax control. Well then, the tax fine referred to in Article 1 will be fined by a taxpayer who does not file a tax return; well, a tax payer who does not file a tax return after the expiry of the time limit prescribed by the tax law; and then a fine will be fined by a tax payer who does not file a tax return at the end of the period in cases where the law stipulates that self-taxation should not be applied, etc. So, in the Tax Code, you've already provided for criminal provisions, maltenes for all tax offences. If you want something, do the amendments and the additions of the law, not to reintroduce in that law so that a person in one infringement procedure, for the same offence, will pay two fines, one under the Company Tax Act and another punishment under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Yesterday we read the provisions of this law, how the costs of carrying out this procedure are implemented, and they are carried out by increasing the tax liability by a special one-off tax for the mandatory payment of the tax of 5% of the amount of taxes due and the unpaid taxes due and attributing to the principal debt on the day of the start of the mandatory payment procedure. If the taxpayer pays the tax liability in the mandatory payment procedure, it shall not be released from the payment of a one-off fee, etc. You now have the costs of the procedure and the costs of the forced payment, and the penalties on one basis for the same act, and the penalties on another basis for the same act. So, the best thing would be, and I don't think even some big changes in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act need to be made, all of this solved by one law and by the people for the same offense punishable once and not more times. Or to choose which law is more rigorous and to impose more punishments on him, and may also be a judge for violations, which in this case is also a worker of the tax administration, and he is the one who determines the penalties, according to someone to determine the same violation of the law by which he will be punished and to be where the penalties are greater, and if his friend, to determine some other law that regulates the same matter, where the penalties are less. In any case, this should be deleted and regulated by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5484	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 47, which was submitted by counterpart Igor Mirovic, in fact, refers to Article 112 of the basic law, since we are already discussing amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act the second day. It's probably one of the problems why we have to change this law and what we're talking about is amendments and additions to the law, so the government, as a pronoun, didn't get a good look at this whole matter. We assume that this would be better done if the government had defined itself as a completely new text of the law. Article 112 of the basic law refers to criminal policy. This includes a member of the 47th amendment to the law, whose erasure of counterpart Mirovic asked for an amendment. Two basic reasons why we of the SRS believe it is necessary, or necessary to delete this member. The first that criminal policy is already regulated by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Indeed, there is no reason, nor have we heard from the proposing representatives, nor from colleagues, that the same person, the same debtor for the same offence, is punished twice. That's inappropriate. I think even the Serbian Constitutional Court would have a lot to discuss, if it were to question the constitutionality of these and these provisions that have become the manners of the new Kostunica government. Another reason why this member should be deleted is an inappropriate increase in fines. First of all, the law whose amendments and additions are proposed by this law was passed in 2001. It was brought in by Doss' regime. It was changed in 2002 and 2003. The penalties provided for in the basic law: the minimum penalty for one offence is 2,000 dinars and the largest 200 thousand dinars. With these amendments, you're proposing the lowest penalty of 100,000 dinars and the highest of 600,000 dinars. One really logical question arises – do you confirm with this proposal what Serbian radicals have been saying for four years after this pay phone, which is that there has been a drastic collection of goods of broad consumption every day, a drastic collection of services, and that you are monitoring these gatherings with criminal policy, which are daily met by citizens of Serbia. What else is interesting here? You've increased the minimum fine of 2,000 dinars to 100,000 dinars, which means you've increased it 50 times. You've increased the maximum fine of 200,000 dinars to 600,000 dinars, which means three times. It would be really good to be explained here what motivation is at stake. If the penalty has been increased, then I guess it was logical to at least increase the lowest and the highest penalty, or it was something else. Who does the Serbian Government actually protect? Does he protect small entrepreneurs? Small businessmen with less resources - obviously not. Or it protects those who have a lot of money, since it makes sense that whoever has more money, by the logic of business, will commit a greater offense, so he will pay a bigger penalty. So the government protects those who have a lot of money, so their criminal policy only increases three times, and those who have much less, their criminal policy increases 50 times. That's not a good way to go, that's not a good way to go, and that's what's going to be a quick break on the head of the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5486	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47 of the Law amending the Law on Profit Tax and on behalf of Article 112 of the basic law, which was passed in 2001. And if it were to be considered exactly what the promoter said, that this law wants to encourage economic development and that it wants to help small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs in the work that it regulates the problem and the area, it seems to me that in the criminal provisions it is completely different to reflect, i.e. a completely different intention. As was the case in the value added tax law, one article provides that if a tax identification number is not registered, the economic operator will be sanctioned by a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars. The PIB initially meant that it would be easier to communicate with tax authorities. This is not true, however, because from day to day, taxpayers, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as owners of independent trade and other crafts activities, are constantly increasing the obligations they need to meet in terms of correspondence, in terms of the submission of certain reports. As is the case with applying for a tax on financial transactions, although every entrepreneur or small commercial or craft shop has a contract with the business bank, that the bank will automatically operate and execute it, but sometimes for some small businesses small financial amounts, because their size of business is small, so the tax on financial transactions is also low. If by the 10th month of the previous month he does not submit that application to the IRS, he will be sanctioned by very high penalties, as anticipated here among other things. Economic operators should be assisted in this way. Serbian radicals argue to introduce order, to introduce discipline in business, but surely we cannot accept such high criminal measures, which are not related to the failure to comply with their financial, or essential obligations, but rather to some paperwork, for some documents to be submitted. And since we already have a PIB, then the tax administration, that is, part of the Ministry of Finance, could thus intervene, that is, to some knowledge, especially if there are accounting centres where it can be checked. In fact, the Company Tax Act, which I have submitted to the amendment, provides for a fine of between 2,000 and 200,000 dinars for certain failures. There's a big difference between the lowest and most fines. So here's the difference a hundred times. It is now proposed to replace the lowest fine to be 100,000 dinars and the highest to 600,000 dinars. I have submitted an amendment in which I suggest that this part be replaced and that the lowest penalty be 5,000 dinars, and the highest 300,000 dinars, as is my distinguished colleague, Verica Radeta, suggested, or realized that here is certainly an attempt to protect those who are in a mile, for example, the finance minister, or in a mile of government, and these are large entrepreneurs. They and if they commit any violations, they have only been increased three times, and there are many more in Serbia, and they are trying to do business in a difficult economic environment, and from living and supporting their families, the penalty increases 50 times. I think it is unfair, it is not rational, and I ask the MPs, no matter what parliamentary group they belong to, to accept this amendment when they vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5488	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5489	Before I speak to the MPs, I would like to ask Mr. Minister if he has accepted an amendment submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. If you didn't accept that, I'd like to talk about the next one. (The finance minister denied that he was accepted. ) When it comes to the amendment of MP Sreta Perić, who submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it is again Article 112, where the criminal provisions of the Company Tax Act are. The promoter asked for the amount of 2,000 dinars to be replaced by 100,000 dinars, the maximum amount per law so far has been 200,000 dinars, and the bill's proposer demands that the amount be 600,000 dinars. Given the inflation that has taken place since the time of adoption of this law, which is now in force, to this day, SRS MP Sreto Peric has asked for a certain increase, but only for an inflationary rate, which was present from the moment of this law's vote to the day of today, which means that he has demanded that the violation of this law be committed between 5,000 and 300,000 dinars, and not as the proposer wanted it from 100,000 to 600,000 dinars. Let's say that this amount of tax that is not accounted for and paid in accordance with this law of order is a thousand or two thousand dinars, someone will have to pay the fine of 100,000 dinars, and someone who may have miscounted the tax of a million dinars will pay the fine of 600,000 dinars. The minister and the government are aware that the most fines can be charged from small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, which pay mainly small corporate tax, so they will be ordered fines from 100,000 to 600,000, and those who are actually committing tax evasion, who abuse their relationship with the government of the Republic of Serbia, behind which various financial and mafia lobbys stand, will simply not be subject to the criminal provisions of this law. Therefore, the minister is likely planning to fill out of those small, small enterprises, small businesses, mostly the poor, but they are the ones who are building the social security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to buy for themselves a new "audi A8".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5490	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 47, and asked for the 1st position "from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars" to replace the words "5,000 to 300,000 dinars". The solution that exists in the old law, which is changed by this Bill's amendment and supplementation proposal, predicts that fines that were once from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars are replaced by a fine of 100,000 to 600,000 dinars. The question is, what are the reasons for this kind of increase? Is that inflation? You convince us from day to day in the previous four years that inflation is getting smaller and smaller, as it is single-digit, 7%, 5%, that it will not exceed 10% by the end of the year and so on. If so, why did you predict a 50-fold increase in sentence? What's still highly suspicious is that there is no specific proportion that would be applied from law to law, no matter what area. Because if criminal policy depends on the minister to the minister, if the fines go up five times, about ten times, about 50 times, the question is, why is that? Is this the time when our citizens' standards, businesses and taxpayers were considered? According to Minister Dinkic, the biggest change here is that the company's profit tax is reduced by this law from 14% to 10%. But what will be the benefit of reducing corporate income tax for this 4%, and we have heard that in the budget it represents a minor item of only 0.3%, if the dragon penalties that will affect everyone are prescribed? The benefit of reducing corporate tax will only be rare, as today in Serbia, the minimum number of enterprises that show any gain at the end of the calendar year is minimal. On the other hand, these dragon penalties, and I remind you once again, are projected from 100,000 to 600,000 dinars, refer to all taxpayers without distinction. Is it the aim of Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide a more favourable environment for business in Serbia and to ensure respect for the law or is it intended to "steal skin off the back" of a few taxpayers who still manage to survive in this situation? It should be borne in mind that this Article 112 is related to a new Article 7a, whose addition you have proposed these amendments and amendments to the Law, as provided for in points 5) and 7 of the first position, whose deletion proposed by the SRS through amendments, that interest due to untimely paid taxes, contributions and other public taxes, as well as fines and penalties shall not be recognised on the burden of expenditure. In this way, taxpayers will be double and additionally punished. On the one hand, they will be fined by paying green interest due to untimely tax. On the other hand, those who pay the tax in due time, but the tax administration, do not bear timely evidence that they paid the tax, although the tax administration can verify it through the tax identification number, will be punished by dragon penalties of between 100,000 and 600,000 dinars. And then those fines will be charged with corporate tax, as if it were income. This shouldn't be allowed. Show some understanding. The amendments are extremely meaningful. Show some goodwill and accept the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5492	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Mr. Minister rested, had breakfast, came and honored us with his presence, he probably intends to hear what the MPs have to say about the law he proposes. Yesterday, after working hours, Mr. Minister insulted the largest parliamentary group – the SRS, with his own exposure. Mr. Minister, you are first of all a guest in this assembly. You will behave in this way, and if you will not, bring the law or pass it on to the People's Messengers to discuss it, do not come. When DOS took over the levers in 2000, they promised everything, and the increase in standards, wages, the number of employees, the lower prices, that in a year we would all be able to buy cars, that in three years we would be able to buy apartments. However, part of those promises begins to be fulfilled. Here, the minister bought a new car, I guess the citizens of Serbia will soon be able to afford it. What they have not promised us - that they will increase us, and this bill increases our punishments everywhere and in every place. With a fine of between 2,000 and 200,000, it said in a law that also brought DOS by coming to power, and now the rate is increasing from 2,000 to 200,000 to 100,000. Gentlemen, the honourable MPs of the SRS, explaining the amendments of Igor Mirovic and Sreta Peric, told Serbian citizens why this figure of 100,000 and this one of 600,000. The most they will be able to charge is just from small and medium-sized enterprises, from people who will forget that in tax returns or when paying taxes, they will write the PIB, and then they will pay 100,000. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of talk about this amendment. I suggest that you adopt the amendment of MP Igor Mirovic or Sreta Perić, and that this harrassor, which Mr Dinkic foresees in this law, remove from the back of the economy, which otherwise has a very difficult life, is hard to do, and that we have adopted the laws so far, and those which we will adopt from now on, because you have three or four more laws, and that we have burdened them with a little bit, so that they can live and survive this dark time until we finally get DOS out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5494	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment and the Legislative Committee to reject the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here, the word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5495	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I read this article, if this wasn't the Assembly, I'd think I was living in some communist dictatorship. Article 51 says "The government of the Republic of Serbia will arrange a way to determine and pay monthly profit tax fees for 2004 after the entry into force of this law." The government of the Republic of Serbia will determine the taxpayers when they will pay a tax fee for the company's profits in 2004. This just means that the minister seems to expect waves of some strikes, social and civil unrest, so maybe when a problem arises only to issue a order to tax administrations – print solutions, forward it to the taxpayers, to pay it as soon as possible. If they don't, we're going to punish them from 100,000 to 600,000 dinars, and then we have a tax procedure and administration law, there we're going to punish them from two to ten times what they didn't pay, but we're going to make sure that all the citizens who are or who are going to lose their jobs. This is the only way I can interpret this. It could be solved by a simple member – a calculated and paid fee until the date of entry into force, and new advances would be received by taxpayers, and there was a story completed. This way, the minister can adopt a tax settlement after the entry into force of this law and give the order to all pay the tax in one day, although the advance is scheduled to be paid for a whole year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5496	Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5497	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS amendment, Mr Veroljub Arsic, submitted amendments to the 51st Act on Amendments and Supplements. This amendment requires the removal of Article 51, as the member is such that no other way could be corrected. This is the best thing that could have been done for both taxpayers and all of us. Article 51 gave the government the power to regulate the way in which the monthly profit tax advances for 2004 were determined and paid after the entry into force of this law. The provisions of the previous members and of Article 7a are hereby rounded up. He says it will not be counted in expenditures but in the profits of the company and what is taken from taxpayers by green interest, which the government is charging them if they are late to pay the tax. And we know that nobody's late on paying their taxes, but because there's not enough money for that right now. On the other hand, the adoption of this article will allow full application of Article 112, which prescribes dragon penalties, for taxpayers to be fined between 100,000 and 600,000 dinars. Why? What falls into the eyes is that the basic minimum penalty, which was appropriate, which amounted to 2,000 dinars under the current law has now been increased 50 times - to as many as 100,000 dinars. He noted Mr. Mladjan Dinkic that the tax authorities that determine these penalties, aware of the situation in the economy of Serbia and of those who come to them and who pay those penalties, have no heart to determine maximum penalties. Usually these penalties for these delays or late payments were 2,000 dinars. The largest number of these fines amounted to exactly 2,000 dinars. This is why the minimum penalty is now going to increase 100,000 dinars, to increase as much as 50 times, and thus the revenues that will fit into the government of the Republic of Serbia's government budget from taxpayers, regardless of the company's profit tax reduction of only 4%, which is 4% compared to 50 times, will be increased multiple times.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5498	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5499	Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time today, I am expressing my view and stressing that it was necessary, even mandatory, for the Government of Serbia to provide the National Assembly on all these amendments with a written explanation, i.e. a written position on whether to accept or not to accept the amendments submitted and, of course, if it does not accept, with an explanation why some amendment could not be accepted by the Government. In particular, this is necessary in view of the fact that the Government sent to the National Assembly an inadequate representative of the legislators of this law, who yesterday after working time, insulted the MPs and miraculously surprised that this ruling majority, however, was then only 30, so that they could listen to the reasons of the SRS MPs. The president of the assembly has not responded to such a scandalous statement, he must not touch his party vice president. On article 51, Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment and suggested that the member be deleted. The reason is that the principled and principled position of the SRS is that this matter must be regulated by law and not just this one. Our principled view is that it is not good to rule regulations, that it is not good to manage recommendations, conclusions, government instructions, etc. We have bad experience, such a way of ruling is always the source of a series of abuses. In this government, Vojislav Kostunica has made this special and obvious. We witness daily abuse of government members on various issues, and the opposition does not have to speak about it. That's what government members of the government are talking about. They're being accused every day, and that's why it's not good, ladies and gentlemen, that we MPs, or you who are the ruling majority and who support the government, create legal conditions for abuse. The ruling majority should probably protect the government of Serbia, but not only by replicating for this speaker some largely inappropriate and unblessing replicas of the SRS MPs, since we are the only opposition in this assembly and the state of Serbia, but it would be good for MPs to take care of their government by suggesting that they adopt laws that are truly in the right sense of the word of the law. Because the provision of article 51 of this law is a legal and legal norm, which every lawyer, even a law student, knows, must be decadent and clear, and must not open up the possibility of abuse, and some broad and many free interpretations. This is particularly not good when it comes to this and this government, because this government is in many ways the continuity of the previous DOS government, and especially in the fact that government members allow themselves to be directly involved in the judicial branch of government, by commenting in the media on judicial judgments, indictments, lawsuits, etc. They can't learn what a government job is. The work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to care about the state and care for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If this government knew that, it would certainly not propose this member of the 51st law, which says the government of the Republic of Serbia will arrange a way to determine and pay monthly profit tax fees for 2004 after the entry into force of this law. This seems to be a message to the taxpayers that as soon as possible they connect with certain members of the government, those who have not done so before, and then have a chance to be treated differently compared to those who do not have such a close relationship with one of the members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you adopt this amendment as extremely well-intentioned and as an amendment that will really protect the members of the government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia from any further abuses, at least in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5500	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Veroljub Arsic, who has submitted an amendment to Article 51 of the Law, and otherwise he is very concerned with this whole problem, during the debate today and in the previous days, wanted to warn the ruling majority, and above all, Mladjan Dinkic, that through such legal provisions, there is room for doubt by the taxpayers what will be in the future if the government acts in this way. There was no Minister Dinkic when I spoke about Article 9 and our amendment to Article 9 of the Law, where we also made a clear and unequivocal remark that the motionor had dared to give so much authority to ministers, that they were closer to regulating how to use the funds and assess what is good, or what is in the interest of culture for the state and what is not. Mladjan Dinkic gave this bill, and I have to repeat it again, copying, or using everything that Bozidar Djelic did, with the previous DOS furniture, along with some changes and this article 74. Djelic, however, did not go further through the changes in corporate tax rates, states that by the end of the year, the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine how to determine and pay monthly income tax advances, but it is already foreseen by Article 74 that the taxpayer of the company's profits during the year will pay the tax on the basis of the data provided in the tax application in the light of monthly advances, whose height is governed by Article 63 of this law, and this has not changed in this Dinkic's proposal. The reference of taxpayers to this free interpretation of the government opens room for doubt among those who want to work normally and honestly in a country where they have no possibility, no space to work in this way, because the government itself has not enabled them to do so, they have not shown that they are willing to do so in the past few months. Promises are empty, Minister, and you promised citizens a lot as governor in 2000, and none of them were. It's probably better for you. One of your MPs dared yesterday and asked, in an arrogant and ironic tone, speaking to a colleague of Radeti, he said - what godfathers, where, who is best man, who is best man. You know very well who the godfathers are, who used to be about the state and the people, who robbed, who dealt with malfeasance, the illicit business. If you consider it a finance minister to be such a special member of the law, so to speak, and the way the Government of the Republic of Serbia will determine it, the government should treat the taxpayers, then it is not good. The way you treat yourself is not good, and it is not suitable for the function you perform, because you treated one MP very badly yesterday, colleagues Radeti, probably in such a way as to threaten the finger and talk to certain taxpayers and who knows how much further it will take you, because when a man gets hurt once, until someone is harshly opposed to him, and we don't want it to be any other way, but just the citizens to make you even worse in the elections, like they did a month ago, then you won't get to know reason and you won't realize that it's not exactly what you wrote here and that reality is completely different. Such a way of regulating this area and such powers for both the Minister and the Government not only are not good, but they show the absence of any reality, the one boast that you, Mladjana Dinkic, and how you tend, and I think the taxpayers understand it and will therefore want soon, as well as a large part of our citizens, that you leave this function and that you no longer give us such completely unacceptable legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5502	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance, want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5503	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the debate, I would like to express my satisfaction at the end of the debate on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Company Tax Act to express on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that there have been no more serious objections to the text of the law. Indeed, it is the most liberal law on profit tax and we did not expect, I must admit, serious objections, which has proved in this debate. As for the misunderstanding of individual members by some MPs, I would take advantage of the opportunity in this final word to explain what was wanted by individual members. For example, some MPs have had objections to Article 51, which the government of the Republic of Serbia should regulate the way in which the monthly advances of the rest of the profit tax for 2004 are paid. Namely, as you know, the profit tax rate is now 14%. With the new law in force, it goes down to 10%. In other words, 28.6% will be lower than tax bonds and, of course, it is the desire of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that taxpayers can immediately get the opportunity to pay lower taxes. Why would they pay in the remaining five or six months a higher fee when this law gives them the opportunity to pay almost 30% of the tax rate. So this member also gives the government of the Republic of Serbia the obligation to state by regulation that the advance and the backlog of this year will not be paid at higher rates, at a higher rate, but will decrease by 28.6%, as the rate changes from 14% to 10%, it is currently a 28.6% drop. We want, of course, to enable taxpayers to pay lower taxes immediately, and I don't understand why someone is pushing for the bonds to pay higher taxes by the end of the year, when the law gives them a lower rate. The second remark heard here is why unpaid severances and fines are not recognised as tax balance expenditure. I think it's perfectly logical for severance fees to be admitted to the moment when they're paid. If they're just accounting for accounting rather than paying off, then there's no point in being recognized and that's an objection to Article 6. As for the remarks made by some Members of Parliament to Article 9. The bill, why donations for health, education, scientific, humanitarian, religious and sports services and other services are accounted for at 3.5% of total income and count as expenditure on the tax balance, and not at a higher percentage, I would like to say that this is about 3.5% compared to the total income of the company. Total income is the largest category possible and 3.5% is a large amount, and in no other legislation is higher, especially given that the law provides for additional 1.5% of total income to be recognised as expenditure for culture, so that, in fact, up to 5% of total income is recognised as expenditure, with culture having an advantage, because cultural expenditure can be recognised as expenditure when calculating income tax up to 1.5% of total income. We think it's really enough and it's more favourable than the previous law. As for, I think, misunderstandings, why is it now deleted for banks a provision relating to the introduction of an international accounting standard, I just want to say that, unlike other legal entities, international accounting standards have been in force for banks since 1 January 2003. This is just harmonising other legal entities with international accounting standards, equating them with banks, because banks have already introduced international accounting standards, and now they need to introduce other legal entities. I would like to thank the MPs for constructive discussions, which provide support to the law, because indeed a 10% profit tax rate does not have any countries in the European Union. The tax credits provided for by this law for investment and for the equipment of certain activities, the simple way of calculating depreciation, indeed makes this law very liberal and I thank most of the MPs who will support this law in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5504	Please, don't, don't, don't tell you, this is the final word and we're going to the conclusion, and if we go to the replicas, I don't see that in any offensive sense he mentioned you. You're advertising the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5505	I am advocating the Rules of Procedure as regards the right to the replica of Members of Parliament, because those provisions read – if someone misreads the presentation, and the minister here talked about my amendment to Article 51, that I do not understand it, and then he misread my amendment. That's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, because the problem that arises in Article 51. The bill concerns the tax difference between 14%, and the taxpayers have already received solutions and paid for the first six months with today's day, and the rest of the tax to be settled. The Minister, or the Government, gives himself the right to determine the dynamics, which he can say, okay, so far, but because they cut your taxes, you can next month, or you'll have to pay all the bills by the end of 2004 under the provisions of the new law. This is the problem, either simply the Government, or the minister, will issue a warrant when it needs money to speed up this dynamic, or to change the tax settlements already received by taxpayers according to the law. It is not true that the government has changed some of the rules regarding the member on donations for science and culture, but that the story that these provisions are not changed remains the same, no previous solution has been changed, but simply the SRS MPs have asked for a higher percentage to be recognised by legal entities that make donations in these areas, especially if it is in the light of the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia singles out donations worth around 8.5 billion dinars, under the terms of specialised service. In fact, it is about money that is hard to determine how it is spent and whether it is necessary to spend, so it is better for those who make donations to control how their money is spent. At the same time, I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the quorum for the work of the National Assembly and to establish the quorum for further work of the National Assembly accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5506	You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mihailovic, I must warn the fact that Vice President Vojislav Mihailovic said something that is very dangerous and terrible for people who want to chair the National Assembly and it's not funny at all. You who are elected, in any way, respect the will of the citizens, on the lists of parties, the group that proposed you, you must know that your behaviour and behaviour of each of us individually, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, determines both political life and democratic development, and processes in our country, and the way that the most legislative body will function. Mr. Vojislav Mihailovic, who under the circumstances is one of the vice-presidents because of such participation of his party, is not the first time an MP in the Assembly. You, Mr. Mihailovic, were thinking twice before this call, and you know very well how these speakers can be addressed by ministers, MPs and others who have the right to do so. Never, even the previous DOS furniture, even that did not occur to Natasa Micic to say -- you cannot speak because the minister had the final word. Explain to me and explain to the MPs how it is possible for you as an MP from the formerly called, now Vice President of the Assembly, you do not know Article 89. Rules of Procedure. You don't know who, when and why he can come out and speak from a congregation pay phone. Where it says, in what position, that after the presentation of any minister, the MP on the line cannot come out, as is now directly, recognising part of his speech in the presentation of Mladjan Dinkic, he wanted to do a colleague, Veroljub Arsic. As long as it takes us, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to take us. What are you going to do, if the minister has a different color tie, MPs can't come out for a pay phone that day. If he came in the other car, his A8 audition broke down, I can't put MPs on the phone. If he's here, he's having some trouble with his best friends, I can't have MPs for a pay phone. Let's act like that, without acting in accordance with democratic decision-making and such a radical Rules of Procedure, such as this, and Article 89. It would be good never to think again that such a ban can be imposed on the MPs, that you retain an MP who has a direct right, has been called upon to leave the minister in replica. Looks like you, too, Mr. Mikhailovich, have mixed up some pots. You must know, you are an MP, vice-president of the Assembly, that Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the minister thanks to the majority will, what kind of MPs in this assembly, and that he must respect both MPs and this speaker and speak correctly to everyone. When he said constructive discussions and constructive remarks... (President: I would ask you to watch your time, for you have exceeded your time.) )......................................................................................................... Of course, Serbian radicals have been identified in this, we've been giving constructive amendments, we've spoken constructively, but don't ever tell the MP again that he can't come out because the minister said it and that's the end. There's no end. It is the end when the MPs decide and the majority make a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5508	Perhaps if MP Natasa Jovanovic had known about Article 138, she would not have exhibited it like this. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5509	You must apply a member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mihailovic, who clearly says that if you are not able, obviously you are not, by your authority to maintain order in the O.R., you must take a break. Since the nervous MPs of the G17 Plus Group started to get up from their MPs' benches, to leave the gym, to tell you that you did not or did not pay reckless attention to yourself and look at what's called the Rules of Procedure, whoever advised you did not properly advise you. It is written that after the completion of the examination of the draft law in particular, the right to the final word shall be given by the Proposer, or by an authorised representative of the Proposer. Doesn't mean someone can't go out after him from the MPs and replicate him. Mladjan Dinkic, in his final statement, could tell the MPs -- you are like this, you are criminals, and no one can come out of his line. So, not only are you wrong, Mr. Mihailovic, but I am referring you to it, and there will be time, the Predrag Markovic will return this afternoon, sit slowly, one by one, learn this Rules of Procedure until we change it and bring it to democratic true will, so next time come, chair and act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5510	Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the DSS is the 7th National MP Miroslav Petkovic, and in front of the SPS is MP Toma Busetic. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRACTION OF THE DECLARATION OF SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (principles) According to which member of the Rules of Procedure are you reporting? (Veroljub Arsic: A violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the quorum. You are not an authorised representative, your authorised representative must. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Goran Knezevic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Meko Omerović, Ljiljana Nestorović, together Zoran Andjelkovic and Toma Busetic, together Radojle Bukvic and Radovan Teodorović, Rajko Baralić, Milan Jankovic, Miloje Saviv Petronijevic. You have received notice from MP Meh Omerovic to withdraw Amendment 3 to Article 8. The amendments that are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which shall be submitted until the opening of the search, shall be given to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to present to you the draft law on contributions to mandatory social security. It's a whole new law that needs to simplify the payment system for compulsory social security contributions. As you know, today this system is arranged in three different laws. The aim of this law is to unite all matter in one law. This law brings significant fiscal redundancies to those taxpayers who are in a difficult economic situation. Special discharge is provided for companies that have low profits and entrepreneurs. With these laws, entrepreneurs will have a fiscal discharge of about 7%. Of course, the law in a unique way covers the payment system of contributions and in one fiscal law the entire system of contributions for compulsory social security is regulated. The bill stipulates that the single contribution rates are for the following forms of insurance: for PIO 22%, for health insurance 12.3%. I must say, this law abolishes the current system with 13 different rates of health insurance. A single rate of 12.3% is introduced. Also, a 1.5% rate is foreseen for unemployment insurance. This law abolishes the so-called so-called law. multiple basis for calculating contributions, which depend on the degree of professional preparation, and which introduced the law that was passed in the 1990s, which unfairly contributed to individual branches, such as textile industry, leather and footwear, the furniture industry, must separate for contributions far more than the amount of real net wages they pay. That law, I say, is known as "Chesshel's Law." This changes it. I hope what I just said gets some attention from some MPs. In fact, instead of the world of the unknown system, where there were eight minimum basis for calculating contributions, where companies paid far more in the name of contributions than they had money to pay for salaries, we introduce a single minimum base of contribution of 40% of the average gross salary paid in the previous quarter in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the rates proposed by this law are, I repeat, for pension insurance 22, for health insurance 12.3% and for unemployment insurance 1.5%. This is a total rate of 35.8 per cent, with half of the contributions paid by employees of paid earnings, and half of them paid by employers. As far as the rates are concerned, I can say that this law allows Serbia to join a group of countries with below average burden and within a larger group of countries, only eight countries have a total contribution rate lower than Serbia. For example, the overall social contribution rate in Romania is as high as 60%, in the Netherlands 48%, in Hungary 48%, in Slovakia 43%, in the Czech Republic 42%, in Bulgaria 41%, in France 41%, in Italy 40%, in Germany, in Slovenia about 38%, in Turkey. So Serbia has 35.8%. Many European countries, and those formerly in the European Union and those who entered on 1 May, have a far higher rate of overall contributions than this bill. We specifically wanted to stimulate the employment of those categories of unemployed who are over 45 and 50 years old, and they lost their jobs in the transition process. In this regard, the employer shall be exempt from the obligation to pay a contribution to a employee who is over 50 years of age in the amount of 100% of the contribution. In other words, if someone employs a person over the age of 50, who is now on the Bureau or receives unemployment benefits, the employer does not pay a single contribution during the first two years. If he hires a 45-year-old person, he doesn't pay 80% of the contributions. Our idea was to stimulate the employment of middle-aged people, they lost their jobs in the previous period, and now we want to stimulate employers to hire them, so they don't pay for the next two years. Therefore, the exemption from payment of the contribution takes two years from the day of employment. The condition is that this person at the National Employment Service was either a beneficiary of a cash compensation or was reported as unemployed uninterrupted for a year. The employer loses the right to be released if the employee ceases employment, unless the employment relationship comes independently of the employee's or employer's will. I would also like to say the relationship between newly established rates of contribution in this law and in other countries. As far as the pension insurance contribution rate is concerned, there is 22% in Serbia. The example works, in Hungary it is 30%, in the Netherlands 29%, Spain 28, Finland 27, Romania has as much as 40%. As for the contribution to health insurance, we predicted by law that it is 12.3%, while in Romania about 14%, Hungary 14, is in Slovakia 13. Finally, at the rate of unemployment contributions, Slovenia alone has a lower rate of contribution to unemployment. All other countries in Europe have a higher contribution rate, which means that there will probably be room to further increase this rate in the coming years, but given that it was 1% in the previous law, we did not want to put any further burden on the economy and we found a rate of 1.5%. To find out what the effects of discharging taxpayers are. First, the removal of the 8 minimum basis of contributions, which has been introduced by a parliamentary group that has now obviously left the hall due to shame, will lead to a huge pay-out discharge, especially in working-intense branches: in the textile industry by about 30%, in the leather and footwear industry also by 30%, in the furniture industry around 20%. Of course, all this depends on the degree of qualifications of those who are employed. So entrepreneurs will pay 7% lower contributions compared to the previous period. Dispersion is the following, depending on the degree of expertise: for those who are the most qualified, who have so far paid contributions to fictitious bases, and not on the basis of actual earnings, etc. The eighth level of expertise, in which the rate of contribution will be 62% lower today; for the seventh two degrees of expertise 53%, for the seventh one 51%, for the sixth degree of expertise 35%, for the fifth degree 34%, for the fourth degree (high school) 24%, for the third degree 15%. Of course, the aim of this law is to organise in a unique way the matter of payment of contributions, to dissipate entrepreneurs, to dissipate labour-intense branches and to allow these businesses to invest. As for hiring older citizens, those over 45 years old, those contributions that their employers will not pay, the state will pay for them over a period of two years, which means they will have adequate social and health insurance, and unemployment insurance. Finally, this law changes the current practice by which the calculation of the contribution was required even if the company does not have enough salary to pay. In this law, it is proposed that, if the company does not have enough pay to pay, contributions are no longer accounted for. So they're not obliged to pay, since they don't have the money to pay and the basic profits. You know, in the previous period, it's been accumulated as one debt, that these companies are never, nor will they be able to pay for it. We think it was irrational, and that's why we proposed this law. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance expects most MPs to support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5512	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm setting a break by 15.05 hours. [[After break – 15,50]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to work, please confirm the quorum. I'm saying we're going to find the quorum and we can keep working. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents or representatives want a word? Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been meaning to speak of this law as the most normal thing that has appeared in the Assembly since this government took office, but not that the minister, whom I can place in Serbia's most insolent creatures. Not that the minister's relationship with MPs, his relationship with the SRS MPs and his relationship with SRS President Vojislav Seselj does not allow man to treat him like a normal man. Irregularity. Besides, the minister didn't deserve it. Because yesterday he said all judges are corrupt in Serbia, because he does not respect the courts in Serbia. No court ruling respects, and the worst of it is that it accuses others of lying and lying as soon as they're dead. Irregularity. You didn't yesterday, when he said we were lying five times, you didn't object, and now you're complaining when I say that a man who doesn't deserve to represent the government is lying, now you're rebelling. Let's see how Minister Dinkic lies. The fact that the law is not bad, but it was not written by Mladjan Dinkic, nor does he know anything about the law and it is seen from his discussion. He read us a re-explanation from the Bill of Law, which was written by someone who was professional enough to do so. But Mladjan Dinkic says that this law abolishes so-called "the law". multiple basis for calculating contributions, which depend on the degree of professional preparation, and which was introduced by the law that was passed in the 1990s, did not even finish the sentence properly, I cannot even quote it, and it says – this law is known as Seselj's law. This, it says, changes. I hope what I just said gets some attention from some MPs. Well, it got my attention. Laws have been passed in the 1990s, and 91, 92, 93, 94 and 95 and 96 and 97 without the participation of the SRS. Done in 98th and 99th and in part 2000 with our participation, but you have already accused us of making very few laws at that time. But how it didn't occur to the minister when the laws were passed whose provisions are now being amended or abolished by this law. How can he not think to look at it and see if it's 2001 or 2002? - 2003 and 2004. That the laws that introduced the higher rates, and those rates depended on professional preparation, even introduced the basics on the school's preparation, without asking how much wages were paid, brought in 2002. Well, what a minister's morale, who was then in the government and was governor of the National Bank. What kind of morale it is to accuse the opposition party of the law that was passed, which he says is bad. It was bad, but look at our amendments to that law. If our amendments were then adopted, it would look like this proposal that you are now putting before us. Well, who opened up the debate more than we did when we said, "How can you ask for contributions and no pay is paid?" Then it is said: The state must settle, and if you have no wages, close the firm. Well, when everyone's closed down the companies, now they can't settle the contributions until the pay is paid. So, what kind of morality is that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and where are you who voted for this 2002 and 2003 law? Now you're going to vote for this law. Now you're going to go out here and you're going to say -- an extraordinary law, abolishing more taxes and contributions, and we've been listening to the tiaras about how they have to separate at 12 or 13 feet, because it was unique until you came to power. But, well, it's enough just to get an SRS. Who's going to do it but Mladjan Dinkic? Because if there was luck, when his shift from governor of the NBJ was sought, then he stayed thanks to you who changed him afterwards. Brutally, by stealing votes, you replaced him instead of when there was a debate in the Federal Assembly and when it was argued what he would do with Serbian banking. At that time, Serbian banking was not ruined, but only after that, when he remained in the governor's post and did what he wanted. Why don't the Ministers, when they come out for a pay phone, talk about the law? Let them leave us to MPs, if we should be among ourselves and between their parties or parliamentary groups, to develop political discussions as well. I don't want to talk to the minister about my political party. No, it's not his job. It's the work of his deputies here. He can hold on if he can, but he can't hold on. He'd be fine. And what he says is, "what are the effects of discharging taxpayers. "Well, we read it in the reasoning of the law. Did he have anything new to tell us? "First, the removal of the system of eight minimum basics of contributions, which has been introduced by a parliamentary group which has now, apparently due to shame, left the hall." They went out not out of shame, but out of shame. We did not bring in those eight groups, but when you came to power. DOS introduced eight groups. Or, if you found eight groups, why didn't you cut them off? But find out when Seselj suggested it (receives to the ambassadors who earn it), find when Seselj voted for it, you smart guys from the party that is falling apart. Find out when it was. No, don't defend Mladjan Dinkic, defend what half an hour after Marsican's disaster ran to congratulate Boris Tadic for falling into the second round. Defend, defend. You're defending Mladjan Dinkic, you're defending him. You're the one who put him in the seat of governor of the NBJ. Because of you, there are no more Serbian banks. You should defend Mladjan Dinkic, because you are actually to blame for everything that is happening in Serbia. If G17 plus could destroy banking and the Serbian economy, when, if it wasn't for you. (President: I warn the People's Messengers not to earn. [[Sagar.]] Go on. I would ask the MP who comes from Kosovo and Metohija to cover himself with ears. (Glasses – auuuuuuuuu.) You had a chance, MP here, a unique opportunity, when the first conflict in the DOS over Kosovo and Metohija began, to destroy that gang, but your speech was soft and soft. I don't know what you're promised. After that, you all got positions in Kosovo and Metohija. Now I from Kragujevac, from my heart, defend Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5515	I warn the MPs, including the speaker, that they are related to respect, without being thrown away. No one has the right to interfere with the speaker while he's talking. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5516	I repeat for the deaf once again: Now I from Kragujevac, from the heart, defend Kosovo and Metohija. I have no economic interests there. My origin is not from there. I have citizens there who vote for the SRS and I can no longer leave them, I cannot leave them like you, because you will also make Kosovo and Metohija from Belgrade. As far as the law is concerned, this law deserves the support of the SRS parliamentary group because it is good, and we will see to it that we break the minister as soon as we can, because this has nothing to do with it. This law destroys the DOS concept, this is the concept of DOS, this law collapses and partially returns to a concept that existed before the DOS. This law has some inadequacies and indiscretions. They can get rid of the amendments. They don't have to. Our differences with this bill are so small. If you accept any of the amendments, accept, here we will not interfere even in the discussion of the amendments. I'd like to prove to you that there's no interference with the radicals if there's anything good, but if there's something wrong with the radicals, it can't go through. That'll be your problem from now on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5517	Do you want to use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5518	I won't, I'll need it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5519	Replica, please. An apostle to whom is shown by hand in your speech, and it is said to you, Messenger. Mr. Kuryacki of Novi Sad is certainly not from Kosovo. The new now is in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5520	I'll say two shorts for clarification. Eight groups of paying basics for mandatory social security were found. So it's from a time before 2000. That's not the invention of that DOS when we were, that DOS you're calling. Therefore, it is a founding state. On the other hand, as regards the defence of Kosovo's economic interests, please do not defend it anymore. I, for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, did not get 160 square meters in New Belgrade. That's what somebody else got.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5521	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5522	A violation of the dignity of the National Assembly was committed here. I won the apartment, and before that, I've defended Kosovo and Metohija's interests my whole life, but I didn't ask Covic to give me money, six million dinars at the time, as you asked, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5523	If I understand correctly, Mr. Nikolic, your exposure, this is not exactly what the application says. So they're not saying "against" but "for" the law of the MPs of the SRS. It's a technical matter. So, for or against, because of the appointment of MPs who will speak. For or against? Against. Does he want another president or a representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5524	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on contributions to mandatory social security is making important changes to the legal acts that have regulated this matter so far. This law makes it possible to simplify the system of contributions, to increase revenue from contributions, by equating different forms of work with regard to the obligation to pay for contributions and by introducing an extension of the basis of the contribution. The fiscal discharge provided for by this law is significant, above all, for employers with the lowest fiscal rate. The law will, of course, affect the reduction of the grey economy, but also the better and better quality control and collection of contributions. This law is of fiscal character and regulates the types of contributions, obligors, determines new foundations and new rates of contribution, but yet the adoption of this law regulates the whole matter in a unique way, or one legal act, and not as it has been in several legal acts so that the practice that exists in the environment is respected, in most countries that have developed the market economy. Also, this law defines public income contributions, which are controlled and which are available by compulsory social security organisations. The law clarifies taxpayers for contributions to all three basic insurance, and these are also employers, temporary and occasional persons, as well as selected, appointed and appointed persons. The persons who make the agreed fee on the basis of the contract of work and other contracts are also bonds of payment of contributions to compulsory PIO, as well as employers with additional contributions to those situations where employees have an insurance standing with an increased duration. The law stipulates that persons who generate income on a number of different grounds have a obligation to pay contributions to incomes made on all these grounds, whether it is a working relationship, an income from an independent activity or a contracted fee. In this way, people with higher incomes and higher incomes are provided with a higher pension base and greater health insurance rights. A significant exception is that it excludes the obligation to pay a contribution to agricultural income for all those who pay contributions on the basis of a working relationship or on an independent basis. A significant reform task in the field of contribution is achieved by expanding the basis for paying contributions to all types of income generated by work. The basis of contributions for employees and their employers is profit, salary and compensation. Unlike the applicable law, which represents a slightly different form of payment for workers working abroad, this law stipulates that the basis of the contribution is made by the profits they earn abroad. Temporary and occasional transactions are fully fiscally balanced with a working relationship at the same rate and the basis for all three types of compulsory social security. Of course, for pensions and disability benefits, the basis of the contribution is the amount of pension paid, i.e. compensation, and the obligation to implement the Republic Fund PIO. For unemployed persons exercising their rights with the National Employment Service, i.e. beneficiaries of cash compensation, the basis in these cases will be precisely the cash compensation they receive and the burden of the contribution will go to their users. In the case of entrepreneurs, the basis for the contribution is the tax base on which the income tax is paid to citizens. This law introduced a slightly more favourable position for priests and religious officials, for which a base was prescribed at the level of average earnings in the Republic achieved in the last quarter of the previous year. In the case of farmers, the basic contribution is the income from the agricultural activity on which the tax is paid. It is known that there is a possibility for persons to be included on their own, voluntarily, on their own request in a mandatory social security system. This law does not touch the rights of those persons, but defines a mandatory social security organisation's obligation to define the height of the basis by its acts, and to give consent to this height to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Such a contribution system requires the existence of a minimum basis for the contribution, but in order to avoid the use of greater rights than it belongs to insurance undertakings, the institution shall introduce the most basics on which the accounting and payment of contributions is carried out. So, the essential newspaper of this law is the minimum basis of the contribution, the unique minimum monthly base of contribution of 40% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic that applies to all taxpayers. I remind you that the current law provides for eight basics according to the degree of expertise, ranging from 37% for unskilled workers to 155% for doctors of science. Of course, it's all about the average monthly earnings in the Republic. This basis introduced by this law will be established quarterlyly, in line with the movement of earnings in the Republic. The most significant effect of introducing a single minimum monthly base is seen in the fiscal redundancy of employee earnings, and this is particularly true of employers who pay the lowest earnings in the Republic. In a much more favourable position, entrepreneurs who at this time pay contributions of 100% of the average republican earnings are also brought in, so that this law corrects this irregularity and simply illogicality, as many of them have so far had lower incomes which have been taxed from average earnings. In the case of part-time work, it is proposed to apply a proportionate minimum monthly base of contribution if employees exercise their right in two or more employers. In this way, the aim of this law is to avoid the many abuses that existed, if an employee is fictitiously reported, as well as when employed with incomplete working hours. In the area of health insurance instead of currently existing 13 feet, only one rate is proposed for total rights and only one rate for limited labour-related rights, which significantly simplifies the whole process. The law introduces uniform contributions rates for health insurance of 12.3%, for PIO of 22% and for unemployment insurance, this percentage increases from 1.1% to 1.5%. The proposed contribution rates are in the function of reducing the existing financial deficit of mandatory social security organisations. Thanks to the successful policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the fiscal policies and laws that we have passed here in the previous period, despite an increase in the rate of contribution, a reduction of the existing fiscal burden on the debtors will be ensured due to the abolition of the obligation to pay taxes on the fund. The law will also have a direct impact on the increase in employment of categories of persons who are harder to hire and who receive cash compensation through the National Employment Service and persons who are kept on staff records for an uninterrupted period of one year and who are older than 50 years and 45 years, respectively. The advantage is seen in the fact that the law provides for the possibility that employers who employ such persons do not pay tax on the employer’s burden, or do not pay contributions to the employer’s burden on persons over 50 years of age, and then decreases by 80% if persons older than 45 years of age are employed. This is very important because of the large number of people who have lost their jobs in the transition process as a technological surplus, have a shorter period of retirement, and can hardly be employed because of years of age. The paper is also that this law no longer stipulates the employer's obligation to make contributions, and afterwards earns, but makes this obligation on the payday of earnings, so the employer is obliged to pay and all contribute. Finally, this law provides for the harmonisation of the system of contributions with the most developed countries of the European Union, and it is certainly a fact that the Fund for PIO employees, independent actions, farmers, as well as the Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service will have increased revenues, that the funds that their users benefit will be used in the right way, which is the best reason and invitation for all of you to vote for this law together with DSS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5525	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The SPS authorised representative, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this law is to increase the contribution rate in the area of social security. This increase, when it comes to pension insurance, is from 20.6% to 22%, health insurance from 11.9% to 12.3% and in case of unemployment insurance from 1.1% to 1.5%. Regardless of what Minister Dinkic said several hours ago that there would be a significant discharge, at least in some areas, it is somewhat true, however, the aim of this law is to fill all these funds, because the situation in all these funds is very difficult. If we do a flash analysis of the situation in all the funds and in the PIO, the health insurance fund, when it comes to the National Service funds, regardless of what the previous government, the Government of Zoran Djindjic, Zivkovic, Djelic, Vlahovic, has done everything to reduce the fund's obligation to the insurance companies, today pensioners are brought to the beggar stick. Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, the famous minister, came to the SPS parliamentary group two years ago, said he would apply a new model of the law, under which pensioners will also be maimed, as they do not mostly vote for DOS. Those were his words, and we have more witnesses. And what did that Swiss system mean? The Swiss system meant harmonising pensions with salary growth and the cost of living at 50%. That synchronization was three months. In this way, pensions in Serbia are on average 60% of the average salary. We know that all prices are based on average wages. Another big warning, it's not the end. Most likely, since this government will continue to do so and at these rates, we will have the average pension of 30 and 40% of the average wage in some of the most Western European countries, and we know that our salaries are small and that with these pensions all pensioners will be threatened in some way. Otherwise, I belong to MPs who believe that everything that was until 2000 was much better than after October 5th. It's precisely on the case of this law and the situation in these areas that I'm going to prove very easily that it is. The example works, the average pension in our time, during the SPS government, was over 90% of the average salary. It was a great success, but of course, we didn't depend much on multinational companies, we didn't depend on the IMF and the World Bank, which are just forcing authorities to pass the laws that are being passed today. What is very important for the pension fund is the fact that today the original funds are in the budget, or in the PIO fund about 50% to 60%, and all other funds are tied to the budget. We do know, however, that at that time, in the 1990s, for example, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the original funds were raised from contributions at 85, 86, 87%. And why are these original funds important? Sources are important because this is the only way to ensure the stability of the fund. If our resources in PIO are related to the budget, today it is in Serbia – half. There's a huge instability in all these funds. We have examples in many countries around us, including Republika Srpska, Macedonia, in other countries, which means when these funds are tied to the budget. Our budget, which has been in effect since 2001, all three or four years, has been deficited and is mostly filled with donations, privatisation and loans. What's going to happen one day, and that time is coming very soon, when there won't be a donation, the donation may be this year, but the next difficult, the loans are very expensive and very unfavourable, and when it comes to privatisation, everything has been sold that was worth it. There are still public companies that cost a lot, which are worth a lot. It shouldn't be sold, but it's possible to get those sales, when all this is exhausted, when all this is sold, there won't be any pensions. We have these examples in many countries. Pensions are only at the level of those funds collected through contributions. In some countries, these funds amounted to 15-20%, despite the fact that someone is nominally entitled to a pension of 20,000, he received 5,000. That's a fact. All of this I want to tell you the most because I want to do it again, very well and in fact, to support this situation, that in the 1990s it was better. It's true that it was hard to live. It's true that there were sanctions, it's true that everything was imposed on us, and wars and sanctions, but the mass of the population, regardless of the small wages, lived better than they do today. Who lives well in Serbia today? Livers of power, those people who are close to the authorities, and that all comes down to a dozen percent of the population. It's the naked truth. When we talk about increasing the rate of contribution in this area, I do not believe this increase will contribute to a better situation in the area of pension insurance. Today, peasant pensions, or agricultural producers, are two years late. In our time, at the time of the SPS, they were 17 months late and that was better. These other pensions are two months late. What's the big deal? Nothing. As long as the Rigid laws were during DOS, the best way to speak is the Pension Insurance Act. You know that at the time of the SPS government, when it came to the pension account, they were accounted for by taking ten of the most favourable years. It's overwritten today. There's no man, no doctor, no engineer, no worker, no match for a ten-year-old. Of course, then it's power, and I see that now it continues, there won't be any particular changes. What is thus obtained: that even future pensioners will not have a favourable accounting, they will have fewer pensions and the funds will be less burdened. When we talk about the Health Insurance Fund, and here we have an increase, maybe the health insurance contribution rate is at least increased, from 11.9 to 12.3. But what's going on here? We do not think that this increase will lead to a significant improvement in the situation in the field of health insurance, health care. This fund is very difficult to fill, there are big problems when it comes to employees, and when it comes to agricultural producers. Realisations are very small when it comes to transfers from the pension fund and the unemployment fund. What can we expect when we talk about all the funds, including the Health Insurance Fund? Who's gonna pay the contribution? Since the DOS came to power, 500,000 people have lost their jobs. Minister Vlahovic sold the best factories, hired new owners. For example, in the Parachinic Cement, where there were 3,000 workers who paid regular taxes and contributions, they had salaries that are about as low as today, the new boss reduced it to 700 workers. Instead of having 3,000 workers in the Health Insurance Fund, we now have 700 workers. Where's the advantage? DOS spoke, must be sold. What's good for who's good for? It's good for the Swiss man who bought the Cementara or the Albanian, we don't know who bought the Cementara. Profit, excess values, he's now related. Maybe Vlahovic will replicate, so to speak, the Paracyns have become rich. Maybe that's true, and let's be true, but it's better if the Paracians got rich than some Swiss, Albanian, etc. This is the essence of this policy and the difference between our policy and the policy led by the DOS. When I talk about agricultural producers, we have at least payments... (President: Excuse me, will you use the other 10 minutes? I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5527	Replica, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5528	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right on line. Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is really hard to explain and enter into a kind of political alchemy in which Serbia's public should be convinced that it is better to have three pension marks, how much they were during the 1990s, or that it is better to have pensions late after a few months, and that instead of money, pensioners get electricity coupons, than to have regular pensions with a height that is significantly different, significantly higher even in comparison with countries that enter the European Union in 2007, I think of Bulgaria and Romania, rather than having an economic policy that meant paying back the residual debt that was inherited from the government that reigned in these areas until 2000. So if you want to be successful in this political alchemy, you have to have arguments that are not arguments. The argument that the predecessor said that 500,000 people were out of work is simply not true. Even when you look at the statistics, you will see that the number of unemployed in 2000, i.e. in January 2001, was 750,000, and today the total number of unemployed people is 936.000. However, what statistics do not include, and what was found in 2001, it is about a million people who formally had jobs without having regular salaries in these jobs, nor was pension and health insurance regularly paid. This alone did not have a registered pension internship, and that is also a huge problem that was brought to the government, which began its job in January 2001. Not to mention the fact that in January 2001, 350,000 employees, those who had a job but not a job, were on temporary, forced vacation, a category that was invented in these areas during the 1990s. As you know, this category, forced rest, according to the Labour Act, doesn't exist today. Therefore, when I say that today there are fewer unemployed people than was found in January 2001, the argumentary analysis is based on the following facts. Today you have 93,000 people looking for a job. In January 2001, you had 750,000 unemployed... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, 750,000 statistically registered unemployed and about a million people who had a job, but not a job. It was unfortunate to select an example of Popovac because Cementara Popovac is just an example of a company that has not paid for years of contributions to pension and health insurance and is an example of a company that has been robbed in the social property system in the 1990s, where there have been over 1,500 executive complaints in the Kragujevac Commercial Court. If it hadn't been for privatisation, I apologize for time overruns, that company wouldn't have worked today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5529	The People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojević, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Toma Busetic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5530	I would like to refer one proposal to the National Assembly, so that we can conclude the debate more effectively on the set of tax laws, which is to extend our working time to the conclusion of the debate on the 8th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5531	I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 95, it did not vote 33, out of 128 members of Parliament present. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5532	There's no quorum in the O.R. to make this decision. You can say whatever you want, there's no quorum in the O.R. to make a decision. That's why the speaker of the assembly immediately joined the vote, so that the other registered MPs who do not want to participate in this I'm not talking to you, young fellow. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] When you get out for the pay phone, I'll talk to you. (President: Mr. Nikolic, be my guest, pay no attention. ) Mr President, the MPs of the SRS did not want to take part in the vote on this proposal. Please reset the system to determine if you have a quorum, because that would only be fair. The moment you have the quorum, make any decision you want, most of the MPs. Without 126 MPs, for fraud, counting and radicals who do not want to participate, do not continue this session. Besides, the MPs are coming in, you might have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5533	Mr. Nikolic, Article 127. - all Members of the Parliament who are in constant work are obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly and to give the quorum. The president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation when the breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised. I don't understand the business of what is part of political life, but there is no business possibility that MPs are calling for that they didn't want to. They are obliged to work and vote for or against. Since I assume you are not satisfied with the explanation, I ask that the Parliament in the voting day be made known about this breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word. The president of the Socialist Radical Party Group is asking us to check... Excuse me, please. I ask everyone for an apology, because at the same time I have a speaker from the mandated representative of the SPS, and I have, according to the Rules of Procedure, a request to check the quorum from the president of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm sorry, I made a lapus. Mr. Bushetić, leave the speaker for a moment, because it is necessary to check the quorum, at the request of the president of the SRS parliamentary group. I ask all MPs to insert their MP cards. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 106 MPs are present in the hall, which is enough for the work of the National Assembly. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You had no voting quorum. ) The quorum for the work of the National Assembly is 84 MPs. The moment the quorum is sought, the quorum for work is checked. The voting quorum, as you know, according to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, 126 MPs and therefore, in order for the previous decision to be voted, was necessary to vote more than 126 MPs and there were 128 MPs present. We have no reason to convince ourselves of such things. Mr. Bushettic, come in, and the National Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5534	Dear People's MPs, I'm advocating Article 97. I was misread. Former Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic and I have known each other for a long time, I can also say that we are friends, longtime acquaintances. No matter how often we talk about many topics, when it comes to this subject and many other political ones, we absolutely disagree, very often it misreads me. This story that sometimes workers at the time of the SPS had only jobs is the wrong story, because it's better to have a job, which marks pay, than to have nothing. Today, four years later, the mass of workers literally has nothing, there's no hope for them. That's the point. When it comes to the salary of three marks at the time of 1993, it only happened that year because of sanctions imposed on us in order to bring to power in Serbia all Western mentors' orders. When it comes to the Paracian Cementar itself, we can ask the workers of Cementara, and those who have gone and those who have stayed, when it has been better. Of course, it was better by 2000, because the 700 workers left, too, have no hope. On the other hand, regardless of what he thought of the union president Smiljanic, he told one truth a few days or nights ago, that out of the thousands of companies that were privatised, at least half the privatisation needs to be annulled. But all parties who promised to review, no one is doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5535	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Živorad Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5536	Dear MPs, the SPS will support this bill. However, I would like to say that some of the problems in the collection of contributions will arise again, as they have been before. Namely, why there were different rates per degree of professional training, it was in our time a kind of such way, and then DOS accepted it. The point of the problem was that the newly-compromised rich people reported all the workers for minimum earnings. They paid the minimum contribution rate and thus damaged the state. Of course, it's probably the ones who taught us in socialism that the state would die, so it needed to be liquidated as soon as possible and thus damaged. We have a few good proposals here in this law. However, what is the problem with pension-inhabitation insurance? The contribution to pension and disability insurance will surely be in such a situation that it will not be able to pay out pensions, because we are a country in which the relationship between those who work and who are pensioners is, unfortunately, 1:1. By solving problems, more social opportunities, we are a country where we have an unnaturally large number of disabled pensioners, which was not essentially a problem of disability but of solving social cases. When it comes to the textile industry, I think this 20 to 30 discharge is good. However, the problem of the textile industry will not be solved by being relieved. As long as our borders are open to unlimited imports, primarily goods from China and Turkey, we simply will not help textile factories, nor will we be able to help them. Also, the idea that when you hire people from 50 and 45 years of age, you allow an employer not to pay two years of contributions is good, but, please, in a normal country people at 50 years of age, they practically end their working life and work hours. What is the biggest opponent of this law and which will continue to recruit new unemployed people is the Privatisation Act, which we didn't have the courage to change at all. In fact, thanks to the Law on Privatisation, the only benefits of it are those tycoons who buy property and those who sell it in the name of the state. Vojislav Kostunica told the speaker in his approach - privatisation must be fair, must be in favour of small shareholders and in favour of the state. This kind of privatisation has no use for small shareholders, and neither does the state, has one group of people. Today we hear from the pay phone that privatisation has stopped. Normally, it stopped because the president of the Privatisation Agency can't fit into current schemes. You can't work here fair. It has to fit in with the tycoons, because that's the only way it'll be accelerated. The moment he wants to do it fair and square, he'll be replaced. I believe it will be removed very soon, because this privatisation is in the function of the tycoon and those who do it on behalf of the government. In the end, I can't understand this government that the place of Minister of Privatisation is unfulfilled. Believe me, the most profitable ministerial post is the privatisation minister. If it weren't for the DSS, but in another party, it wouldn't be free for two minutes, they'd be slaughtered around that place, because it's very profitable, and time will show that I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5537	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let the MP Sanja Cekovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one law, who knows which order, which is carried out by emergency procedure, and there really is no more important difference between the previous Djindjic-Zivkovic regime and this regime that has established this broad coalition. The reasons for passing laws are always similar to that of an emergency procedure. It is said: "It is proposed that, according to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, are adopted by an urgent procedure to ensure its application as soon as possible and with regard to the positive effects for the debtors," and it is said that there would be more money in the funds, more money for the users, etc., and if it is not adopted, some disastrous consequences will arise. If that's so important, I ask you - why we didn't discuss this law in the regular National Assembly meeting, why we were waiting for an extraordinary session. Why were we waiting for this time to pass so that we could pass this law and, in the end, why is Bosnjak, from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, proposed that the application of this law be postponed until 1 September 2004, so we now bring it in by emergency procedure. She can say that there is little time left to pass some sublaw or other laws that would follow this law, why the billmaker did not provide for it in advance in this law, so that the period of that validity is 1 September. I'm telling you on the technical side, how little attention you pay to these details when you propose these laws. Furthermore, precisely because the law is passed by emergency procedure and what is likely to be the minister's haste, and we are unofficially informed that his arrangement at sea starts from tomorrow, when some forecasts improve and weather conditions, he comes here nervous, angry and shouts to the MPs. The minister can't behave like that. We're here to control the minister, look for black under his fingernails, look for "hair in the egg" to control everything he does, us who are representatives of the opposition. He doesn't expect his MP group, whose party boss he is, to oppose this law and demand some changes. On their parliamentary group, within the ruling majority they represent, they have agreed on exactly this form of law. We're the ones who have to tell him to be harsh critics. We are the ones who are always many when the government asks the people, and the government is always the few when it takes away from the people, and many when it gives to the people. We're gonna sort of protect the interests of those that the government is trying to commit to paying more than it's ever been before. After all, one who has the strength is not a good host. Because if he doesn't charge on the principle of volunteering, he's got inspections, the police are gonna charge for it. So, the one who has force is never a good host. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will read you a part of the explanation, where something is said as prescribed by the Serbian Radical Party programme. "The expansion of the basis for payment of contributions fully respects the principle of payment of public revenues towards the economic strength of the debtors, as well as the principle of solidarity and mutuality in social security. Payment of income contributions made in all forms of work defines a higher level of material and social security in cases of social security risks, with the appropriate necessary presence of solidarity." This principle of solidarity and the comprehensiveness of the payment of contributions, in order for them to be lower, is the principle proposed by the SRS in the adoption of earlier laws in this area, whose amendments, unfortunately, have not been adopted and we are unjustly late to pass such a law. I ask - what is Dinkic reformist in, and Serbian radicals, who have proposed such a law a few years earlier, conservatively, are not reformists and are turned to some past. We really can't find much of a problem with this law. However, as for some deadlines, especially in the part concerning the release of the employer from the payment of contributions, we think that the two-year-old is short, that the three-year-old who is obliged not to fire a newly employed 50-year-old worker is also short, because look when someone is 55 and loses his job, who will then hire him? What we pay particular attention to is that there is no principle of volunteering for farmers. These are the people who at least use those services and we think that's where they should have gone with it. We received, as well as all other parliamentary groups, a letter from the Association of Serbia and we are really behind their amendments. This is primarily so that people who perform temporary and occasional jobs are not bonds to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance and unemployment insurance, because these are short jobs, which are sometimes done for several hours, several days, and hard to find among them who will benefit. The second observation is that high fines are justified for employers who do not account for or pay contributions, but the provision to pay the same amount for those who miscalculate or pay the contributions is somehow illogical because it may be a random mistake, not a intention. We are truly grateful and have little reason to be angry with Minister Dinkic's behaviour. As long as Minister Dinkic behaves like this, we will have 80% and 90% of the votes in his Vlasotinc, or 100%, in Belgrade, we will have more and more votes, in Serbia, because they say – we better vote for radicals, they are fairer and more correct, than we are voting for Dinkic, because his behaviour points to a small dictator.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5539	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5540	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a package of tax laws, which on several occasions was addressed to the Assembly for consideration, with these three or four remaining laws, will bring a new picture of tax obligations that taxpayers will pay in the next period. It would be much better and more effective if we could adopt all these laws in one wave, because their application would be more effective and the taxpayers would immediately feel relieved in giving to the state. However, some of them will enter into force on 1 January, and due to your information, I would like to repeat that this assembly has abolished the financial transaction tax, is being applied until 1 January of next year, and therefore the taxpayers will be relieved of large taxes in the following year. I would remind you that the tax on the fund has been abolished since July 1st and that we are already 3.5% less counting and paying for profits. A new tax, which we will adopt, i.e. With VAT, the overall sales tax rate has been reduced from 20% to 18%. Since this is a dominant tax and this reduction will be felt, the very way of paying sales taxes in the following year, somewhere in the middle of the year, will significantly contribute to taxpayers' sense of this very reduction. So, not only in numbers, but also in givings from your current accounts. In this tax package, which we've been considering for a few days, we've talked a lot about VAT. Until this morning, we talked about the company's profit tax, which in its basic principle has a reduction in tax rate from 14%, and nobody can convince us that this reduction is not small and that in this sense it will not be stimulating for the opening of new shops, businesses and for the work of taxpayers through accounts, so that finally, in our country, everything is done through accounts, and that taxpayers will be relieved of the grey economy, and that they can in the way that all countries in the world work to direct their business. We now have before us a law on contributions to pension and disability insurance. None of the 250 MPs can be so malice and say it's not a good law. The bill corrected all the anomalies of the past law and it fully adapts to the economic moment and opportunities of our taxpayers. When I say this, it is important to point out that there are no more eight basics, and they were very burdensome for our taxpayers, because on these grounds, gross contributions and taxes paid on salaries were upgraded, and often they were much greater than the economic power of the taxpayer himself, whether it was a legal person or an entrepreneur. By forming one base, we'll give everyone a chance to pay off their profits. What is the essence of paying off profits is that this law will make sure that payments and net earnings are calculated not only by contributions, but also by people who work in these companies receiving at least a wage that will be minimal. So it's going to be that gross profit. In this law, it is especially important to appreciate the fact that a large number of older people can lose their jobs, as in the municipality from which I come, and I come from Negotina, where the great giant, IHP "Prahovo", who at one point hired over 4,000 people, has now fired, for various reasons, over 2,000 people and they are not found anywhere, because they are 45 to 50 years old. You have to admit that those years aren't very attractive to anyone to start a new job. With the full release of the payment of contributions for people in this period of 45 to 50 years of this law, the state takes over to pay their taxes and contributions, and they as such to be offered, to hire them, at least for a few more years, until these people get the right to their earned pension. The law is fortunately very positive for all of us. It will show all its virtues at the moment of application, and the SPO parliamentary group – New Serbia will be happy to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5541	The People's MP Miroljub Maric came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5542	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to pass on one serious grudge from my voters, friends and members of G17 plus from Alexandrovac before I move on to the Bill of Contribution Law. My parishioners are just angry that the MPs are doing this slowly and sloppyly. It's commendable that we're working in the middle of the summer, but it's unforgivable to work this slow, since we have one big emergency session and 11 agenda points. Let those who slow down work be recognized, not to mention them, and the G17 plus advocates that we work as quickly, more effectively and in this context I will also comment on the draft law on contributions to mandatory social security. This law provides funding for compulsory social security, where we mean compulsory pension, disability, health and unemployment insurance. These contributions represent public revenue, which is controlled by compulsory social security organisations, and this public income is desirable to be as sound as possible, so that the beneficiaries of the funds are adequately satisfied. The law accurately regulates who the bonds are, then the basics of the contributions, the lowest and most basics, the rates of contributions, the cases where the obligation to pay contributions, the accounting, the determination and payment of contributions, the control of the accounts and the payment, which is very significant, and ultimately there are criminal measures for those who do not respect the provisions of this law. There are more good reasons to pass this law. First, this is a very important matter and simply this new law simplifies the system of contributions. It is very important that this law settles all the important issues with one single law, because so far we have had a case of several laws editing this matter, such as that of the one. The Social Security Act, the Law on PIO and the Law on Unemployed Persons. This time we have a law that fully and uniformly regulates this matter. It is very important that this law allows for the spread of the basics to all forms of work, so that by automatically expanding the basics we get the opportunity to get the mass of those who pay the contributions and automatically more efficiently and fill these funds that are necessary for normal work. Furthermore, the law provides for the principle of obligation, but also provides for the principle of solidarity and reciprocity. The institute is introduced with the highest and lowest basics of insurance which is very significant. Multiple health insurance contributions shall be abolished. The earlier law had 13 feet, and now it introduces a single rate for health insurance of 12.3%. I can comment on this rate of 12.3% in the sense that this rate introduces us to the order of the middle countries on the rate of contributions to health insurance. However, we must conclude, in order not to deceive the people, that this contribution rate for health insurance in our conditions is not sufficient because the mass of funds at which this rate is paid is so small and modest that unfortunately it cannot cover the costs of such a massive health care that we have. I'm going to give you an example because I don't want to compromise with predecessors from previous authorities, who say it was good in the '90s, that it was 80s, not my goal, but just for your information, but I've been a doctor for 24 years and I've been through a variety of reforms and various contributions. The problem is this system, our health insurance system, because we've given away health care, developed and upgraded health care, and the contributions, regardless of how decent this rate is, simply don't satisfy even the doctors' salaries themselves. We're going to discuss this problem probably early in the fall with the new health care law, with the new health insurance law, and now I'm going back to this law. We still have an increase in pension and disability insurance rates from 20.6% to 22% and an unemployment rate that rises from 1.1% to 1.5%. I would easily quote Mr. Dinkic here that this unemployment rate after Slovenia is the smallest in Europe. However, given that it was even smaller, we have a chance to climb this rate, and we're going to climb it in a succesively, slowly time-consequent manner, so that it doesn't now burden certain inputs. In addition to increasing rates, it is very important to reduce the fiscal burden for several reasons. First, my previous speaker mentioned, the profit tax of 3.5% was abolished as of July 1st 2004, and earnings were automatically disbursed, with a rate increase of all three bases of this law of 2.2%, so that fiscal discharge is evident. Secondly, one interesting detail about the new law is that it is finished that there is no contribution when no payout is made. It wasn't the case before. So, all those who don't do business, who don't have a profit, are automatically under no obligation to pay for the contribution. The same applies to persons who check out, as well as to farmers who do not pay for insurance. They have no obligation to pay their contributions automatically. Finally, in order not to retain the auditorium in terms of efficiency, I will just point out that this law is a condition for ensuring the harmonisation of the system of contributions at European Union level.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5543	The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, and let the MP Goran Davidovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5544	It seems that some of us want to go back to the communist Union, to just propose the agenda, and there's no discussion, adopt unanimously, and we go home. The main function of parliament is to hold a debate on the proposed points. The present method of determining the contribution seems to be not good for the current minister, since a new concept of collection of contributions is now proposed in this bill. This applies primarily in a way that determines the basis of the contribution. The bill now says that as the lowest monthly base, 40% of the average monthly gross earnings in Serbia are taken. During the payment of earnings, the employer was required under current rules to make the payment of social security contributions up to 30th of the month for the previous month at the amount of the most prescribed basis according to the degree of professional preparation. In this way, employers in some way cut off their contributions by usually applying the employee to a lower level of professional training, i.e. if the employee had a VII degree of professional training, he reported it to the middle degree of professional training and thus caused damage to the employees and the state. The new Social Insurance Act provides for the removal of the basics according to the level of expertise and proposes only one mandatory basis for the calculation and contribution, up to 40% of the monthly earnings achieved in the Republic. The proposal can be seen from the point of view that each employer will pay contributions to the minimum basis, which is the only way that only employees can be in a subordinate situation in the subsequent establishment of a pension base, where the average earnings are taken into account for a certain period of time, i.e. for a certain number of years. What is extremely important to mention in this debate is the fact, and I see that no solutions are proposed on this matter, as regards citizens, primarily the population living in the country, which was once the most burdened and enormized by enormous contributions to pension and social security. Today, there is no such form of collection of contributions, but the majority of households remained a huge debt from the previous period, which was still burdened with interest. The unsettling of this unreal debt today is literally an unsettled problem for most of these rural households, because until it is settled, no other insurance can be realised, in the sense that a member of that household who wants to pay off a self-sustaining health insurance cannot settle that previously made debt. Usually, no one works with these household members, and more and more, since almost half a million people have lost their jobs in the last three years. Perhaps the minister will try to find a solution to these cases in some way, as it must be borne in mind that farmers are literally destroyed and that they do not have the means to settle their earlier debts. They don't have the funds because they're not paid at real price, because it's so harvested cherries, because the raspberries are paid for indemnity, while the state protects buyers. The wheat is estimated at 8.5 dinars, and the prices of repromation for sowing and protection are incomparably jumping, which cannot cover even the basic cost of production, let alone the previously incurred debts. Just because social security funds are empty doesn't mean that they will now be filled in under this new bill by the taxpayer, most of whom could be classified in the category of vulnerable households. The fact is that there are fewer PIO contributions in Serbia today. Most of them are at the unemployment bureau. Also, those who are employed by private employees, there is a situation that traffic is barely positive, so that reduces the number of workers. There was just a word here about the cement factory. I'm one of the former workers of the cement factory, and I can say next. There, by December 2001, some 2,400 workers were employed there, with only 600 employed today, and 300 of them planned in 2007. Many things are questionable if we are to talk about the privatisation process, although there is no point now, but the situation is such that of those 1,900 workers who have lost their jobs, they are barely 900 employees and that they are legally paying their contributions to pension and social security. Perhaps the funds will be filled with criminal provisions as Prime Minister Dinkic believes. I would like to comment on article 74, which directly refers to natural persons, and I would say the most to the farmers of the taxpayers, where they are literally threatened that, if they do not settle their obligations within a given deadline, they will be fined by a fine ranging from 2,500 to 50,000 dinars. Instead of helping the Serbian Ministry and government agricultural producers, they are trying to take the last penny out of their pockets. Finally, I would like to comment briefly in Article 8 paragraph 11 where nuns and monks are listed in health insurance obligations. First of all, out of respect for those guards of our national and cultural heritage, the state of Serbia should free them from any contribution. Does he think that these miserable contributions will be filled with the insurance fund? They keep our sanctities free of charge, restore the old ruins of monasteries, churches, make ends meet, cultivate the sick at several monasteries in Serbia. Grant them health insurance without contributions, because they make their incomes, even though they have them, for the maintenance of those sacred places where they live. Mr. Minister, since he is not here, instead of planning to fill the funds with contributions from workers who have a salary of 4,000 or 5,000 dinars, it might be better to make an effort to collect something from those powerful extraprofessors, with whom he performed in public three years ago or now he forgot them. For them, there are no threats or penalties, only intended for ordinary people, who today are extremely difficult to live in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5545	The People's MP Goran Davidovic has the word, and let the MP Miodrag Djordjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the current legislation that followed mandatory social security was the subject of interpretation in several different laws. For the first time, by adopting such a law, all relevant issues related to mandatory social security are settled in a unique way, and this is in line with the practice of countries with developed market economy, in particular European Union countries. In this way, it is achieved that the system of contributions, financed by compulsory social security, becomes an integral part of our Republic's fiscal system, resulting from the economic and financial content of the contributions representing public revenues. It should be pointed out that the simplification of the contribution system is achieved by equating the basis of the contribution for all types of social security, as well as by reducing multiple rates of contribution in certain forms of compulsory social security. In addition to the basic contribution for the same obligors for all types of compulsory social security, the different categories of obligors balance the level of contribution compared to the base, which is the newspaper in this law. With the principle of solidarity and mutuality in social security, the essence of this law is based on respect for the principle of paying public income towards the economic strength of the debtors, which is one of the important features of this law. Equality with the tax base for labour income tax results in simplification of the contribution system and easier control of the records of payments made and payments made. The principles of obligation, solidarity and reciprocity are the reason that the unifying of the basis of the contribution with the basics of income tax cannot be fully implemented. However, the proposed single minimum monthly base of contribution of 40% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic for all taxpayers, compared to the previous 8% according to the level of expertise, ranging from 37% to 155% of the average monthly earnings in the Republic, is in line with the contributions invested and the rights used on that basis. At the same time, this prevents the abuse of the principle of solidarity as a social security headquarters. Serbian citizens are being removed from the area of health insurance at a multiple rate of contribution and only one rate is proposed for total health insurance rights and one rate for limited rights based on labour injuries instead of the existing 13 feet in this area. The proposed contribution rates aim to reduce the existing financial deficit of compulsory social insurance organisations, which is achieved by increasing revenue from all forms of work by introducing a single health insurance contribution rate of 12.3% instead of the 13 rates mentioned so far, which ranged from 0.8% to 17.7%. For health insurance in case of work injury and occupational illness, in certain cases, a 2% rate is proposed. For unemployment insurance, a 1.5% contribution rate is proposed compared to the previous 1.1%. This law envisions increasing contributions to pension and disability insurance from 20.6% to 22%. Despite the proposed increase in the contribution rate, the overall fiscal policy provides for a reduction of the existing fiscal burden on the debtors as the ultimate objective of the law. (reduction of the obligation to pay the tax on the fund from 1.7.2004). This results in a fiscal discharge of net earnings for employees from 73.8 to 73.1%), and based on independent performances from 73.6% to 69.8% of taxable profits. A significant newspaper in this law refers to the obligation of the employer, which does not foresee that it is obliged to calculate and pay the contribution in case he does not make a profit by the end of the next month, primarily in companies where there is a difficult economic situation and where no profits are paid. The advantage for priests and religious officials, who have so far paid contributions on the basis of the professional preparation of these insurance companies, is that the basis for the contribution has been replaced and will now be at the level of the average earnings in the Republic achieved in the fourth quarter of the previous year. For monks and nuns, the basis of the contribution is set at the lowest monthly basis of the contribution, or 40% of the average earnings in the Republic. For our farmers, the basic contribution is the income from the agricultural activity on which the income tax is paid to citizens. It is below the current minimum health insurance contribution base, which was 50% of the average earnings in the Republic. In the case of disability and physical damage based on occupational injury and occupational illness, the basis of contributions for pension and disability insurance is established, as well as the basis for the health insurance contribution for cases of occupational injury and occupational illness, in accordance with the law, at the level of the minimum monthly basis of the contribution, which is one of the most important features of this law. Instead of the eight minimum monthly basics of the contributions established according to the degree of expertise, which has been the legal solution so far, only one and that is the lowest monthly basis of the contribution has been proposed. In the case where employees do not make full monthly labour fund with the employer, this law applies the amount of the minimum monthly base of contribution for these cases, which is certainly an advantage for the workers. According to the current legislation, entrepreneurs are provided for a minimum monthly base of contribution of 100% of the average income in the Republic, and the application of a single minimum base of contribution of 40% of the average earnings in the Republic will result in significant fiscal redundancies among those involved in old crafts, jobs in the field of folk work, craft work and other enterprise businesses. Persons over the age of 50 and 45, who are at least one year of age, who are in the National Employment Service with the status of recipients of a cash refund based on unemployment or registered as unemployed, for a period of at least one year without interruption, shall be subject to relief for the employer who is seen in the release of contributions to the employer's burden on persons over 50 years of age, or payment of that contribution at a reduced rate of 80% for persons over 45 years of age. The Fund for Mandatory Pension and Disabilities Insurance will have an increase in expenditures, some 50m dinars are expected to rise due to the health insurance rate for pensioners in 2004. On the other hand, an increase in income from a contribution of 200 million dinars is expected due to an increase in the rate of contribution. In this way, a positive net effect on the fund balance is expected. It has been estimated that the National Employment Agency will increase its contribution to 900m dinars, which will ensure better work of this service. In any event, the conclusion is that by adopting such a law, we achieve a simplification of the system of contributions, an increase in income from contributions by equating different forms of work with regard to the obligation to pay contributions and the dissemination of the basis of contributions, a fiscal reduction of earnings for employers with the lowest fiscal strength (i.e. low employee earnings), a reduction of the grey economy, better control and more efficient payment of contributions. For all these reasons, the DSS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5547	The People's Messenger Miodrag Djordjevic has the word, and let the Messenger of Ispanović Istvan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that farmers, or citizens who deal exclusively with agricultural production, are a very vulnerable category. The results in agricultural production depend not only on their work and activity. There are many factors affecting this - drought, rain, low ransom prices, livestock diseases can destroy the whole year’s work of farmers. On the other hand, both the previous and this government have done so that many businesses have failed, sold at a great deal of prices, and workers have lost their jobs. Workers return to the country, to family estates, and there they try to provide the existence for themselves and their families. Such people should be encouraged, state measures should stimulate their return to the country, make it easier for them to cope and to lose their jobs. The measures can be different, starting with one-time aid for the purchase of necessary machinery, favourable loans for the purchase of seed material and the purchase of a stock fund. One measure must also be to stimulate social security contributions. I therefore advocate that the returnees, or those workers who have lost their jobs, return to the countryside and start with agricultural production, are further stimulated, something similar to those of employers who are starting a working relationship with persons over 45 years of age. I fully suggest that the National Employment Service pays contributions to this category of people, within which it can be considered appropriate and which will stimulate the return to the countryside and the development of agriculture. Low prices and unorganised purchases of agricultural products, this government does not help farmers, but exporters of agricultural products and purchasers. That, as evidence, it can serve to harvest and buy the famous cloudy cherry in the Meroshin municipality. After the blockade of international roads, producers were invited to talk in the Serbian government about the agreement on the price of cherry. An agreement has been reached to make the price of cherry 23 dinars first class and second class 18 dinars. However, that was not the case in the field. Many orchards in Merošin municipality remained defenseless or producers threw cherries at dumps, dissatisfied with such low ransom prices. Instead of stimulating manufacturers, the government stimulates exporters from 7% to the total amount exported. Gentlemen in the government should pay more attention to agriculture, because when taxes and self-deliveries are set aside, peasants are there. When it comes to defending the state, the peasants are here. When it comes to getting organized to join the army, the villagers are there, and when it comes to helping the peasant, that's where the government closes its eyes. With agricultural production this ruined, if you destroy agriculture, and you're on your way to do so, Serbia has no salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5549	The People's MP Išpanović Istvan has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared Slavisa Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5550	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on contributions to mandatory social security and it seems that there has been little criticism under this law. Some MPs use a pay phone to express some general criticism, start with privatisation and beyond, because the law is obviously good and there are no more serious grudges. That's why the G17 Group will support this bill, and I hope the other MPs will do the same. In the opening statement, Mr Minister cited a number of reasons for the adoption of this law, such as simplifying the system of contributions, equating different forms of contributions, significant redundancies of the economy and entrepreneurs, reduction of the grey economy, etc. I would add another reason, which is to create a more favourable climate for foreign investment. Namely, I had the opportunity as president of a municipality to often talk to potential foreign investors, and they are, among other reasons, instructions and that we have a complicated system, a complicated administration. Of course, our country will be more attractive to foreign investors if we have a lower labour price, or cheaper labour. This law means that it will stop certain provisions of the current laws, namely the Law on Health Insurance, the Law on PIO, as well as the Law on Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment. In the beginning, a debate was launched on when the provisions of the Health Insurance Act were adopted, about the different rates of contribution. Since the MP who started the debate about it is not present, on some of my principles that I always adhere to, I will not raise that question, but I know that the amendment of the law was passed in 1998 or 1999. Since I was an MP, I remember when those provisions were incorporated into the Health Insurance Act. I'd just like to stick to some of the provisions that I consider to represent a significant newspaper in this system. Certainly, it is a reduction in the existing fiscal burden on contributors, starting on 1 July of this year. It has already been said that profit payments reduce contributions from 73.8 to 73.1 and also from self-employed taxpayers to reduce, in particular, the reduction due to the withdrawal of the 3.5 per cent income tax. Also, I believe that the paper and legal solution prescribed by the employer's obligation to account for and pay only in the case of real payoffs, not whether or not the salaries are paid. I would also like to point out one provision that allowed the grey economy, i.e. the use of labour on the basis of the labour contract, because this institution has often been abused because a smaller contribution was paid on this basis, and workers working under the labour contract do not have all the rights they have so far, so I think that a good solution, no matter how busy someone is, is to pay the same contributions. Also, I think it's a very important paper about paying contributions to people who are admitted who are over 45 or 50 years old. The practice in transition countries indicates that when someone loses their job and is 40, 45, 50, that, in practice, they do not return to the process of work, but remains permanently unemployed until they get conditions for retirement. That's why I find it a very good solution not to pay a contribution for workers who are employed from the labor bureau after 50 years of age. I think, unfortunately, we're going to get into this situation that we're going to have these workers who won't be able to get back to work unless these conditions are secured. I hope you vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5551	The People's MP Slavisa Slavkovic has the word, and let the MP Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and we are passing this law by emergency procedure. It is a constant practice in the work of this government and thus differs from the previous one. Without work, people who have reduced their working and health skills during the working century must be treated with special care. In Article 45. The proposal for a law on contributions to compulsory social security, the proposer - the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes some sanctions for employers who employ persons over 50 years of age and 45 years of age, who are on the day of the conclusion of the contract at the National Employment Service and who have the status of users of financial benefits during unemployment or are registered as unemployed for at least a year without interruption. Namely, for persons over 50 years of age with whom the employer has concluded a labour contract, the employer shall be exempt from the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory social security, which is paid on the basis of, or on the burden of, the employer. This right to non-payment of contributions shall be exercised within a period of two years from the date of establishment of the employment relationship of the employee. For persons over 45 years of age, this right means reducing 80 per cent contributions, it is also applied for two years. The security measure of workers is also foreseen by the employer being obliged to pay the contribution he would normally pay when the employee stops working during the relief period, as well as for a period of three years after the expiry of the time limit in which the reliefs are applied. It may be a punishment for unconscious employers, but it will help the workers who remain unemployed in such a way. Imagine the employer hiring a 50-year-old person and keeping him in a working relationship for five years means during the time of relief and three years after that, and then breaking the contract of work. So, a 55-year-old worker loses his job again, because there is no stimulation that will force the employer to hire a person at the age of 55. I therefore think that these deadlines should be extended to at least five years of payment of contributions to persons over 50 years of age, i.e. a reduction of 80 per cent for persons over 45 years of age, and the deadlines for additional protection of employees in this lifetime should be extended to the exercise of pension rights on any basis. Without these measures, we'll have even more problems than we've had so far. If you work, we are sure that the loss of jobs will hit the largest number of employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5553	The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Blagoja Krajinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5554	Ladies and gentlemen, I need to get a little closer to distracting you, because no one here is hearing, no one is listening, so it would be good to hear from you. I'm going to talk about this law from another aspect, because I didn't want to deal with percentages or any numbers. I left it to my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, in which I have complete confidence, because there are all kinds of professions, smart people, capable of telling experts, because that word is kind of my side. I'll talk about what's touching me, in a way, with three aspects. Since I'm interpreting art, since I'm a believer and I come from the village, I'm going to talk about these three groups that are taxed to pay their contributions. I'll start with the artist. On the Committee on Culture and Information, which is not my duty to interpret here, we had a letter in the form of amendments in which the artist, or ULUS, asks to be particularly taxed by artists. Finally, they say -- the basis of contributions for independent artists or cultural workers, as well as the way in which they determine and pay contributions to prescribe their act by a mandatory social security organisation, to which consent is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's okay and you should keep that in mind. I'm standing on the side of independent artists. As for believers or clergy and monasticism, I think they should fall into the ranks of those who volunteer for these contributions. Perhaps the situation in monasticism and clergy will improve when the time comes for confession. They may be denied the extra profit tax when the entire DOS comes to confess for everything he's done to the people this year. So far, they are not able to pay these contributions, nor is it possible to find some standard that can determine that rate of contribution, so let them be left to decide for themselves. As far as farmers are concerned, they should be classified as a group that voluntarily and voluntarily provides for themselves and the family, i.e. to choose the insurance rate according to the power of their household. One amendment has been submitted here, and I hope it will be discussed and accepted. It would be a good thing if this law was passed to the end and implemented, so that we wouldn't get into a situation where red tape does whatever it wants. I happened to have an article saying, "and the dead have to pay taxes." It's a peasant Radoj Nikolic from the village of Zavina near Bajina Basta, whose wife says, "Uncle Radoju's father died 24 years ago, wife seven years ago, and mother per six years and day is asking him to pay contributions to dead souls." Therefore, when this law is passed, and I hope it will be adopted, take care of a little documentation with these laws, and with the voter lists, and the Serbian Radical Party will certainly take care of it when it comes to power. Furthermore, one part of this law refers to what some praise, and I don't want to brag about it. It's said, if there's no payout, it's in the explanation, there's no obligation to pay the contribution. The obligation to pay contributions, as well as the obligation to tax, comes to employers with a payday. In most cities, as well as in Priboj where I come from, workers don't work or receive salaries, which means they don't get a pension internship. Most politicians come to Priboy. I'd like to comment here, as my colleague Lune says - brothers and sisters, don't come to Priboy at the factory and don't make any empty promises. It's not a voice factory, it's a truck factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5555	Blagoja Krajinović came to the word, and let the messenger of the people, Stevica Dedjanski, be prepared. The People's Messenger Blagoja Krajinovic is not present, the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5556	Gentlemen, since the head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has said the party's position, I will just say a few things that have initiated me to comment. That's mostly some of the words you're talking about. These are -- revenue increases, grey economy cuts, better control, etc. In the light of the proposal for a law on contributions to compulsory social security, you stated: "The basic reasons for the adoption of this law are: simplifying the system of contributions, increasing the income of contributions by equating different forms of work with regard to the obligation to pay for contributions and the dissemination of the basis of contributions, the fiscal redundancies for employers with the lowest fiscal strength, i.e. the low earnings of employees, the reduction of the grey economy, better control and more efficient payment of contributions". You usually mention ways to increase income, as well as in other laws, so you're trying to make up for all of this with various intrusions. I just wanted to point out to you and the citizens of Serbia who listen to this, that it would be better to start the business of Serbia, to take off your famous chains and locks, that people are working and there will be no problem with paying these and other contributions. It is said to contribute to reducing the grey economy. We know that all you're thinking about is shutting down small and small privates who don't report workers for a month or two days, until they see if they can survive in this environment, and the other big systems never touch you. I repeat, you'd better do something, but as you're doing, it's better if you don't do anything and let someone who knows how to start production, get people back to work, because our citizens are eager to work, get paid for this job, so they don't work for nothing, so you'll see how that grey economy you're talking about shrinking. You'll see how people themselves go for fleas and other places where they deal with the gray economy, where they have no internships, no social, no pensions. In the four years that DOS is in power, in Vrsac from which I come, you have closed a lot of "healthy" companies, not to list them all. We have one objection, why is it mandatory to have agricultural insurance? It is also said to be a function of providing better conditions for the development of agriculture and for the remaining of young people in the country as a general interest. If you really cared about it, you would have provided, any normal government would have done it, if the purchase prices of agricultural products were right. And that's probably what they'd pay for right now. You wouldn't pay, as you are now paying the raspberries, which is now current, 50 dinars, you might pay for the grain, and maybe you won't, and you wouldn't import the meat and then force the peasants to sell and no longer grow cattle. Well, then you advise him, and people complain about when we go around the villages, that he's growing chinchillas and Noahs. It is recommended – call your senses at least a little and save at least a little face. Our citizens deserve it because they've been putting up with you in power for four years, and even for a minor accident that could have happened to them for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5557	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5558	Just this morning, in my presentation, I commended the minister that he had fallen asleep, rested and came to listen to the MPs, and I see he was gone again. Looks like he got a little tired. He left his purse, though, to assume he'd come back. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, preparing for a discussion on this bill, I have examined it and encountered several illogicalities, not to say nebulosis. I wish the minister was here to explain them to me. The law, by the way, is good in one part. That's the part of the bill they prescribed when the minister wasn't there. The minister would've done a lot better if he'd given the daktilographer to mechanically beat that law and then there would have been no such mistakes. But let's take it in a row. In the part relating to taxpayers' contributions, Article 7, the minister lists who all the pension and disability insurance bonds are, and says: employees, elected and appointed persons... And imagine the farmers. Why would farmers be obliged to pay pension and disability insurance? What farmers get from the state in return, so that the state can impose this obligation on them in some way on them. Pension and disability insurance can only be on a voluntary basis and never again. Furthermore, the minister lists: 9) persons who make the agreed fee; 10) stand-alone artists; 11) priests... and in point 13) says – domestic citizens employed abroad. The state of Serbia has citizens who have been working abroad for years. We used to call them Gustrabiters, and thanks to one reform, even Brozov, a good part of them went abroad. They pay social, pension and disability insurance to the countries where they work. They can only be obliged to pay pension and disability insurance if there is a double taxation prevention agreement with the country in which they work. Only in this case can you charge people who work abroad for pension and disability insurance. In Article 8 relating to contributions to the compulsory health insurance system, point 8 again – farmers, or farmers. I wish the minister were here to explain to me the difference between farmers and farmers. Isn't that what farmers do, and isn't that what they do with agriculture? I don't think this is a dactylograph's fault. It's more like it's a minister's mistake. Furthermore, domestic citizens are employed abroad. My objection is also to this point 13) as well as to former pension and disability insurance – only if there is an agreement between our country and the country in which they work to prevent double taxation. Point 14) Foreign pensioners. If a foreign pensioner spent the entire century abroad, got a pension and probably dragged into this country with that pension, to spend the last year of his life in it, let's now charge him both pensions, disability and social security. I can't help but understand that, as it is said - foreign pensioners, health insurance bonds in the mandatory health insurance system. One more thing you didn't mention here, which is very important -- foreign citizens working with us. In doing so, I don't mean embassies, foreign companies, or detached workers who work with us, but I mean people from abroad, foreign citizens who are employed in businesses and social organisations in Serbia. In particular, I think you're about to drop a military advisor by this law. He was adviser and Minister Tadic, and now Minister Davinic, General Major General of the English Intelligence Service M-6. I don't know his name, but we have information that he's gay and you took care of him, by the way. I'd like to do a session, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you why Minister Stojkovic, i.e. why the military judiciary only prosecutes the former chief of justice during Slobodan Milosevic, Chief of Staff, for the little documents he brought out in the bag and brought to the Saric motel, when you let General Major General of the English Intelligence Service go to the Ministry of War to pick up all the documentation. Let's move on, I would like the minister to explain to me what he meant under this sentence – a monthly basis (please listen carefully, perhaps you will learn something) of the contribution cannot be lower than the lowest monthly basis. So how can it be, if this is the lowest, how some monthly base can be lower than the lowest. It's normal. It's supposed to be normal. Next, and this law, like all the laws you've proposed so far, contains a section relating to criminal provisions. You wrote this way: "For the actions referred to in Article 1 (and this is the article 72 which says – the fine of 100,000 million dinars will be punishable for the violation of a legal person.... in Articles 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, paragraphs 1 and 60 of Article 3. They will be punished for the offence and for the responsible person in the legal face, with a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. "He thinks of the directors, the accountants, those who need to be accounted for, approved and paid these contributions. Not to count all these fines, I'm interested in something else. If the director or head of accounting doesn't have the money and can't pay this fine of 50,000 dinars, he's in prison under our legislation. There are so many economic operators who won't be able to pay for this, and normally you're going to lock up these business entities, and legal and physical persons, or directors in prison. So you'll fill all the prisons, Mr. Minister, no matter what he's not here, but he's probably listening from a corner somewhere. But where are we going to put you when one day you come down from power? We'll have to make new prisons for you and for you alike. One more question and I'll finish it. How is it that Minister Dinkic reduced pensions by 5% last month and that administrative workers in the Assembly also received a lower net salary of 5%, and will everyone now receive less 5% in Serbia? To explain to Serbian citizens where the 5% he has taken from citizens, employees and pensioners this time goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5559	The People's MP Vjerica Radeta has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5560	Ladies and gentlemen, to this day I was convinced that the National Assembly has a Rules of Procedure on Labour, though undemocratic, restrictive, bad, but Rules of Procedure. However, as of today, I see that the Rules of Procedure are gone, but we just don't know who decreed it, obviously, abolished it. Why am I saying that? Because today's first hurt was the dignity of the National Assembly when it was said here that MP Dragisa Djokovic asked Nebojsa Covic to buy an apartment of six million dinars. That's not true, he asked for $5.5 million. Furthermore, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic spoke here today to 69 MPs, meaning no quorum, and the speaker of the assembly allowed him to tell lies about the MPs in this parliament and did not react. At the end of the quorum, on the proposal of Ksenija Milivojevic, the MP, a decision was made here to work up to the firewall, I don't know until when it doesn't matter, and Mrs Milivojevic suggested it, voted, so there was no quorum, no reset system, and she puts a backpack on her shoulder and leaves this hall at 16.30 p.m. After that, a colleague from her party told the speaker that some MPs who care about delaying work in this parliament should be recognised, and he and his party are for some more efficient and faster work. We know that he and his party are for work over the knee, but we Serbian workers for serious work, and that's exactly how we approach the work in this parliament. The law on contributions to mandatory social security, which the government has offered us to consider and adopt, is a fact that it is better than Djelic's, but it is also a fact that it is much like that law that was in force before DOS came to power. At the time when this law was passed, which was passed by the previous assembly, on the proposal of the previous government and the previous minister, the SRS MPs pointed to two key things that we claimed were inapplicable, which we claimed were absolutely to the detriment of Serbian citizens and to the harm of the economy in Serbia, and here we are now in a four-year situation that the current minister and the current government were silently acknowledging that the SRS group was then right. Then we said that eight bases couldn't be applied, that it was unacceptable, and then we said that they couldn't pay off the contributions before the employees paid off. At that time, the parliamentary majority did not listen to us, and then the government did not listen to us. I can argue that's why they're now filling only two last lines past that door to get out of this Parliament. In addition to the fact that this bill is actually not something too bad, but in any case it's much better than the one that's in force to date, there are a few things that need to be distracted. I hope that, taught by the experience I just spoke of, you will accept our remarks and finally bring to this area a regulation that will really serve its purpose. Already in Article 5, you say, "If the contributions made by this law are in a different way governed by another law, the provisions of this law apply. "This should certainly be deleted because there is no other law. What other law is that? It's not the Energy Act, is it? Furthermore, in Article 7, you are talking about pension and disability insurance bonds and in the first point of point 3 you have predicted that they are persons performing temporary and occasional business under a contract concluded directly with the employer, etc. We in the SRS don't think this should stand, because we all know from experience that these are temporary and occasional jobs that last two days, five days, 14 days, to work through student or similar cooperatives, and we just don't think it would be right to pay these contributions on these jobs. When it comes to farmers, we from the SRS are absolutely against that they have an obligation to pay these contributions. We believe it is necessary for farmers to be allowed voluntary insurance. Who can do this will certainly pay off these contributions, but unfortunately, as this government pays them agricultural products, I'm not sure they'll have to buy food, let alone pay their contributions. The next Article 8 discusses contributions to health insurance. We also think that we should delete people who do temporary and occasional jobs for the same reason, farmers for the same reason and still stand here - farmers, or farmers. It's a simple unnecessary separation. In point 11), mandatory contributions to health insurance are foreseen for monks and nuns. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this is completely inappropriate. We all know that because of tradition and the way the monk and the nun live, they don't usually use health services. They treat themselves with traditional medicine. There are all between 180 and 200 in Serbia. Of course, if they're not being treated, Mr. Aligrudic, traditional medicine, they should be allowed, if they want, to make a contribution, but not to be obliged. They are between 180 and 200 in Serbia, and I don't believe that it means anything to Serbia's budget, regardless of the fact that this minister is doing everything just to get as much funding into the budget as possible, and he doesn't care how much it costs Serbian citizens. Also, contributions bonds are employers for employees during the unpaid leave. I don't think there's any point in this, and it's unnecessary to stand in this law, because this is exactly what this law that preceded this law, which has brought the previous National Assembly's convocation, to pay the contribution, even if the salary is not paid. If there's no pay, it's logical and normal that there's no contribution. Furthermore, in Article 12, you say, "When an insurance company generates income from a number of different basics, contributions are calculated and paid on all these grounds, up to the maximum annual basis of the contribution, in accordance with this law. "We think that this is not a good solution, that it should only be paid on one basis and that it is the highest basis. "The basis of the contribution (as referred to in Article 13) for employees and employers, wages and wages are made in accordance with the law governing labour, general act and contract of employment, i.e. the decision of the competent authority. "This can't stand. This is regulated by law and there are no further contracts, no solutions, etc. In Article 25, the basis of contributions for independent artists, the way in which the contributions are determined and paid shall be agreed by ministers. Don't let the ministers, please. Come on, let's regulate these things by law and that no one can manipulate, that no one can abuse their function. In article 26, you say, "The base of contributions for priests and religious officials is the average monthly earnings in the Republic paid in the fourth quarter of the previous year... "And why not make money? Because you know their profits are less than their average. We think it's wrong and it needs to be regulated differently. The amount of the minimum monthly earnings referred to in Article 38(2) should be deleted because this is already regulated in the position of the 1st of this same member, as should the position of Article 2 43, where the nominal amount of the most annual basis, in accordance with Article 2, is said to be deleted, shall be announced by the Minister responsible for financial affairs. I'm simply creeping myself out of all the powers that you're giving to Minister Dinkic, and what's known about his work is so much that he's obviously already ready not to be a minister, let alone that his powers are still being extended along with the one he's got so far. The last position of Article 45 is completely unnecessary, because it has already been arranged, and talks about the way and procedure of applying the provisions of this member by agreement, that the minister is again in charge of financial affairs and the minister in charge of work and employment. The calculation and determination of the payment of contributions, as regulated by Article 51, and here we have certain objections on persons performing temporary and occasional tasks, i.e. on the contracted fees for temporary jobs. And in article 54, you say, "The account and payment of the contribution for the unpaid person on leave, the employer is obliged to make the payment of the earnings to other employees. "This, I've already spoken of, is about article 51, and it can't stay that way, because it's not fair. Article 62(2) does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since it provides that an educational institution where foreign citizens are located in education or professional training cannot carry out the enrolment of those persons on education, on an over-semester basis, or approve another form of professional training, unless it proves that they have paid a contribution, because the state has other mechanisms. This violation of the constitution through the law is inadmissible. What you have provided for in Article 68 concerning the power of the Minister must be exclusive jurisdiction provided for by law, as well as the provision of Article 70, where it says that, according to the regulations governing compulsory social security, the payer is obliged to notify the tax administration of the contributions paid. It's regulated by this law and there's no need to expand. There are criminal provisions in Article 72, and that is the manner of this government, apparently this National Assembly. So, "a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if, as an employer or another payer of income, at the same time as a payoff" does not pay for these contributions. And of course he has to pay them, he has to respect the law, but the fine of 100,000 dinars to 1,000 dinars, whether you laugh or not, all the laws that are on your agenda are just new chains and locks for the Serbian economy. Article 76 provides for retroactivity. My colleagues well know that the law cannot be applied retroactively, and Article 76 provides that "employees who have made the payment of a part of the earnings for the previous month until the date of entry into force of this law and after the entry into force of this law shall make the payment of the second part or the final payment of the earnings for that month shall be obliged to account and pay the contributions to those payments in accordance with this law. "They're not with this, they're with the one who was in effect at the time they made that payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5561	The word is made by MP Milan Stevovic, and let the MP of the people, Nemanja Sarovic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5562	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, social security contributions are the most important form of security in every modern country of the world and Europe, including us. For these reasons, we believe that it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive codification of existing and diversified legal rules that regulated the area of social security, the area of social security collection, i.e. contributions to PIO and health insurance. When we talk about PIO, health insurance and unemployment insurance, we think that these categories are very important for the lives of each individual, but also for the community in general. In modern sociology, there is an understanding that if this is well solved, so much is well solved and relations in the country. Insurance can be both mandatory and academical, and the higher the degree of social development, the more extensive it is in this area. I believe that this bill has been sufficiently balanced by mandatory and optional insurance, i.e. the university and the obligation. When I go into the analysis of this law, first of all, I'd say that it's not the clearest thing for me to do is to get this law passed. The aim of this law is to protect the individual interests of the individuals of this country, and I can accept that. On the other hand, it seems to me that there has been a war between a legion or a goal of passing this law in some way and a kind of intervention in the country's budget. We have a general rule that very often we have donations and spending funds from the budget into social security funds. In that area, I think it's a PIO and health insurance fund, but it's also an unemployment insurance. We believe that what was happening with us shouldn't be a rule and that this law is going to make it easier to make all of this right. This should be a kind of exception, but it must not be a constant practice in our country. When we talk about two of the most important segments of this law, we must also say that it is about a slight increase in contributions, as the legislator himself said, and that the spectrum of the basics of the contribution is expanding. If we analyze this slight increase in the rate of contribution, we can say that the health insurance contribution rate is now determined to 12.3%, instead of 13 feet in one diapazone from 0.8% to 17.7%. We think this solution is more favourable, but this solution will still make citizens feel on their shoulders. The second thing, we're talking about the contribution rate for PIO insurance from 20.6% to 22%. Also, unemployment insurance from predicted and current 1.1% goes to 1.5%. All of this, and with the expansion of the base of the taxpayers and the cases covered by this tax, we have to characterise and call the right name, which is that there seems to be another procedure in the economy and towards citizens who carry out such activities, comes to pay and earn. I'd just point out a few things that are unclear to me here. First of all, I would ask the minister to explain to us Article 25 relating to the obligation, i.e. the basis by which they pay their contributions to PIO and health insurance by independent artists. I read this article on the 25th, and it wasn't clear to me, and then I turned to the explanation and in it the same article was prescribed, there's not a single word added. So I ask that this article be made more clear. But the article leaves one discretionary right for the foundation to be agreed unanimously and unanimously by three ministers, namely the finance minister, the health minister and the labour minister. I'd like to get an answer to this question. I think it's a very important fact that there's been a change, that temporary and occasional contracts are equated with a working relationship. This, on the one hand, will also have positive effects, so that it will be included in the retirement and disability internship of certain persons working under the contract of work or dealing with similar jobs, but on the other hand, I also have to say that the price of work they are going to work on will certainly be the lowest. The employer who decides to carry out certain contractual transactions under the sea labour contract will certainly lower the labour price if he is obliged to pay these rates of contributions to pension, disability and social security. In the end, I'd still say two very important things. The first is that this law and lowering so-called. fiscal discharges should not be linked to the adoption of a law on a fund of earnings. Under this law, the profit fund has been reduced by 3.5% and we have already said that this law has entered into force, and we have already said that this law has a minus, or deficit in the budget of 6.5 billion to 7 billion in the first half of the application. In this time of July 1st to December 31st, we will have a minus in the budget of 7 billion dinars, which the citizens have already covered or will cover it through the adopted Excise Act. We've brought excises on fuel twice. So from where we're going to replace what we're talking about here. We can't explain it to the people, and we can't present to the citizens the situation that it isn't. What's justified here, they've already paid for it or they'll pay through the Excise Act. So I think what's said is that fiscal discharge from 73.8% goes to 73.1% and that's a total of 0.7%, is a very small discharge, provided this is bound to pass the law -- a tax on a fund of earnings. Therefore, I think the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition have said something completely different. I'd like to thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5563	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Nedeljkovic. You have 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5564	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as we can see, the Assembly is working, the meeting is taking place, although it is currently 18.25 hours. I would ask the chairman to answer me - is this a new practice that is being introduced into the work of the Assembly, did the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly cease to be in force, are we now working on ad hoc rules such as the Hague Tribunal, will we change the rules we are working on from day to day, or will we sometimes return to the rules of the Rules of Procedure? Last night, the president of the National Assembly broke his harsh rules of procedure by giving Mr. Mladjan Dinkic the word, although time has passed for the work of the Assembly. Because, I'll remind you, article 81 determines that the National Assembly works from 10.00 a.m. to 1800 hours, and if you wanted to extend the work, you had to collect the quorum here first, and only then allow your minister to insult the MPs of the SRS in a later period of time. That, Mr. Markovic, made it possible for Minister Mladjan Dinkic to insult the MPs even after the end of the work of the National Assembly... (President: Mr. Sarovic, under Article 99, please return to the topic. If you'd like to speak to the Rules of Procedure, come in and you'll get your word. I'm talking about the subject. Then, Mr. Markovic, the next time Mladjan Dinkic speaks out of the question, when he insults the MPs, when he talks about this law that we now amend Seselj's law, because it was brought in during the 1990s, then you, Mr. Chairman, warn him, tell him - no, Mr. Minister, this is the National Assembly. You are a guest here, you have come to the MPs, the MPs have been so correct and they have shown such a degree of democracy that they have let you speak to them, so don't insult them, remember that you are only a clerk, that you are a minister only because the ruling majority of you in the National Assembly have authorized you to be a minister. The fact that you're the minister, it's just for the moment. The minister should not forget for a moment to address elected representatives of citizens, who, in any case, are something he will never be. Also, it's interesting that there is no Miss Ksenija Milivojevic here right now. It's the lady who suggested that it be done until the debate on these two points of the agenda, and who then went to her place, took her things and left. If you are already talking about the effective work of the National Assembly, then you should explain to us why the meetings never begin in the afternoon before 11:00 p.m., and why this afternoon the session started at 4:00 p.m. Such practice has been repeated for days and it is clear that you do not have a majority, because not only today, when deciding on an extension of working time was not 126, but you will never be able to get 126 again, because for you and 84 MPs every morning and every afternoon represents something that is completely unattainable. The next time you really want to do this, when you want to discuss the laws that are on the agenda, prepare yourself for those laws the way the MPs of the SRS did, come on time, because every day at 10.00 in the morning, in front of the session hall, only the SRS MPs stand. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is evident that this law was not written by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, it is seen from what he said when he explained this law, because he did not speak at all about the law and it is the best evidence that he does not know this matter at all, but because of this he was based on Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who is in The Hague, who is even from The Hague, where he is successfully fighting The Hague court, an insolvent enigma for many, and therefore also for Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. One of the few members who probably wrote by Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is a 36th member who speaks of the lowest monthly base of contribution, where he says: "The monthly basis of the contribution cannot be lower than the lowest monthly basis of the contribution. "The second attitude says - if the basis of the contribution is lower than the lowest base. How can it be lower if in the first article he says he can't? So, obviously, we're admitting to this member, Mr. Dinkic, you wrote it. He's so incomprehensible and he's against himself, there's no speech here, it's an act of your own right now. You may be lost in translation, though, but my God. There are good things in this law, but unfortunately, there are some things that aren't good. It's, for one thing, in the insurance of farmers. The SRS thinks this insurance should be voluntary, because farmers, especially in rural areas, do not have enough resources. They rarely come down to the cities to sell what they produce, households are mostly nursing. What is produced is mainly produced for their own purposes. There are very few surpluses that they can take to the market and very few ways they can get the money. For this reason, these people should not be burdened with mandatory contributions. The following thing, and the problem existed in previous laws, unfortunately, is not resolved by this law either, is that private entrepreneurs – I will remind you that under the concept of the entrepreneur are considered to be individuals who carry out their own business, professional or other activity in accordance with the law, on the basis of which they pay the income tax on citizens on their own account – if because of the current conditions of business, because they cannot currently collect their claims, they do not have the money to pay contributions for health, pension and disability insurance, they cannot overwrite their health books, unless the tax administrations provide confirmation that they have settled all their expenditures. What's left of these people? They're left with that, if they're sick, they go to private doctors to pay for their own treatment. They can't do that, for exactly the same reason they couldn't pay for health insurance contributions, and that's because they don't have any money. Another way is not to heal, to fail, to wait for them to obtain funds, to verify the book, and to exercise their right. The other thing is that during that time, when private entrepreneurs are not certified health books and cannot use health services based on insurance, they continue to, because they are doing some work, the obligation to pay contributions is running. So, from month to month, the government, as we've heard, is charging them green interest for the period they're late to pay. Then the question arises why do these people pay afterwards and contribute to health, pension and social security, if they could not actually use services in that period. Why do they even pay anything later? So, if you're already making it impossible for someone to use health services based on health insurance, then it would be essential to say – for that period in which you didn't have certified books, in which you couldn't use the services, you don't have to pay any contribution. Instead, in its well-known manner, the government decided that these people, who have already been punished twice, could not, on the other hand, use health services for contributions they have to pay and do not pay for them, and on the third hand, have prescribed by the Government in criminal provisions that those who pay irregularly are punished. So he says, "A fine of 100,000 to a million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if, as an employer or another payer of income, at the same time as the payoff of earnings or other income, that is, within the prescribed time limit, it does not account or pay the wrong billing and pay the contributions." A million dinars in today's situation in Serbia's economy, here, says the DSS gentleman that is nothing. It may be nothing for you, but for the citizens of Serbia, it is a lot. How much money can be paid for a million dinars. Is it appropriate to punish someone who does not fulfil the obligation of perhaps 30, 40, or 50 thousand dinars for several workers by paying ten times or thirty times the amount of a million dinars? Is that social justice, is that reviving the economy you're telling us about? Next, article 73 says, "The fine of 2,500 to 250,000 dinars will be fined by the offender if he does not make the payment of the contribution or the payment of the contribution does not take place within the prescribed time limit." Here, I remind you once again, it is about people who are legally operating, who have reported to the state what they are doing, who are regularly paying business premises, who pay corporate tax, who pay value added tax and all the other taxes that the state has put on their backs. So that message that you send through this law and through other laws is simply that people don't have to respect the state, that it's much better to take out a cardboard box on the street and sell their goods off a cardboard box, because in that case they won't fall under the hit of these laws, or anyone who asks for a value added tax, or anyone will tell them – because you're late for payment or you didn't pay them well, you'll pay 250 thousand dinars. What are the reasons why someone should not pay those contributions today? No one today, gentlemen, has to repeat that, refuses to pay contributions to health insurance from the whim. Those who don't have enough money, they don't pay. I guess that's clear today. I don't think there's any need to tell you any more, because I can see that this discussion is not leading to anything. It is obvious, gentlemen, that the most important thing for you is to keep your business out of sight in a hurry, to move on, to say that millions of dinars are not much, that 250 thousand dinars are not much, but make sure that the citizens of Serbia are watching this and make sure that in the next election, thanks to this behavior, you will pass as you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5565	Replica, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5566	Mr. Nemanja, you're a young and smart man. Because you're a young and smart man, I completely understand your commitment to a social demagogue we've heard right now. You know, for the DSS MPs, since you mentioned us, a million dinars is a huge sum. Last year's income from a DSS MP kudikamo was below a million dinars, several times lower. Don't put it in the mouth of someone who hasn't said it or anything like that in this room. Otherwise, for the people, for the citizens of our country, you know that a million dinars is a huge sum and let us save some money. Don't get your cheap political points to spread a social demagogue story.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5567	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5568	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Mr. Matić, I am a young man. I don't know what you have against young people. I may also be surprised by my youth by what you just said. Sir, you sat two metres from me when I spoke and said that the fines were 100 grand to a million dinars. How can you not be ashamed? Look me in the eye and say, "I didn't say." Here, I'm gonna get out of this room and I'm not gonna answer my phone for another week. You said that, you looked me in the eye from two feet away. They heard it from their colleagues back there. How can you not be ashamed? Why did you have to go to the pay phone and say it wasn't true? What do you need, Mr. Matrix? Do you think anyone will appreciate you for that? Do you think you've done your political party any favors with such a performance? I say yes, you said, you stood two feet away from me and you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5569	Please, there's no replica. I'm counting on it to be a lapus. It's about article 97 that you're misread. It wasn't an insult. All right, it's article 100. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic. Under Article 96(4), the President of the Assembly is required to give an explanation whenever a breach of the Rules of Procedure is called. So, yes, twice in the previous period, in these 120 days, I've allowed a speaker who started speaking just before six, and in the day in which the Assembly did not vote, as it did today, to work after, twice let it end. You are well aware that this was the first time the president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, and the second time he was a minister. I'm sorry, I mean, and I'll always think that the speaker who starts speaking is not properly interrupted at exactly 6:00 p.m., but I'll let him finish at 18.02 or 18.05. I apologize if I hurt anyone. Mr. Nedeljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5570	This bill, as other SRS lawmakers have said, is better than the legislation that regulated the area of social security contributions. The motive for why we are reporting for discussion, although we think that this law is basically better, lies most in the explanation, in the material that we have received, and in part in the explanation that Minister Dinkic gave at the beginning of the debate on this agenda point. The finance minister has counted the positive sides of this bill. It is said that it introduces simplification into this area, that thanks to this law there will be fiscal discharge of some taxpayers and he mentioned so-called. Work-extensive branches, which we agree on. Single contribution rates are introduced, with an unfounded slander of the SRS in some way that it participated in the adoption of earlier legal solutions. He said that only 11 countries in Europe have a smaller overall social security contribution rate than our country according to new solutions. An incentive is also being introduced to employ older people from over 45 and 50 years of life and the calculation of contributions will no longer be calculated unless profits are paid. That's what's positive. However, careful reading of the material can be seen as an incorrect claim that fiscal discharge will take place after the law is introduced. In fact, the fact is that the contribution rate for the PIO Fund is 22%, for health insurance 12.3% and for the unemployed 1.5%, which is 35.8% in total, and that is 2.2 percentage points more than the rates so far. In addition, there is a significant increase in the basis of contribution to all kinds of work. The Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. Also, for workers who are referring to work abroad, the basis will make the profits they make abroad, and the solution so far is that they have paid the contributions on the earnings they would make to work in our country. Therefore, it is said, and this is the final chapter, that the increased revenues of the PIO Fund will be 3.2 billion dinars, for the Health Insurance Fund will be 3.4 billion dinars, and the increased revenues of the Employment Agency will be around 900 million dinars. So it's completely illogical, or it's a real mystery to me -- where does the claim that fiscal discharge of employees or employers will take place if the revenues of these funds increase so much? In order to support this, the material gave us an explanation, or evidence, in support of the fact that from July 1st, the law that we abolished the tax on a 3.5% profit fund. That, in my opinion, is somewhat "grandmother and frog" math, because the income tax and social security contributions have nothing to do with each other. If that is the case, then Minister Dinkic would have to withdraw all those Slavics about abolishing the tax on a fund-raiser. So if he then boasted of fiscal discharge and announced economic expansion based on the tax reduction, we passed a law on increasing excise duties on many products, and now we are increasing the social security contribution rates. I knew, when we abolished that income tax, that we would have to introduce some new fiscal or other burdens on the other side, given the large deficits in the funds. We know the deficit at the PIO Fund is huge. Some ministers come out with estimates that close to 50% of pension payments are being paid out of the budget, so it is fully deplaced to claim that this is the way to disbursement in any way by the economy, i.e. employers. There are colleagues who are still very happy to compare the results of this government or the previous government with the state of the country in 1993. I think it is high time that both the representatives of the authorities and the MPs of the ruling groups interrupted the evidence of their good work in 1993, for the simple reason that it was indeed an excellent period and that is not the year to be compared to. If any government compares to 1993, with a year of hyperinflation, each government after 1993, and especially every government before that year was extremely successful. Under the criteria, the most successful government in Serbia's history is the government made up of the SPS -- the New Democracy, headed by Mirko Marjanovic. Because in the government's term, there was this famous reform, when the nominal average salary of three marks jumped to over 100 marks and then the government would really deserve the most compliments. So I hope no more government compares to 1993. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5571	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search - whether they want the word of the president or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although most important, I would still return to the Health Insurance Fund. We will have a 0.4% increase in the health insurance rate, from 11.9% to 12.3%, and that will be three billion in cash, which is literally a drop in the sea in the need of health care and health insurance. Comparative data, e.g. in the 90th year, they speak clearly in support of the fact that the Health Insurance Fund had more significant resources needed for material costs, medicines, prescription medicines, and that in total revenues the participation of healthcare workers’ salaries was 50%. This is extremely significant, because 50% could and could have been allocated for all other costs that are very important for health care. Today, in this area, we have interest in wages with 70%. A very small percentage remains for the most important needs, which cover the treatment of patients, medicines, orthopaedic aids, etc. Today, the situation in health insurance, despite donations and the increase in the rate of contribution, is very difficult. The delay in sick leave is about two months. Drug refunds are six months late. The last payments were due last December. So, for all of these purposes, there is a percentage of significantly smaller resources. When we talk about orthopedic devices and aids, in our time, in the 1990s, that percentage was 2%, or 2.1%. And those funds were very low, and the percentage was very low. Today, about 1% is set aside for orthopaedics or aids. We know that the people who need these aids are the most difficult cases, with the most difficult social and social situation. If the first four months of payment for 2004, we see that the Health Insurance Fund is very slow to charge. When it comes to farmers' contributions, we have about 185 million from January to April of the month or about 15% of the Fund's contributions from that part. When we talk about the transfer of funds, it's about 4.7 billion or 25.5%. The budget transfer is 342 million or 11%, and the total revenues in this period range at around 22 billion or 27%. It's certainly a significant income-related bribery for this very important area. We are making all the combinations because we want to point out that this increase in the rate of contributions will not improve the situation in the field of health insurance and protection, and the best part of this is that the number of preparations on the positive list is reduced by 100 medicines and preparations. Of course, someone will say, well, and at that time it was hard to pay, that the refund was late, but it's always better that there's some right, even if it happens after six months or more, than when there's no right at all. We also have a new solution when it comes to payment control and contribution calculations related to the tax administration. Tax administration is an organ that controls payments. This solution is not good, although it is most likely related to other system laws. In our time, at the end of the '90s, we had control of the Department of Health Security itself. That control was very successful. She hired a hundred workers. Viewed by the branches, it was three to four workers, but the retailes of each company and organisation were controlled and payments were regular. Of course, all companies that had no money were compensated, and these are companies from the textile industry, construction, etc. But it's a good solution that's no longer in force, probably because all of this doesn't fit into some other system laws that have been passed. The most drastic increase in social security is related to the National Service. Here we have an increase in the insurance of unemployed persons from 1.1 to 1.5. That's about 40%. However, despite the great announcements and the huge reductions made by the adoption of the Labour Law and the Employment Law, we may have the most difficult situation in this area. Programs don't come true. Everything that was done by 2000 with significantly lower contributions to this area, with lower budget donations, has produced much better results. At the time, we had self-employment programs, the employment of disabled people. They've been gone since 2000. We had a trainee's job, with their salaries and salaries being paid and contributions for a year with high-priced supplies. Every firm that was ready to take a trainee into a permanent working relationship had the right to use for another year, and now it's gone. We've had the financing of agricultural cooperatives to develop cooperative relations. We had class teacher training to get the teacher's calling for the third and fourth year, which was a good and positive solution for all cities and municipalities where we had teaching schools. It's gone. Most importantly, for a large number of workers who had lost their jobs, who had over 30 years of employment, at the time of the SPS, all these workers had the right to cash compensation to find adequate jobs or to retire. All these rights are completely reduced by these laws. Today, the rights in this area move for up to 12 months, and only in exceptional cases up to two years. These rates of contributions that are increasing in the areas of pension and health insurance will not do much to improve the situation. It's just a slight shift. It's about small funds. If the Health Insurance Fund planned 81 billion, three billion will literally mean nothing as progress. The whole solution is new employment, new investments, and there's nothing. I would like to propose to representatives of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups -- I don't think it makes sense that their MPs are talking about these laws. I've been an MP for four years, I know what it was like before, and if I deeply disagree with Chad Jovanovic, on many issues or on all matters, we know how it went before -- says the minister, speaks to the president or head of the parliamentary group and point. We may be here all night arguing. If this law is good, if the other laws are good, it's enough what the proposing says, the heads of parliament groups, and otherwise this is one depletion that doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5573	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5574	I must remind the respected presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, that despite the fact that this bill, which has been offered to us, is very similar to that of the previous government, there is a significant difference in it, and it shows itself in the fact that this proposal has offered us higher levels of contribution rates. The pre-election campaign promised citizens a reduction in the tax burden on profits. On the basis of such promises, elections and MPs who entered the congregation were received. However, in this proposal, the amount of the contribution rate in the collection is a burden on employees' earnings, i.e. towards increasing labour costs. Let me remind you that in law you amounted to 35.8% compared to the previous 33.6%. It's a 2.2% higher load than it was in the previous law. This clearly shows that the pre-election promises made to citizens have been failed. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group intervened with several amendments to the bill. We hope that there will be a hearing that these amendments will be adopted in order for the bill to be corrected. MPs of the DS Group will decide later whether to vote in favour of the law, and so far we are not satisfied with these solutions. We think you'll think about the proposed amendments, which will significantly change the mistakes made in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5575	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Meho Omerovic and Rajko Baralic. The Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5576	I don't want to talk about the amendment, but I want one sentence. I didn't want to go out to the office and answer to my colleague Ruzdic. I suggest you check the math before it forms the position of its parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5577	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Radojla Bukvić and Radovan Teodorovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Radojla Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5578	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, it is finally time for this state, this government and all the other authorities that come after us to treat the peasants, as well as all the other citizens, not just as a voting machine. Farmers, on the one hand, cannot or very little can influence the buying-in prices of wheat, corn, raspberries and other products that they produce, and can also not affect the prices of fertilisers, seed goods, plant protection products and all other products used in their own production. Now these laws impose compulsory pension and social security, and their pensions are miserable and, besides, they're about two years late. Before each election, they are divided one, two pensions, and then the old one is about two years late. For these reasons, Mr. Teodorovic and I, in front of the Serbian parliamentary group, have proposed an amendment for pensioners and social security to pay on the principle of volunteering. In addition to low pensions and their delays, many nursing households are unable to pay for these contributions. On the other hand, there are wealthy households that may pay even higher rates, thus providing themselves with more decent pensions. For these reasons, we have proposed a principle of volunteering. And besides, in the course of every election campaign that we've all participated in, and even before these parliamentary elections, in my constituency in Požega, I've heard just a request that pension and social security be on the principle of volunteering.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5579	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Radovan Teodorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5580	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Mr. Bukvic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(1) to delete point 8. Since agricultural pensions are extremely low, and you know that they are about two years late, then it should be possible for farmers to choose whether to coordinate pension and disability insurance and at what rate. We are in order to add a new Article 7a after Article 7, which reads: "Employees, or farmers, are provided on the principle of volunteering, and the insurance rate is chosen in accordance with the power of their household". If you remember correctly, gentlemen, in 2002 we had a huge peasant rebellion. I think it was March 2002. Half of Serbia has risen: 90% of peasants are behind the principle of volunteering. If you remember this well, in 2000, DOS promised in their 13-point campaign that pension and disability insurance would be on a voluntary basis, and a large number of votes were just that. The Serbian Renewal Movement had no chance because it did not enter parliament then. The Serbian Renewal Movement programme says that pension and disability insurance for farmers is on a voluntary basis. A large number of peasants will be for it, and I call on them to watch their MPs represent them in the day to vote, and which groups will vote in favour of this amendment and this proposal by colleagues Bukovic and mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5581	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5582	Ladies and gentlemen, as a farmer, I am obliged to say something about this law and this amendment. Pension insurance is needed for farmers, but the instrument that collects and the basis by which the harvests are not suitable for farmers throughout Serbia, because you need to understand the fact that Serbia has the highest households of one to three hectares. The price of wheat, corn, soybeans, sugar tails, cattle hasn't changed in years. All the repromaterials are slowly going up and I'm now asking the question, based on 40% of the lowest personal income, if it's 11,000 in the last year, it's about 48,000 in the name of pension insurance contributions. The young went into town, the other old hosts who only sow the simplest cultures, a slightly bigger income with a few ectars they have. It doesn't need to be lifted and it doesn't have to be voluntary, only the collection instruments need to be different, and the DSS has stood up for it, and I'm voting for this bill, it's better than the previous one, but I hope this changes quickly and the billing instrument does differently. Approximately like this, farmers hand over milk, wheat, corn, soy, all products. The processing industry, transporters, merchants, all at that price from the source are calculating for the salaries of their workers and for pension insurance. The moment the host's goods go into storage and to be economical, the price should be added to the cost of the farmer's pension and health insurance. I'll ask you a question, but answer honestly, in inflation when there were low wages, if you were getting a gross salary on your hands, would either of you be paying pension and health care? I'm sure he wouldn't. Farmers are almost still in that inflation today and in that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5583	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The Word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot accept this amendment for the next reason. This is a mandatory social security law. We intend to make a law on voluntary retirement insurance, where anyone who wants to pay contributions at a voluntary rate and, of course, enjoy retirement. However, we have the current situation, where current pensions are paid out of current contributions. Do you know why? Not this year, but the last three, the last ten years, late farmers' pensions? For the simple reason not to pay farmers' pension contributions, because you can't pay pensions to farmers who are now old and who are retired if young farmers pay messyly. And then, it's nice to say, you should take care of agriculture. We have to take care and we take care, because we've tripled the agrarian budget, but when we talk about pensions, until a voluntary pension system is established, it's clear from the current contributions that current pensions are going on. Since they don't pay enough, not all farmers, for various reasons, may be objective, but they don't pay their contributions, there's not enough money for farm pensions, and that's why they've been ten years late. Whether the solution is in a voluntary system, I agree, but we cannot leave those who are now old and who are farmers. So there must be, while there is a mandatory insurance system and a mandatory contribution rate for farmers' pensioners. And of course, when a voluntary pension insurance system is established, people themselves will decide and – I am opposed to the fact that anywhere, even in Parliament, citizens are divided into farmers, citizens of those living in suburban settlements, because they are all citizens of Serbia and must be the same system for everyone – everyone who pays a contribution, have the right to receive a pension. If there's no money in contributions, you can't expect magic, and there's money coming to pay off pensions, and that's why we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5585	The word is made by MP Radovan Teodorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5586	I have one truth to tell, with all the praise for Mr Dinkic, what he did for the peasants about the loan and everything, I have to say one fact from the field. The peasants, what they owe for PIO, will never pay. No one can force them, you can arrest them all, so it was a riot because of the tobacco, and it'll be again if it's necessary. There's no way you're gonna charge the peasants for that. So those who pay, they will pay, because they have an interest in paying. If they started paying in 1986, to stop now and lose everything they paid for, they would pay. And those who did not pay, they have no money, so they will not pay, and you can arrest them all. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5587	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5588	Just one thing to explain, gentlemen, God forbid any of us farmers here want to share Serbia with farmers and non-earthers. We are pride and a part of this people. All the winds since the war in 1945 and this way have passed over our backs. We've been keeping social peace for years, and now that we're looking for a few crumbs of convenience, we're not looking for a way to go around world destinations on vacations, make luxury villas and throw ourselves away. We ask that we increase economic power, that the more we invest in agriculture, because we have the conditions to enter Europe with it, perhaps the only branch, and not to be European servants, but to be respected and appreciated by Europe for this production. That's what we're looking for and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5589	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet, on behalf of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS Group in principle debated this law almost highlighted the need for farmers to be left out of mandatory social security. We think and absolutely support this amendment. We think that colleagues who spoke about the amendment are really right and nothing farmers have had since the demagogue of Minister Dinkic's story that the agrarian budget has been increased three times. Who noticed and where do you see it? If he hadn't accidentally paid for more expensive raspberries three times more expensive, he wouldn't have accidentally paid for the wheat three times as expensive, because he didn't pay for any of it as much as he did last year, let alone three times as expensive. Therefore, this government, at least this assembly, and today I have said that it is obvious that the government does not care about the citizens of Serbia, but this National Assembly is people who are in this parliament because someone there chose them and because citizens have brought us to this Parliament, and we are here to represent the citizens of Serbia. I am absolutely certain that all MPs support this amendment, no matter which party they belong to, because there are a large number of peasants in all parties, a large number of farmers, and each of us is obliged to protect their interests. Exactly what we were saying in the principle debate, we are stressing now and we support this amendment. Since the minister has come forward and said that he has no intention of helping the peasants, that he has predicted that peasants must pay contributions, I call on the National Assembly to be more serious in the voting day than the minister today and that the National Assembly accepts this amendment. The minister's story earlier for this speaker that farmers now have to pay mandatory insurance, and he will one day propose optional insurance. Wait, then leave them out of this mandatory one, so when you propose the other one, then write that there are farmers. What it means to you, one day, what it is, don't drop a donkey to the green grass. We must now, at this moment, help the farmers. To us, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is the only thing left in Serbia, which is how it lives, which still works. You've closed everything else. You've destroyed everything else. I was saying today -- not that farmers can't pay for these contributions, they won't be able to soon thanks to this government's policy, they won't be able to buy food, they won't be able to eat, except for what they're producing themselves. I once again appeal to all the MPs, although it seems to me that here, at this point, there is not enough for us to even discuss the amendment at all, but you who are here, be aware enough, be aware that most of the population in Serbia are peasants, that we are all here in this room thanks to the voices of our peasants, someone less, someone more. So don't just talk to them in a pre-election campaign, not just in a pre-election campaign to talk, vote for us, vote for the minister's party, and you'll get three times the budget. None of those three times the increased budget peasants have. Let's do something to really let our peasants know that we, who have been sent to this National Assembly, take care of them, their lives, their families. We can't raise their pensions to those who've already paid their contributions. There's nothing we can do to reduce that two-year or two-and-a-half retirement period. Let's not make them pay where they have to pay, and what the state has to give them, it can't, the minister didn't predict in the law. All SRS MPs will vote in favour of this amendment, so that farmers are left out of mandatory contributions to social and pension insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5591	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before this House, before you MPs, the ministers came back a few months ago, explained the laws they propose in the National Assembly, convinced us the reasons why certain laws should be adopted, tried to make what the National Assembly proposes changes in the law, with less or more power to change it and to make the laws acceptable. A number of ministers from the current government treated this house very correctly, to you, or to us MPs, according to the dignity of the National Assembly and sat all the time and listened to what the MPs had to object to the bill. None of them, or most of them, personally understood that the MPs were criticizing the law. Today we had the opportunity, or yesterday and today, to use Minister Dinkic to report for the speech at 18.02 hours and to insult the largest SRS parliamentary group. Today we had a chance to deign us and come here for five minutes and that, as soon as the criticisms started on the law, he picked himself up and left, he was gone for four or five hours, and now he's here, counting on having the final word again. If he had been there, he would probably have heard the statement in principle, and in principle in this law I had just apostropheed item 8) of Article 7 of the mandatory pension and disability insurance law and point 8 of Article 8 relating to the mandatory health insurance system, believing that agriculture, which we all swear, of which we all live, that the village from where we are, more or less, rooted or personally, that villages that have been reduced to nursing households and that they produce the above-average efforts so much food that they can feed this Serbia, cannot endure another harak that the minister here delivers on their necks. Not necessarily social security for pensioners, for the simple reason that many can't pay. You heard Mr. MPs, I don't know which political organization he belongs to, but you heard him say you could arrest half of them, and that belongs to a slightly stronger economic end, half of the farmers, you have nothing to charge them from. Turn to southern Serbia a little bit, and see that 500 and some villages on the border with Bulgaria are completely empty, that only old people live in 400 and some villages in the same region, and several old people in the whole village. That's how you think we're strengthening agriculture, that's how you think our markets and the pantry are gonna be full tomorrow. Mr. Minister, there has been no mandatory social security for farmers so far, and don't load a hack to those who can't really pay. If you put all the farmers in jail, there won't be room for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5593	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was obvious throughout last year, and especially in the campaign for parliamentary elections, in fact, since the formation of that so-called so-called. G17 expert groups, not plus but indeed a minus, that people who are the leaders of the organisation that prefers to be political, do not have touch points with agriculture as a problem in our country back decades and during the period of communism, especially during the period when farmers are, due to inappropriate sanctions so-called. international communities, then one of the bad policies of those who ruled in the years when the SRS was the most hard-core opposition, had no sense and hearing of what we were appealing and referring to these appeals from this assembly pay phone. For those of you who, for the first time and in the first session in this high assembly house, are one piece of information - the SRS that has since started participating in Serbia's parliamentary life, since the 1990s, has been persistent in this and every Serbian Radical MP, first it was only our President, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and then with a large number, it is now the number of 82 Serbian Radicals MPs, we have done everything we can to influence the position of agricultural producers in our country to improve. The basic thing to do is to make a rational and reasonable budget. Minister Dinkic would have to know that a quarter of the country's active population, that's the exact data, a quarter of our population, is engaged in agriculture. We have huge problems in agriculture, as the primary and strategic branch of our country, which we should have, and that will only be done by responsible radical authorities, to make more account in the sense that some branches of agriculture are completely neglected. Today, we have a situation that agricultural producers have been destroyed by the attention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the night between June 26th and 27th, the top quality cherries, for which those in the west are called, are not planning to export anything, because otherwise such an external trade deficit is, and Dinkic himself boasts that he will remain at 4.5 billion euros, and thus the same fate awaits farmers who are being held by the head and do not know what to do with such a low ransom price of wheat. How is it possible, then, that the minister says that agricultural producers can't, which we Serbian radicals have been pushing for 14 years, to release mandatory contributions to pension and social security? How can he say that in a year that, perhaps from all backgrounds, since the 1990s, is the worst for agriculture? That fluctuating course of the euro and how it's changed these days and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all know very well. It is a simple and simple calculation that every child living in the country will know, and that should be known by a long-standing magistrate, now Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. So, if at a ransom price of 7 dinars per kilogram of wheat, then the price of bread would have to be much lower, and you laughed at it, mocked and mocked the fact that the people really don't have the bread to eat, that they're hungry, barefoot and thirsty. It's really like that. Then how can you tell the farmers that you don't have any more to pay them for the ransom? If these farmers you pay for, and you won't pay for the wheat in time, they have to buy Euros, and the latent inflation is certainly much bigger than the one you faked – 8 percent on the annual level, if they have to buy soon, unfortunately, that will follow, the euro for 80 dinars, how much they have left per kilogram of wheat; a simple bill – just five dinars. They have no conditions for basic reproduction. What you're going to do with what you're really going to do today in Serbia, the neglected agricultural branches, such as fruit growing. We are, thank God, a country that has many opportunities, and as far as people are concerned, the natural potentials and values of people, above all, and the varieties that we have invented and that we can boast about anywhere in the world, to achieve much more significant income in this area. No, we have in Serbia today, due to the import lobby, which also Mladjan Dinkic supports, fructose radioactive juices. (President: I ask Parliamentarian Natasu Jovanovic to bring an end. ) Today we have imported 10 million gallons of mineral water in Serbia, we in Serbia today have a situation to rot apples, to rot cherries, that raspberries are paid below any price. Not only will hips and disruptors rise, but Mladjan Dinkic, as finance minister, will probably no longer remember that in such a way he is playing with the fate of agricultural producers, although the budget in the nominal amount for farmers is increased three times, but that does not mean anything, because in the structure of those agricultural producers and branches that need to be helped, it is minimally, below each minimum and insufficient to maintain, let alone for the development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5595	The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5596	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. That's not the first time you've done it. You showed up beautifully tanned yesterday in this congregation, but you must leave your hysteria somewhere else. You cannot insult not only the MPs of G17 plus, but all MPs of the congregation's majority, one such hysterical performance. That's not allowed anymore. You're not ashamed to say "Mr. Dinkic's long-time magistrate." Go out and say it – it's my school and it's my school, so I'm the one who's been doing it for a long time. What does that look like? I see that you understand each other, except that you understood each other in education, you understand yourself in the economy, you understand this, in what you're talking about the course of the euro, and you understand that. Do the math, explain here the mathematical model, what the motion is, and what's going on. How is it possible for you to talk about the 1990s? That gray cloud, which we don't like to remember, even though we were just forced to remind ourselves, you were in it, and it was thick. I think it's necessary, if we're dealing with agriculture and if we truly want to point out how essential things are, you can't ignore the fact that this government has singled out three times the agrarian budget. You can't not say the fact that this government has entered into the realisation of short- and long-term agricultural loans. So it's started, this year's start and all the following years, this is one visible shift in agriculture, because people will be able to slowly start rebuilding their mechanism for this year, to help set up and other things they need. I hear stories all the time about how it's wrong that the agrarian budget has been increased three times. I hope this start this year will three times contribute to the next five times, next year seven times, etc. I guess that's the interest of everyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5597	I thank the MP Albianic. The replica was reported by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5598	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fellow Albianic, the respected public of Serbia, if you already intend to criticize anyone and look back at my appearance, thank you for the compliment, and for what I said about the assembly pay phone, you should next, fellow Albianic, call upon good behavior and come to the Assembly with a decent education and with a normal rhetoric. Speaking to your party colleague, and unfortunately Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, in my passing towards the assembly speaker, you asked me, "What's the matter, Natasha?" I'm telling you what happened - G17 plus doesn't exist as a political party. You're a criminal organization, whether you like it or not. (President: Please use polite words. In any tone, perfectly normal and reasoned, I'll repeat that ten thousand times. Since you have failed in the elections, and this has been shown by the public of Serbia and voters in the elections, I have no intention, nor any Serbian radical, of making fun of you anymore. The problems of agriculture, and what I know about agriculture, what I know about the difficult situation in the country, these are the problems that plague citizens. And you not only won't be able to get the right to rephrase this to me, but you'd better, Mr. Albian, sit down, cover your ears, your head, or get out of this assembly room and never come back to it. Your people won't. The fact that you or two are going to say something that has nothing to do with reality, unlike me who, indeed, as a responsible person and as an MP in a third meeting, I am dealing with agriculture problems, education problems, health problems, cultural problems and everything that bothers the citizens of Serbia, the people, thank God and people will, gave me confidence that I am doing it on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and on behalf of myself. You take some new ways, go back to what you've done, if you've done anything at all, and us serious people and serious politicians, and responsible MPs, let and let us deal with matters that we should deal with competently, professionally and responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5599	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5600	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am re-advertising article 100. Rules of Procedure. We see again a set of words that MPs G17 plus do not pronounce for the assembly speaker. We have seen more of some of the other young MPs talking to each other. It's not like I have to tell you that at school, those kids are sitting in that first bench, and I'm not gonna say what that bench is called. Some do not deserve to be told to improve their behaviour, they are Serbian citizens and should see it. As for the G17 plus-and-election rating, as far as I've seen this period since the presidential election, something seems to me that you're a lot more nervous after these results. Anyone who loses has the right to be angry. The only thing you don't understand is that it's within that number of votes, all of which are voices. The time of radicals is passing, and the time of some modern politicians, who strive in Europe, is yet to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5601	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5602	Here, when it comes to who's sitting in which bench, the one you're sitting in is the donkey bench. It's a bench for restless students and for MPs and people who don't want to take their problems seriously. Mr Albianić, if you were seriously, in detail and in a manner suitable to the MPs, do this work as I do and the MPs of the SRS, you would be seriously prepared for the discussions, going out according to the laws, although you support them, of course, it is better for you to praise them, talking about amendments of MPs, and positions and opposition, which are submitted to the law, and not that at a time when you think you might be interested in a place or a narrow circle of friends and relatives from where you come from, you say things that have nothing to do with the truth. I'm telling you again - G17 plus represents nothing on Serbia's political scene. Mladjan Dinkic is just one bad choice between Vojislav Kostunica and the government, which is who it is. The citizens showed it, and they'll only show up in the next election. In September, local elections, however, further parliamentary elections, but your destiny is so and there is no help. About the fate of agricultural producers and how their status and position to improve, we can't solve anything today and this day. Maybe not during this summer, not during this fall, because the problems are big, the problems are long-term and it takes much more serious access to serious people. We'll do it, we'll do it the most competitive way. I am, regardless of what any of the MPs of the SRS does, what they do, what their profession is, proud of where I come from and what my background is, and of course, the origin of all of us is mostly from the village. I know that in my village and in the entire forest, peasants live badly, that they are not satisfied and have not received any short-term or long-term credit, but every day I face their problems through the receptions in the party's office, through meetings in the Assembly, market meetings or wherever I see them, because I know that these problems are very serious. As a member of this people, it hurts me because I repeat, a quarter of the active population is engaged in agriculture, as my relatives, relatives of other MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups, and they live very badly today. So I say once again, at the end of the line, the SRS parliamentary group will support this amendment, which requires insurance, i.e. that the payment of taxes and contributions by farmers be voluntary, as they decide, that is, what their financial opportunities are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5603	Thank you. Let's get back to the amendment. The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5604	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me remind you -- this amendment has been tabled by MPs from the SPO-New Serbia Group. Turns out it was filed by radicals. We don't mind if you support it, of course, but let me ask you, why is agriculture in this state? Who could have changed the situation in agriculture? Were you not in a position to do so at the age of power? Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you submit a amendment like this? We wish that now that we're on the chance, peasants don't pay contributions to pension-inhabitation and social security. As long as I'm here, let me say what we think is the contribution of the MPs. We, although in the ruling coalition, asked for the Law on Value Added Tax, to change some things, just to improve the situation in agriculture. We were very pleased with the proposals of the previous laws and we will support them all, but we asked that the mandatory rate of 18% not apply to the machinery in agriculture, but to 8%. But then we realize that the Ministry tried at that point everything possible to get one percent reduction in prices and that maybe it's not the time to go so low. We accepted the minister's argument and were very pleased with the adoption of some of our amendments. So this is an amendment that is very important. We ask that you all vote for him, but we ask you not to politicise on this subject. It doesn't make sense, because this is a good law. And the previous laws were good and let's not create an ugly atmosphere at this time. As far as we're concerned, we can by morning, we can by tomorrow night, it's not the time for politics. This is an opportunity to improve the state of society by good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5605	I thank Parliamentarian Veroljub Stevanovic. Minister Dinkic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5606	One is less bile or more bile debates and an attempt to declare good news to one or the target group. But there's something that's the law. I just want to say what consequences would come from the adoption of this amendment, and then I leave it on the conscience of the MPs to vote. The current Pension Insurance Act allows farmers not to make contributions within five years, but they are at rest during that period. This means, if it is adopted that contributions can be paid voluntarily, there is no guarantee of a state that pensions can be paid. Whoever the minister is, it doesn't matter if I'm the minister, someone else will come tomorrow, but if you don't have pension contributions, you have no place to pay your pensions. This means the rest of the law, the rest of the payment with the mandatory insurance system. It's a fact independent of this government, of any political party, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5607	Thank you, Minister. For the replica of the previous discussion of Veroljub Stevanovic, the word is Natasa Jovanovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was really surprised, perhaps even pleasantly surprised -- well, at some point, a man realizes what this assembly is and what this place is, since my colleague Stevanovic didn't name me, he was talking about the SRS, because you already know what his manner is when I'm concerned. When it comes to the SRS and this volunteer, which we also advocate with agricultural producers, we not only submitted amendments to the meeting when the finance minister was Bozidar Djelic, but also lasted several hours and more days. Because only later has the Rules of Procedure been amended, so it is businessly arranged to conduct a total of five hours in principle. And then we appealed to this DOS government to do it. We ourselves, in the situation where we, when you were talking about, were in power, did not have the opportunity to do so because we were a minority partner in that coalition and indeed, as far as we were concerned, at that moment, which was before the war year, unfortunately, the years of the great suffering of our people, in total for less than two years, we were unable to deal with this issue. But again, I must tell Mladjan Dinkic, although he is not here, that it is not true that the state will not be able to fulfil its obligations further if this amendment, submitted by the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, is accepted. There's so much space and so much opportunity in the structure of this budget, that it's tampering and cubed with deficits, and this time it's expressed through 45 billion dinars, that many other things are being eliminated, especially to drastically reduce public spending in ministries where it's completely unnecessary, and to move all of this to agriculture. If you followed closely, this year, and colleagues who were in the previous assembly of MPs in this assembly, when the SRS managed to bring down Zoran Zivkovic's government, we paid our utmost attention to the projection of the budget and the work for the agrarian. Whenever we've changed the overall budget structure for one year, and that's probably the most important thing for all the citizens and users of the budget, everything we'd take away from someone, let's say -- machines and equipment for the President of the Republic, you still have it in your budget today. Why would Tadic need 200 million dinars for machines and equipment, what kind of machines and equipment he needs. We have rerouted such and similar items to the agrarian item, clearly saying that it is small and that farmers need more. The nominal amount is nothing when you have in mind the costs of agricultural producers and what is the buying-in price of cereals, what was the buying-in price of raspberries and how already late the pensions of agricultural producers are. Let, then, that out of that huge number, for those people who live in the country who have to decide, God will give them that and so it will be, more and more to stay in the country, to decide whether or not they will pay or not, and not to have the state, or the rule of law imposes on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5609	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5610	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have already heard from the MPs of the SRS, this amendment should be accepted because we should, however, leave the farmers with the principle of volunteering in whether they will be retired or not. It's their choice. We are all aware of the situation of agriculture and villages in general, which gradually die away. One reason to try to keep the young in the country, to deal with that agriculture, is that they will have to take care of their parents. As it is introduced, to make it mandatory, and many parties have proposed in the election campaign, and do not think that people are easily forgetting pre-election promises, and that the penalty does not arrive at the first elections, and even these parties that are now governmental have advocated that agricultural pension insurance be voluntary. Now that you're in power, this government takes care of itself and only the budget -- how to get the money. She doesn't care how she lives, in this case, that agrarian of ours, that farm of ours. That – how much you care about agriculture, and that you could accept this amendment. And he doesn't tell the truth, Mr Dinkic, where he pays his pension money to farmers. Because Mr Dinkic has introduced a tax that has so far not existed on seed goods, artificial fertilisers, food products, breeding cattle, agricultural machinery, agricultural products from primary agricultural production, which is what you all introduced the tax. And, then, you're talking in a story, that's all. Mr Dinkic, that he will release, that some amount of taxes that peasants will invest, for those 5% to 18% of what difference there is in this matter - that the peasant would achieve this must register as an entrepreneur. Now that's the story of volunteering. He has the privilege of registering as an entrepreneur or being an ordinary farmer. Why didn't you state it in law? Whoever wants to be an entrepreneur, pay his taxes. Whoever won't, let him choose or not. Like this, you said - they all have to, and you have money. You have money, new budget revenues from seed wheat, artificial fertilizer, food products, agricultural machinery and equipment. That's your new budget. For once, let this speaker minister come out and tell the truth, and not just here to talk – no money, no money, no money. Well, there's no money, because he spends too much. Who knows what and for what purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5611	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Radojla Bukvic and Radovan Teodorovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. Is anyone answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Milan Jankovic. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Miloje Savic. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here's a word from Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5612	Article 12. The bill says: "When an insurance company makes revenues on a number of different basiss (work relationship, independent activities, contracts and others), contributions are accounted for and paid on all these grounds, up to the maximum annual basis of the contribution, in accordance with this law. "I suggested adding the words "for mandatory pension and disability insurance" after the word "indebted" was added. I believe it is not justified to introduce a payment obligation for health insurance contributions and in the event of unemployment on the basis of all forms of work, since, on the basis of a more paid contribution, no rights can be exercised. This amendment shall also apply to Article 2(2). I have also suggested that these words be introduced "for compulsory pension and disability insurance", because I think it is justified that the obligation to collect contributions on all grounds of work is determined only for compulsory pension and disability insurance, because it enables maximum pensions to be made under this insurance obligation. This amendment should be adopted and it would not disturb the meaning of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5613	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that if someone performs three acts, and one person thinks that they should pay only on one basis and I don't see why one person would have to pay the same thing three times. I'm a personal businessman who had a case like that. In some previous period, obligations and contributions were paid on one basis and whenever you opened another activity you had no obligation to pay for it. Of course, later the law was changed, and I see no reason why one person who performs more activity would pay compulsory insurance, pension and social security by any means of action. I don't think that's right and you should pay for it once.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5615	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5616	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment should be supported. We used to have a dilemma about it, and often people asked us why they pay health insurance on more grounds. Never could anyone who represented the congregation’s majority explain to a farmer who works in the factory and has a field: why the income from agriculture must be paid by health insurance, if he is already employed and pays for his health insurance from gross personal income. So health insurance and unemployment insurance should be excluded from these contributions, point 12, which says all contributions are paid. No, there are contributions that a person who exercises the rights of employees in several places do not have to pay. These two contributions are health insurance and unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5617	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5618	Retirement insurance is not to be paid on two grounds. If he has a working relationship, he doesn't pay for the farm, and the property health is to be paid. Usually in the fields of these farmers who are mixed up for rural poverty that has neither pension nor health insurance. Then tomorrow will be a social case. It's a good thing there's money in the fund for their treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5619	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sredoje Mihajlov. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. The Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first this identity of the text is a coincidence. The essence of this amendment is, in fact, an explanation for the amendment to Article 6 and Article 35. I chose to report once for rational reasons, to explain the amendment to Article 16, and also to the next two amendments. Article 16 The proposal for a mandatory social security contribution law provides that the basis for contributions for temporary and occasional persons, as well as employers, is to be paid on that basis. Most often engaged in temporary and occasional jobs are students, young unemployed people through youth and student associations. They should certainly be able to get as long, as long and as large as possible to be engaged in temporary and occasional jobs. But for the purpose of performing temporary and occasional transactions, due to the unpredictability of the length and extent of the duration, compensation cannot be agreed in advance, but only the basis for the calculation per unit of measure. The contract does not mean that it has been achieved, and only the compensation obtained and paid can be monitored and can be the basis for the calculation of the contribution. The contract can be bigger, but it can be less than actually paid. In order not to be misused, it is necessary to specify precisely that the basis for payment of the contribution has been paid. Once again, in order to work more rationally, I miss the position of the promoter on this amendment, because if I knew that the promoter had accepted this amendment, I wouldn't be wasting your time here. If not, then I have a question, how is it that the Ministry, in order to remove the consequences of an inadequate notion of "agreed fee", gives an opinion of the number 140-03-41-4444, under which the "contracted fee" is considered a paid work fee. If that's how we ask it to be put into law, nothing more, and that behind that we don't give special opinions. So, the essence of the amendment is only in one word, that the word "arranged" is replaced by the words "paid fee". As a lot of words can mean a little, one word can mean a lot. I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5621	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5622	I have submitted an amendment to Article 23 and suggested that the words of "a company" be replaced by the words "a society of faces". Afterwards, by checking in with me, I came to the conclusion that the Pension Insurance Act has a notion of a company that I can't change through this law. I expect when the pension insurance law is on the agenda and when I propose a similar amendment that you will support me, and now I will withdraw this amendment, and also to Article 6. I'm sorry, I wasn't there. I'm withdrawing those two amendments because I don't think I can introduce a new concept through a law that's not the main law on that term.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5623	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5624	I didn't know that was already up. I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. The article reads: "The basis of contributions for independent artists, the way in which contributions are determined and paid is agreed by the minister responsible for finance affairs, the minister responsible for labour, employment and social policy and the minister responsible for health affairs." I asked this member to change and to read: "The basis of the contribution for independent artists is the income that they earn by performing artistic or other activities in the field of culture on which taxes are paid under the law governing the income tax of citizens." I do not believe that the establishment of a base of contribution for the category of debtors through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the basis of the contribution for all categories of debtors, must be regulated by law. I think you should really consider adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5625	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the president of the SRS parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very meaningful amendment, on the same level as the position of the SRS that legal matter should not be left to ministers for free decision. The basis of the contribution is legal matter, it is established by law for all categories of population, for all activities. The finance ministry convinces us that it has all income under control, and if it does, then it can establish the basis for revenue from artistic or other activity, as it determines for all other employees or for all others who make revenue, and if it says that several ministers will negotiate for the basis, think on the basis of the contribution, then it is a sign that they still have no way to determine the income of independent artists. I'm opposed to ministers deciding how much they're going to be the basis for contributions for anyone, as well as for independent artists, because it seems to me that there are several tens of thousands of independent artists. I would like ministers in the Serbian government to do something more serious than to determine for each independent artist an individual basis for contribution. If it's simple work and simple, if four ministers are going to determine one percent, why didn't they set it up in the bill? It seems to me, as they wrote this, that artists would be placed in individual or group cases, so for groups, they would separate the percentages for the payment of contributions. We will vote in favour of this amendment, because it improves the law and prevents ministers from dealing with the matter provided for by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5627	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5628	The Ministry of Finance accepts the amendment to Article 25, and since I wasn't in the O.R. when Mrs. Leila laid down the amendment to Article 12, I would like to say that we also accept the amendment to Article 12. So we accept amendments to Article 12 and Article 25.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5629	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Toma Busetic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5630	By accepting the previous amendment by MP Leila Ruzdic, the issue is being resolved in a more adequate way, so I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5631	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. National MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 35th amendment in the same text. The Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Meho Omerovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 75 by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government accepts the amendment. The 76th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government accepts the amendment. The 77th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government accepts the amendment. The 78th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government accepts the amendment. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the 8th item of the agenda, the last one for today. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5632	I would ask you to look at the stenographic notes from the session when MP Ksenija Milivojevic asked us to vote on the extension of the session. She asked us to vote – until the debate on this agenda ended. I'd like to ask you. I'll go out and apologize if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5633	Mr. Nikolic, we checked and we don't mind you looking at the stenogram later. So, the request was and 128 MPs voted, remember, but for the request to vote until the end of the 8th agenda, not this one, but the 8th agenda. I'm sorry, please, we'll be easy, it's not controversial, of course. Thank you very much. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a GAME LAW (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan, Zoran Andjelkovic, Vladimir Jovanovic, Bosko Ristic, Velimir Simonovic, Meso Omerovic and Veroljub Stevanovic on the bill. Amendments submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure until the opening of the search will be sent to you during the session. National MP Zoran Angelkovic, written on July 8, 2004, withdrew Amendment 13 to Article 22 and Amendment 41 to Article 97. It's a bill of law. Also, MP Zoran Angelkovic, written on 15 July 2004, withdrew Amendment 20 to Article 40, Amendment 22 to Article 43, Amendment 25 to Article 47, Amendment 28 to Article 54, Amendment 42 to Article 98, Amendment 44 to Article 101, Amendment 45 to Article 103 and Amendment 46 to Article 104, submitted on 1 July 2004. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 142(4). Rules of Procedure, rejected MP Zoran Angelkovic's amendment to Article 100, so that this amendment cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs: SRS - 1 hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS - 1 hour, three minutes, 36 seconds, DS-Boris Tadic, 44 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds, SP-New Serbia - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes, 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs per five minutes on the basis of Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search (20.20 hours). Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5634	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on gambling. You know for a fact that gambling everywhere in the world brings significant fiscal incomes. Unfortunately, in Serbia, current fiscal revenues under existing gambling laws are very modest, only about 600 million dinars a year, given both the possibilities and the fact that tax revenues based on gambling are mainly financed by disabled and socially endangered categories of population and athletes. We have tabled a bill that should put order in this area, allow adequate revenues to the state and that the state, and those involved in these gambling games, are satisfied. As far as the fundamental elements of the law are concerned, it is, above all, news that this law narrows down the gray zone to create competitive market conditions. Also, the law stimulates those who are involved in organised games of good luck to gather. A significant increase in budget revenues is expected based on the adoption and application of this law, even ten times, and the law envisions adequate control of gambling, as well as the protection of players in terms of the security of payout. Today there are a lot of gambling, where those who play are not protected, there are a lot of frauds, this law strictly sanctions such things and systemically reduces the possibility of fraud to a minimum. As for the kind of gambling, the law predicts four types. First of all, classic gambling, it's a lottery. Then, special gambling, in toys, or casinos, on machines and bookshops; prize competitions in goods and services and the fourth group are games of happiness organised via the Internet and other media. Total expected fiscal income from gambling at an annual level of around 70m to 100m euros, with the biggest revenue expected from organising classic gambling. The law envisions the next distribution of the state-run income -- 60% of the total revenues generated on the basis of gambling fees would be poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, while 40% would be equally allocated to four budget funds: the funding fund for disabled organisations and social protection institutions would be 10% of the income; the fund for financing social and humanitarian activities -- 10%; the funding for sport -- 10%; and local self-government is projected 10%. As far as classic gambling is concerned, it's a basic lottery, but there's also a lottery, bingo, kenzo, etc., this law affirms classic gambling. I have to say that the current social lottery is in a very difficult position and instead of making revenue for the state, they mostly have losses. The law envisions a state monopoly in classical gambling, fortunately by establishing Serbia's state lottery. This is the experience other countries have. The state has a monopoly over the lottery, allowing operators through franchise to contract with Serbia's state lottery and organise gambling. Also, the existing lottery would become part of Serbia's state lottery, not to be shut down, although it is in a very difficult position today, it would already become part of Serbia's state lottery system. I must say that, as for the organisation of lottery, lottery, bingo and other classic gambling in local areas, you also know that many amateur or semi-professional clubs organise it in different places, they will, of course, not lose the right to do so further, with their connection to Serbia's state lottery, they will conclude a contract with Serbia's state lottery, receive an appropriate commission from the organisation of gambling, but is the control of the reason why everything is centralized in Serbia's state lottery. For example, in Slovenia, their national lottery creates traffic beyond the gross traffic of Kopar port, which is the largest port in Slovenia. We have lost to our lottery. We expect traffic through the national lottery in the coming year of at least 100m euros, of which the fixed revenue for the budget would be 30%, the costs of the organisation and the work in this lottery 20%, the 50% fund. As far as special games are concerned, we have three main types, casinos, machines and bookies. As far as casinos are concerned, only 10 casino permits are provided. I have to say that currently there are far fewer than 10 potential casino permits in the country and rigorous conditions are required, both technically and financially, to organise gambling games in toys, or casinos. According to the bill, a million-euro fixed capital is needed, with a deposit of 300,000 euros; then, an additional 500,000 euros is required based on a tender to be organised. That's what it takes for someone to organize gambling in a toy room. A monthly fee of 3% gross payments is foreseen, in case it is games where the player plays against the player and 20% of the net payment, the difference between payment and payment, in games where the player plays against the toy. Also, rigorous technical and technological conditions are foreseen to guarantee the payouts of players' profits and the corresponding traffic records to be provided to the special supervisory directorate. Mandatory video surveillance and player protection are foreseen. These toys should also encourage hospitality and tourism in the environments where they will be organised. We want to have serious toys, or serious casinos, and therefore these conditions that the law provides are very rigorous. As far as automatics are concerned, the law provides for the possession of a minimum hundred machines to go to a gambling event by means of a machine, which means that if someone owns a smaller machine, they can make a franchise deal with someone who has more and be part of that system. Why the hundred machines, why the accumulation? It's easier to control, because only those who meet the condition that they have a minimum hundred machines will be controlled. The underlying capital provided for by the law is the deposit of 300 euros per machine. The law knows three types of compensation. First, it is a deposit to be made, then a licence, or a work permit and a monthly fee to be paid at a certain amount. In the machine, the work permit is projected to be 300 euros per year per machine, and a monthly fee of 50 euros, plus ten per cent for annual traffic of over 6 000 euros per machine. So for each annual traffic exceeding 6,000 euros, 10 per cent of the annual turnover is projected over this amount. Also, the technological conditions provided by the law are rigorous, which guarantees payment to players and adequate traffic records. As far as the bookies are concerned, it's also proposed to build up. So someone who wants to organize gambling games through bookies must own at least 30 payment places, 30 bookies. The capital is 150 000 euros, a deposit of 3 thousand euros per payment place, the work permit is 200 euros per month per place of payment, while a monthly fee of 600 euros plus 10 per cent for annual traffic is offered for over 100 000 euros per place of payment. So if someone makes 110,000 euros, 10 per cent of 110 per cent is added to this monthly fee. As for gambling online, these games will also be organised through Serbia's state lottery, which has a monopoly and has the possibility to conclude a contract with the directors of this kind of game. Finally, there is a big difference in the organisation of competitions, which are increasingly popular, but of which the state has almost no use. The editor is now predicted to be able to organise prize contests four times a year at the most and has to pay 20 per cent of the state's prize fund, so that even of the country's prize contests, the country will have an appropriate inflow. As far as supervision is concerned, the law provides for the establishment of a gambling administration and special control by the tax administration. Also, the law provides for unique rigorous technical and technological conditions. All editors will be properly connected to the administration and appropriate data are required to deliver gambling administrations, and video surveillance is required in certain forms. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by this law, we will also bring this area, which is quite chaotic in Serbia, seriously. I hope that most in the Assembly will support the draft law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5635	Do the representatives of the committees want a word – the Committee for Finance Radojko Obradović and the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was indeed time for gambling to be regulated by law, in fact, to be in line with many technical achievements achieved, achieved or achieved from the time of the adoption of the basic law and some of its small changes to this day. I'm not a gambler. I don't know anything about this stuff. I guess good gamblers are the ones who wrote the law, that they predicted all the better gamblers could do. I'm interested in something else. I wonder if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the Secretariat for Law? If it's like the time of DOS' first rule, it's gone. By reading this law, I am convinced that there is no Legislative Secretariat or at least that there is no able secretary of the Secretariat for Legislatives. As the government has lost its grip on the harsh violation of the Constitution in this bill, so harsh that the government is also acknowledging it in the light of the law. In light of the law, the government of the Republic of Serbia uses the word "monopol". Article 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "Employment and other actions are carried out freely and on equal terms, in accordance with the Constitution and the law." Article 64(3) says: "Every act and any action that creates or promotes a monopoly position is opposed, or otherwise restricts the market". The government of the Republic of Serbia is a member of 96. Chapter IX – The founding of Serbia's state lottery, he says, "To organise classic gambling and gambling through the Internet, telephone or other means through telecommunications connections, the Republic is establishing the State Lottery of Serbia". In his explanation, the government said, "In view of the way the betting area has developed in Serbia, and in order to monitor and prevent the negative consequences, the preparation of games via the internet and other similar media is envisaged by law to remain a monopoly of the Serbian State Lottery." Prior to that, she said - to achieve maximum fiscal effects, the right to perform classic games, means classic cubes, is transferred to Serbia's state lottery, and then converts the debt that has so far been held by social betting organisations, for gambling, especially to funds. This is turning into ownership of the Republic, so that, practically, the Republic takes over several social enterprises in Serbia that have been registered for this activity. The government has been eager to own a debt-to-bank conversion, over casinos, but has not dared to take over the great giants who are losers and who depend on the fate of many cities, I would say, the fate of Serbia as a whole. We're going to discuss this bill as much as one of us is capable of assessing the cube in the first place. The cube is a social evil, inevitable in every country in the world. It is good that the law allows as strict a state control of the cube as possible, and under that control, I mean collecting income and tax collection. Otherwise, the fact that many people are going to lose their full assets, that some families are going to be left without even family heads, because a lot of people commit suicide because they gamble, so they're taking out the dice, so they go home and property, that state, of course, can't stop this law. That's not what I'm saying to the state. I object to the state that this is one of the students' laws she's done so far. Everyone here has predicted that a man can't write an amendment to the bill on gambling, and we can write hundreds of amendments on all other laws and defend them, but these gamblers have learned the trade well, obviously. So, I would ask you to think carefully about the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, especially the key provision, because giving classical gambling to happiness in the jurisdiction of only one firm is a key provision. That's the basis for profit. But I'm interested -- how does the government think that in this constitution, it justifies the monopolision of a single entity in one branch of activity? That's not what the Serbian Constitution allows. Maybe it allows the Constitution of Slovenia and let's say that we are part of Slovenia, that we take the protectorate and say, "Yes, in Slovenia it's monopolised." The government prescribed ten casinos. And there's something I don't understand. Why isn't it a thousand, why isn't one casino, why isn't it as much as it can? If you set the conditions for technical equipment, the conditions for distance from school, kindergarten, I would say even from a sports facility, even from the church, that we don't embarrass ourselves. If anyone meets all these conditions, let him make that casino. He'll buy cement, iron, brick, marble, top-of-the-line glass, he'll make a top-of-the-line interior, and he can't get around much of this poor thing. It might even be good in Belgrade to predict one gambling zone, one casino zone, let it shine, let the foreigners come to gamble. I remember, I was a child, strangers came to St. Stefan to gamble, newspapers wrote about it. That Yugoslavia probably made some revenue out of it. I didn't mind that. I don't go into the casino except when the elections are, then I have to gamble, something bites me, because every time they predict radicals less than we win, and I know I'm gonna take their money. A lot of people are gambling, the area has been completely unregulated for two or three years. Let's also help you regulate, but no monopoly, no limit. It seems to me that someone cares about the business space that has so far been owned by lottery organizations, and it is indeed an extraordinary business space; however, it is extremely equipped and always in the city centre in all the cities in Serbia. If the law is passed to the Assembly, if it is declared by the President, we will launch a procedure to assess the constitutionality of this law, and then perhaps it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be late at night, but there is time next week, a debate will continue, to look at this bill again, to determine whether it can defend it before the Constitutional Court, so if you can defend it, let it remain as a bill. I'd give myself another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5637	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the DSS, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5638	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I hope you won't mind me trying to be very brief. The cube is a social problem that can turn into evil unless there is a clear law that will regulate relations between the state, which should control this area, and those who can, my predecessor mentioned, to lose not only the house, but also the head. He described Dostoevsky as the best thing that happens to gamblers who lose all their property. But, let's remind ourselves, we won't be able to root out the cube, so it's much better to get the cube into some sort of order. This law seeks to put order in place in this area and will therefore be supported by the DSS, with the support of several amendments to this law, which facilitates a very strict condition, especially in areas that cover the performance of the games, i.e. It's a gambling casino. It seems to me that in those two parts of this bill are very strict conditions, and it will lead to a good part of the bookies and gambling going to the gray or illegal zone. Let's remind ourselves, and when the cube was an illegal business in these areas, people were losing their houses in gambling, so their heads. If you think, Mr. Minister, that one part of the organized cube doesn't go into the gray zone, I'm going to ask you to make a few amendments, and we'll talk about them, definitely accept, so that just one more evil doesn't happen to us, after this law is passed. As far as constitutionality is concerned, let the Constitutional Court decide. It's our job to sort out an area of social life the way we think it's best.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5639	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. I give my word to MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5640	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Tom Nikolic said the cube is a social evil. That's a big truth. I remind each of us who approach the debate on this law, if he forgets, to read once again "The first time with his father in the morning", as much as to remind us of what a family and a good host can get into when they are completely touched by such a prophet like the Cube. But politics is a skill that is possible and our task is to, and that is, try for those social categories that need great help, to benefit economically, if possible for humanitarian and sports organisations, to provide adequate quality financial resources for the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's a big game that in a way that regulates the law and how it's arranged in the largest number of countries, something that is defined there as an economic activity, we can mention several major world centres that form the basis and, unfortunately, the pattern of this industry, like Las Vegas or some other. So, if we have all this in mind, our task here is delicate and we have a responsibility to get in the most serious way and to do this the right way. Since Mr Zoran Angelkovic, who is the authorised representative of our parliamentary group for this item of the agenda, will say something about these and the amendments he has submitted, would not forgive me for the horsemen of the "Milenko Niksic" Horse Club in Cačka, without saying a few sentences here for this address. The law will completely shut down several hundred small clubs in Serbia, which are partly or completely financed from small, inappropriate and inappropriate raffles. I ask fellow MPs from Cuck and others to support me in what I say. I must say, with grief, that one of the most beautiful sports like the horse is funded in a completely inappropriate way. The "Milenko Niksic" Horse Sports Club in Cačka was founded in 1892. The oldest sports organisation in western Serbia was founded as the Shumadian chariot rider "Knez Mihajlo", and in 1993 and 1996, Gallopic throats "Condor" and "Chikago" won the Yugoslav Galopian derbi. And all with the help of a little raffle, which now represents a terrible place for people who can only find themselves in that place, who don't spend more than 50 dinars for the evening, but, like that, they have some kind of account in all of it. Clubs have some kind of interest in all this. There are several other people living out of it, and this law will otherwise, in a civilized way, regulate this matter, completely shut down these little raffles and leave a large number of clubs without real financial resources and resources. But I haven't found a chance to try to save these clubs in any other way, or by amendment, but I am obliged to say here that it would be good for the state to find a way to "out of the cakes" that are collected from gambling, from these large, distributions, the horse clubs don't primarily run out of adequate financial assistance. Such clubs, unfortunately, are very few in Serbia. It is the "Milenko Niksic" Horse Club in Čačka, it is the Horse Club in Kragujevac, the Horse Club in Požarevec, several other horse clubs in Zajecar and several others. Everything else is ergels and they're financed differently. So, no more injustices. When the parliament passed the law to re-emerge former owners, former MP from Mr. Milanovac, Pantelija Gacic, submitted an amendment to exclude football stadiums, the hypodroms remained within the law and clubs today returned land that had been heavily bought over the past decades. I can't help it, but I'm obliged to say that I am very concerned and sad that the horse is not a bike, when the sports competition stops, they must have proper care, veterinary protection and training, and all of this requires financial resources. I hope that when the Ministry of Education proposes a correct law on sports, and the Ministry of Agriculture supports it, that we may resolve this in a better and more appropriate way. Before the guillgames and these other import horses appeared in Serbia, not to mention the names of their owners, there were only 500 full-blooded throats of the Raseengle galloper and the American butcher. It is so small that we are all obliged, regardless of what laws it is, to preserve this throat and tradition of horse sports in Serbia, which is such that we can be proud of it. I'm asking all those who can help do that, that the cavalry clubs don't run out of financial support. We're going to have a very delicate problem in this area very soon. Thank you for letting me say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5641	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5642	Mr. Markovic, we're working on the edge of the quorum. If I were to direct you to reset the system and cancel the parliamentary cards that are in the MPs and the MPs are not there, you'd see that I'm right. But, no nervousness, colleague Aligruditch, I want to talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5643	Please respect your apology, I'll give you your time, and please the professional service, does it have any cards like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5644	I will return to the main thing that is related to this law, which was brought out by the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on the dice as one of the greatest social Halls. It's really not a bit of an example, it says in our daily newspaper that some of our fellow citizens end up as the lead actor in the novel "Pik's Lady", the Pushkin novel. It happened in smaller areas that the whole family got hurt because of that evil. In particular, it's been expressed lately, when it comes to classic games – it's a hoax for one of the classic games, which, by the way, leads some to the highest level, if the cube can be measured at all when evil is greater and when less. Unfortunately, the scariest thing is when something like that happens that people lose their lives or the whole family gets hurt. It is normal for each of the MPs, in any country in the world, to welcome such an initiative and to edit the area. But what bothers me the most, and I've been saying this all these days, is that in the act of presenting the law, Minister Mladjan Dinkic presents himself as the bearer of change in the area, that is, his ministry, and that is not true at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on gambling was delivered to the MPs in the spring of 2002. He delivered it then, and now in a somewhat altered form, former Finance Minister and friend Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, and throughout the hot summer of 2002, I remember it perfectly well when there was poisoning in the then DOS coalition, it was said whether in July, in the last decade, it would come on the agenda. I am saying this because Minister Dinkic himself said that the basis for setting up this area is actually the basis for more effective budget filling, for more appropriate punishment for those who abuse, that is, committing criminal acts in this area and for all those involved in gambling to be protected from all negative consequences. Of course, it is the consciousness of a man who needs first of all to protect him, not to go to any greater evil, not what the state can and what one ministry and law can. I carefully looked at it during today from the first to the last member of Djelic's bill and compared it to the one that provided us with the current ministry, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic. There are some changes, some eliminations, and it's unnecessary, and I guess Dinkic himself didn't do it, thrown out of that bill a description of classic gambling. Someone will say, "Why is this necessary when they are only mentioned?" Because of the fact that there is no free interpretation of the specific names of the games and what they are, what the procedure is, what the rules of this game are, and that was all in that Djelic's bill of law. On the other hand, in the case of classic gambling, and they bring the biggest profit, something exists and is represented on our unregulated market, but it is suspicious and unconstitutional that it will be regulated through this law. That's what they're called. video lottery games. It is said there, in the original bill, and it is likely that those who have dealt with this area were right to say that they are games of chance organised through a video terminal, which are connected to an electronically controlled network of so-called. Jackpot, and there it is described how procedures are conducted, or what the rules of these games are, and the stakes are not small. However, there is uncertainty about special gambling, when it comes to, and I assume that the lady is next to the Minister of the Ministry and that she is one of the main participants in the creation of this law, i.e. the games that are being held on the machines of so-called. Multipliers. This is not exactly what multiples are, or automatic clubs, with machines and other machines with multiple roles and winnings. What is most important, and these are the powers given to the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and its monopoly position this time expressed through provisions of laws that are anti-constitutional. The question is raised openly, and this is what Mr Nikolic was talking about, why 10 permits, why not 100, why not 1,000. Those people who follow it, and especially the members of the stronger sex, conditionally, are interested in this lottery and sports forecast, even though it is not foreign to women, could also indicate the number of organisations and what betting stations are in the country that are held in the right sense by the monopoly. So it is quite understandable that if the government has given itself the right, that is to say, to wrongly take the monopoly into its own hands, that the number of 10 permits fits precisely in the 10 largest houses, i.e. companies and companies involved, and unfortunately I cannot count all their names for you, although some of them have and how they express their advertising. First of all, it is those companies, the companies that organise it, which are present from the north to the south of Serbia. There are some in the smallest municipalities in Serbia by population, such as the Lapovo municipality in the forest region. As far as the license is concerned, it's more than suspicious to us. As for the establishment of an administration that deals with the arrangement and giving permits to organise classic gambling, it is absolutely unclear who proposes members of the administration, who are members of the administration, what is their mandate, how they will act and how they will work. As for an organisation that is established as a kind of public enterprise, it is a classic form of monopoly and the possibility that people close to the current government and the ministry, which determines the rules of the game, affect who gets the license. It is not clear that, above all, it is not that such a contract, and it is already envisaged that a real contract with the government is realised, that the provision of a law that speaks of who can enter into a contract and who gets the permit is not told, or is unarranged, and that is what Mr Dinkic should stand for, that this permit cannot be passed on to a third party. The importance of the permit, or length of its duration, is also very important and we have the same objection. And we have an objection to this fluctuating amount when it comes to the one who gets the license, and we need to ensure the payout of the profits and the collection of public revenues. We think there is a better solution for those who need to be secured at such a risk as the cube, that it is not enough that the licensee has this fluctuating amount of at least 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent per toy, or that it has a bank guarantee at such a fixed amount, but that during the entire duration of the licence, and it is unclear how long it lasts, it should be a much larger amount, than, say, a million euros, which will constantly be a guarantee for the payout and payment of public revenues. This last position in article 39, which says - the director of a special gambling game in toys must be provided every day when games are arranged to be provided at the casino's risk-deposit account of at least 50,000 euros of dinar equivalent, based on the approval of the administration – there is no guarantee if it is only in the days when the game is being provided, or when it is being staged, but we believe that this amount of, say, one million euros, we can talk about, should be constantly present as a deposit during the duration of the licence, which is incorrectly said. Editing space, as Mr Nikolic himself said, where it will be organised, of course as far away from school institutions as possible, and it must be predicted, because it is a great risk and a danger for our youth to go that way, and then everything else regarding technical conditions is unarranged and not covered by this bill. It would be really much better if the current ministry, although this too, had to be settled, and for two and a few years now waiting for the adoption of this law, started to deal with issues that really concern ordinary citizens and those who are having a hard time living today. We do not say that this area does not need the law and the ministry to regulate, but we do have a big one, and that is our main remark, and here we will also write a statement to the Constitutional Court if the law is adopted, to the monopoly position of the Government, to the restriction of the permits, so 10 of them, and above all to the indeterminateness when it comes to concrete classic games, or their free interpretation. We would also like probably all Serbian citizens, those without a job, those who live hard, those who work, that we have a situation in Belgrade and other major cities that everything is as beautiful and colorful as Monte Carlo or as in Las Vegas. It may be so in Serbia today, it may be so for some who are sitting in ministerial chairs in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but the vast majority of Serbian citizens are not. Therefore, with objections to this monopoly position, the anti-constitutional provisions, we do point out that you are no longer engaged in prescribing the law from Bozidar Djelic and starting to work, and that you have some serious procedures in the field of fiscal policy, but with relief for the citizens of Serbia to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5645	The People's Messenger Stevan Dedjanski has the word, and let the MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared. Mr. Dedjanski, just a moment, to inform the Assembly of the request for a Rules of Procedure, Article 117. National MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly. You pointed out that article to me, and I immediately gave the order to the Professional Service. For Section 2 reads: "If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, or next to it, his identification card, the Service of the National Assembly will immediately deliver that card to the secretary of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. "During the control I asked for on the MP's initiative, a single card was found beside which the MP did not take with him. It's MP card 143 of Michael's. She is at the secretary's office and will be returned when she enters the O.R., and I give him a warning. In the meantime, the parliamentary card was reset. I've been informed by the professional service. Also, under Article 217, the MP on permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is required to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. Item 2: "The People's MP of Article 1 who is unjustly absent when determining the quorum or during the work at the National Assembly session will be deprived of the status of Members of Parliament in permanent work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "Today I asked the Professional Service to check whether the MPs in the hall were in constant work and whether they participated in the work of the session and I have a list in front of me. I now also order the Professional Service to check again and, in case there are MPs who do not participate in the work of this session, as well as in the first and second cases, I will request that their status be taken away from them permanently. Here you go, Mr. Dedjanski, and the word after you is Mr. Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5646	I'd go back to this gambling law. As has already been said before, the cube is one great evil, and it is high time that the law on gambling and gambling was settled in the first place. So everywhere in the world, gambling revenues are a big item in the budget. It is explained that the basic reasons for the adoption of gambling laws are to limit gambling opportunities, which we agree, to improve the supervision of gambling directors, to a greater and more efficient collection of public revenues achieved on the basis of the organisation of gambling games, as well as the affirmation of socially least negative gambling games through the establishment of a state lottery. So it's said that one of the items is tightening the criteria and we agree that they need to be further sharpened. As Mr Nikolic said earlier, we think that a law on special measures should be laid down, so special regulations should be taken as far away as possible from schools, sports clubs and churches, which we do not think is precise by this law, and should be specifically stated, that it might act. It's also noticeable, as I said at the outset, and it's a normal expectation of charging the budget of the gambling revenue. The only possible issue here is that it is expected that the application of this law will provide more significant fiscal revenues, up to about 70m euros. We think it may be a little overexpected, but we understand the need to fill such a massive budget, because now it's showing that we were right and when we criticized the budget at the beginning that it was unrealistic. Also, I won't be too long about it, I mentioned the monopoly given by this law and which has the Ministry or the state lottery that gets it through it. Furthermore, there is talk of dedicated revenue in the Republic's budget. It is said that the proceeds from bringing up games of chance and compensation for the award, fees for the permit, or fees for the approval for the award of the award, as well as other funds, are made by this law, because the revenues are from the budget of the Republic. We are going back to what I just said is that the goal is to fill a hole in the budget, while 40% of these revenues are being allocated to finance the necessary social organisations, and that is to say the associations of citizens implementing the programme in order to protect and improve the situation of persons with disabilities, social protection institutions, social humanitarian activities, amateur sports and local self-government. So the intention and income is fine, but we think the difference could be greater in favour of these categories, more than 40% of the income should go for it, and less for covering the hole in the unrealistic budget. Also, the problem and the remark is in the surveillance section. So the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law is carried out by the Ministry. Obligations and rights for editors and authorised persons shall be established and the conditions for temporary decisions on the prohibition shall be defined in the event of an irregularity or illegal implementation of the game. The remark in all of this is not that the ministry has already been listed several times by the minister, so the supervision of the minister, who has dealt with various affairs in the past, is not a firm guarantee. Finally, there is one question, since the explanation and reasons for the passing of the law by emergency procedure is as follows: "The adoption of this law by emergency procedure proposes in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is necessary to make this area more urgent and secure revenue in the budget," I would like to say again, what I have mentioned twice or three times in the speech so far, that the whole purpose of this evening's sitting and the speed and urgency of this procedure is reduced to having a huge hole in the budget. I return to the fact that the SRS has said that the budget itself is not well projected, that there will be problems in achieving it and now it is shown that we are coming up with a general crisis that is passed through all other users and through agriculture, through health care and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5647	The People's MP Branislav Stevanović has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I start talking about this bill's proposal, I would like to make two very important remarks, which is that Miss Ksenija Milivojevic suggested to extend the work of this session, so she immediately left this room and went home. It's one thought-out insinuation, so that the worse we get, the longer we work, the more we're tired of doing the bill. I'm not asking for criticism, but I'd like to say and ask everyone from the ruling coalition, if they haven't read this bill carefully, to read it. What's going on is that it's a set-up mob law, which the gamblers and the mob have come up with, that a mob that the government has long been in sport would take primate casinos, where big money runs. The reasons for passing this bill are not only to fill the budget, but to take the primate of private mobsters and I would especially highlight the bookie who wants to put out less betting. That's the very conditions the administration requires in this law say, and since I'm from amateur sports, I feel more like it than people who aren't into sports, for the reason I'm going to say that this is how amateur sports funded themselves, it could have survived. But now this way, since small bookies and small toys will be put out locally, it is a direct interruption of amateur sports, because there will be no source of funding for these smaller amateur clubs. And also, I'd like to say about the distribution of funds that this undefined administration regulates, I don't know, and it's not precise how amateur sports can be financed. Also, I'd like to say that the special gambling machines are very close to the school, so it's listed to be 150 meters away, and that's a very small distance. I think it would be appropriate from 500 to 1,000 meters to be a remote school. Also, one of the conditions here is rigorous and thus suggests that it is a monopoly itself, for example, a bookie should have 30 deposit places, which the bookies who have fewer bookies won't have, and then the monopoly will take big bookies and so on. The mafia, which wants to take the primate and channel the main funds towards itself, of course, with the help of Mr Dinkic. Also, gambling control itself is not adequate and precise, because this board, the board of directors you form, will certainly be in agreement with those monopolies holding large bookies and toys. The gambling fee is too high for smaller bookmakers and other casinos to meet those conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5649	The People's MP Milan Stevovic has the word, and let the People's MP Vjerica Radeta be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are quite tired and I will try to speak to you very briefly in order to ask the motionary to answer a few questions. The first question I ask is -- how does he think that income in the Republic of Serbia's budget is distributed to local self-government? I understand how this will be distributed to appropriate organisations, persons with disabilities, humanitarian organisations, actions, etc., but I do not understand the intention to assign parts of the funds to local self-government. I would ask another question because of the special gambling -- why does the government not give the right to appeal for the permission it issues? You can see here that it's ten that meet the criteria, but for such a decision, past those ten, there's no right to appeal. If it can be answered, I'd be pleased. Otherwise, I would have ended up with this, and I have no special right to talk about this law, given the finding that gambling games are fortunately gambling and that is what the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, is best spoken of. For gambling in this country, it was criminal. It's a very rare crime, and I can tell you that in the 1980s to 1990s, only two courts have tried a criminal act of gambling, because it's hard to find and discover. One of the judges, better say the president of the council, was me and sentenced five men to the dice. For those reasons, I don't want to talk about this law anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5651	Well done. Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Let MP Vitomir Plužarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5652	Mr. President, this time you have nothing to talk to someone from the bench, like just now while the speaker was standing behind this pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, gambling is a gamble and we all know it. We also know that the cube is the greatest or one of every nation's greatest Halls and every society. It is necessary for this matter to be regulated by law, but it must be regulated in one serious, systematic way and it needs exceptional caution. The law must in no way be at the expense of the state, and in particular it must not be at the expense of the citizens, and it must be at the maximum of this law and this law to protect society from this evil which is called the Cube. The most important thing is that we don't see in this law, that casinos can't be within the reach of the school's youth, that they can't be in the center of the cities, but that's not the problem that this government, through this bill, has dealt with. It seems that this is not the government's goal, but that the government's goal is to put in place labour control, namely to exert a direct influence on the work of the state lottery and other lottery organisations. The centre of this law should be a citizen, not a charge of the state budget, regardless of the fact that the minister here says how much funds will be filled in the budget under this law, there were other priorities that the law had to treat. It was not clear to me when the minister said, he is not here whenever I say, that in the current conditions of gambling, the fiscal contribution was about 600 million dinars, and afterwards, the minister says the state has lost in this business. I didn't realize it, but it doesn't seem to be a minister either, since it's obvious that he didn't write this law either, and that's why he's bringing his associates here, harassing people to sit here for hours, so they can whisper to him in any way to answer any of the MP's remarks, provided he's in the mood to even communicate with the MPs. We had SRS, and we have objections to this law, and when we agreed in the parliamentary group on the proposal for this law, we decided not to submit amendments for two reasons. The first reason is that the minister obviously ignores the MPs, if he doesn't ignore them, then he insults them and we ignore the minister in this way. The second reason is that we had today's law before this, which incorporated the SRS amendments three years ago. We will no longer give reason to governments to install our amendments through amendments and amendments to the law, but rather wait for some future, early parliamentary elections, so we will regulate every matter ourselves, in the way the SRS sees it, and certainly as it suits the citizens of Serbia. I'm going to say something about some of the members of this law, what's most characteristic. In Article 11. The government says, "The Board of Games is being educated, as a management body within the ministry, to carry out the affairs of the state administration in the field of gambling. "I was worried, we just finished discussing one law, you didn't predict any agency, not one administration, when here, we have a gambling management. Of course, where would this government without those paraorganizations. Because if there weren't these paraorganizations, where the party activists would be employed, then the government would have to do something. This is how they set it up for someone else. There's, you can say, a colleague. In article 19, the national lottery of Serbia is entitled to play classic games. It says in the bill, and says -- Serbia's state lottery can hire legal persons, entrepreneurs or natural persons for sale. It's not quite clear how a legal person can be an agent, but it looks like it's some kind of bad translation. The government, the bill said, will regulate the way and conditions of engagement of operators and agents from this member. I guess the government's gonna figure out how a legal person can be an agent, but we don't think the government can interfere in this way. The government should have much more pressing and important jobs than the interests of Serbian citizens, but this does not apply to this government. In Article 50, the entry into the toy room is determined by the editor. He says, "The editor can forbid the entry of individuals or groups of faces without giving reasons." Well, he can't. This is indeed another violation of the Constitution, one of the fundamental constitutional rights, the right to freedom of movement. How can a editor, with no special explanation and no valid reason, forbid anyone from entering these rooms? To stand here – under certain conditions, which is exactly what conditions, which would make sense, could be accepted. Furthermore, the same article says: “If it is believed that a particular person’s income, i.e. property opportunities, is not allowed or allowed to participate in gambling to a limited extent, the editor may permanently or for a certain time prohibit entering a toy or restrict the number of visits to that person. ” This can hardly be regulated in this way. The fact is that it is necessary to protect citizens from the destruction of property at stake, but unfortunately, it is impossible to do so with this or any law, except to abolish such institutions, i.e. playgrounds in the Republic of Serbia at all. In this way that someone ‘ fundamentally believes, ’ indeed, nor do we know who, nor what that established belief means to him, regardless of the good intentions of the promoter, it is unacceptable to pass laws that directly violate the Constitution. To carry out certain tasks in toys, prescribed by the finance minister, there must be a licence. This is what article 51 says. He also says: “A license issued by this member of the issuing or acceptance of the Administration. ” This wouldn't be this government if it didn't have a license. These administrations, these licenses. Don't make this a science. It's incomprehensible what that license means and what someone needs to lay down to get that license. This newspaper, which is not only characteristic of this law, is something that will keep this government in mind. In the final position of Article 75, the authorisation procedure states: ‘The Minister of Finance shall be closer to determining the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 1(1).’. Imagine, in the position of the 1st of this article, there are decadently ten conditions that must be met, which must be applied to the request for approval. What else does the minister need to determine? Is he supposed to determine the commission? There's nothing else, because everything is regulated by law and the minister has no need, no reason to interfere in this business. In Article 96, it states: “To organize classic gambling on happiness and gambling through the Internet, telephone or other means through telecommunications, the Republic established the State Lotrium of Serbia. ” It really is a monopoly and it really is an unconstitutional category, as it is unconstitutional to regulate that ten casino permits will be given. It seems to coincide with existing lottery organisations, which already exist in Serbia. No one can individually, and especially the law cannot limit any action in Serbia. We already have this case at the Belgrade city level, where the number of licenses for taxi drivers is limited. It's also unconstitutional, and this in the same way, except this at the level of the Belgrade City Assembly is doing Bogdanovic, because it's being done to him, and we here in this law even propose it as a legal solution and we force someone to do this, who's applying it, to have to do something against the constitution. You say of the violations in article 98: "A fine of between 10,000 dinars and a million dinars will be fined for the violation of the Serbia State lottery and the legal person who did so," and then 52, but how many different cases will be charged. We in the SRS think this is too wide. You know, if you have a penalty range of 10,000 dinars to a million dinars, then you really open the way to various abuses. In Article 101 of the transitional and final provisions, you say: "The achievements and the unmistakable obligations of the Society's gambling company, the lottery of Serbia, Belgrade, the Society's gambling company – Lutrija Belgrade, with full responsibility, the company "The People's Lottery", etc. Not to read, takes over this newly formed administration, assumes all the obligations of these existing Lutheran organizations. A logical question is now being raised – which the state does not take on the obligation of large enterprises in Serbia, so that it also begins to work as a flag, Magnochrom, Dragon, Record, etc. 'Cause they're not working. This is where the state shows it's capable of doing it. Where the state has an interest, it will take over those commitments, which will be paid to it very quickly or individually, that is a particular issue, and where the interest of Serbian citizens is, the state says there is no possibility of such a thing. Finally, the last member of 106 says, "This law takes effect the next day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". "This is another unconstitutional member. Unbelievable. I don't understand why the government needed to bring this many unconstitutional provisions into this law. Namely, Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The law, second regulation or general act shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." Which are particularly justified reasons, if any, we have not heard it from the minister in his opening statement. In the light of the law, it states: “The reasons for the entry into force of the next day since the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" are contained in the fact that solutions proposed by this law are more urgently implemented and to prevent possible speculation during the transitional period, which makes it a particularly justified reason within the meaning of Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." The MPs of the National Assembly received this proposal on June 18th, and the law was in the government before that. Therefore, any negative consequences that could be produced due to some possible abuse during the transitional period could and could still be carried out. There is really no reason to be in such a hurry to apply this law, of course, unless there is something behind it that does not appear in this law, something that is the interest of individuals, whether they are in government, whether they are owners of various casinos in Serbia. The papers have been writing about it for days. Where there's smoke, there's fire. It is obvious that that is all that is at stake and that is why this law should have been passed during this period when the Assembly should be on vacation, in an extraordinary session. That's why work hours are being extended today, to pass this law tonight. It's probably already been typed and waiting in the official messenger, only tomorrow morning to show up, so it starts to apply as soon as possible. And what consequences will this law have? For God's sake, neither are the citizens of Serbia nor Serbia's lottery.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5653	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5654	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of gambling was supposed to be on the agenda of this assembly long ago -- both because of the social role and function of this activity and from the aspect of the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. If that's what matters today? It is known that from ancient times i.e. since the very establishment of the lottery, this activity has been found in the state monopoly. When I say long ago, I mean the Milky Way, who first invented the state lottery to fill his budget. The States shall control this activity through the work of state lottery companies or through concessions to gambling companies and other special games. All this because of the size of that. the form of this type of traffic and specificity itself, and for the purposes of public income of this type for covering disabled, humanities, social needs and financing amateur sport. With the government pointing out that it is constantly taking steps to curb illegal actions and crime, it is surprising that this long-term with the law that the previous government has started. It is even more surprising when it is a public secret to what is happening in certain existing social enterprises of lottery activity, and to boards all the time since October 2000 until today, people who are outside members are sitting, while members of the party in power. It is also surprising that there is no control over public revenues from toys in private-owned automatic clubs - and we are fighting crime. Who was it appropriate that with the introduction of order into this activity, it would be so long? Wasn't that the time used to accumulate the necessary capital, especially when there was a lack of urgently needed budgetary resources for socially sensitive purposes? Moreover, when it is widely known that people in times of crisis turn to dice, betting, and all other gambling games that give them the opportunity to solve their problems overnight, of course, if happiness serves them. This psychological bait is getting more and more pronounced with us because there's a sale of social enterprises and people are staying on the street, with no perspective whatsoever. In light of the proposal for a law on gambling that we are considering today, it states "this area is currently poorly regulated and under poor supervision so that fiscal effects are very low". These arguments can't be agreed on in this way because they're three separate things. In fact, the area of gambling has been regulated by law -- because it applies, but only in part, the 1992 Act on Games of Happiness. Why partially? Because the part that regulates the formation of Serbia's state lottery was not applied at all, although it was supposed to be done in mid-2002 (because the decision of the Serbian Constitutional Court was then made that this law was applicable). So it was supposed to form a national lottery first, and then claim whether it's well or poorly organized, not vice versa. Secondly, it's under low surveillance, but we had financial police and SDK that didn't control it and the Ministry of Finance that didn't alarm that budget income was not being paid on the basis of gambling taxes. It's the same story as all economic operators in Serbia. We need to devalue the company and then sell it by system we know which one. Third, let Minister Dinkic say how much he charged public revenues based on gambling in the past year and in the period from January to June of the current year, especially for classical, and especially for gambling and similar games (betting and other) - because these are two separate things and are collected first from social lottery companies, and others from gambling and betting companies. On what basis did Mr Dinkic perform a fiscal income account of around 70m euros, when he did not even say the period to which he relates? Could that be one day's income? One more thing, in the explanation is the higher and more efficient collection of public revenues generated on the basis of the organisation of gambling, and again I ask - how is it that members of the parties in power have been sitting all the time in the boards of social lottery firms since October 2000. Furthermore, the new law organises Serbia's state lottery to ensure order in this area and the monopoly state. At the same time, the existing Lutri social enterprises, which have not yet worked as prescribed by the current law, are in the future turning into a limited-responsibility society, with a majority share of the state. It is actually a parallel network with Serbia's state lottery -- instead of branches or regional centres of the same company called the state lottery. Let Minister Dinkic explain the future status of these lottery societies with limited responsibility and their entire ownership structure. So, to explain who the co-owners are next to the state, and what is this all about? Furthermore, in the first sentence of the bill’s reasoning, “games of happiness” or gambling is a serious social problem. You should see what a serious social problem it is when gambling is at stake. This is because, with regard to gambling, it's mostly a question of whether they're a blessing or a curse? Science has found that the answer is not simple at all. According to science, the following reasons are in favor of blessing: 1) games are as old as man, or culture; 2) contribute to the ability to decide man; 3) participate in the socialization of man; 4) give man the opportunity to make money through various games. But at the same time in the context of the curse, they tell the fact that gambling leads to: 1) failure; 2) a state of depression; 3) the ways of sin; 4) a fall to suicide. Despite all this, gambling has proved to be a positive phenomenon throughout history, and disease, addiction and obsessive games or pathological games are some other always negative phenomena. Unfortunately, the warning and treatment of pathological games is more complex than defining the state only to limit games to happiness. For these reasons, all democratic countries have managed the following two positions to regulate this issue and this: 1. The games are fortunately met by social needs, prohibition only drives gambling into an illegal sphere; 2. in the organisers (a game-makers) a significant amount of extraprofit is achieved, which can be used for socially useful purposes. For these reasons, the "technical" of the gambling organization is unique in all civilized countries because the lottery is state-owned. It is said that in democratic countries anything is allowed not to be prohibited by legal norms. That's true for most of human activity, but with the organisation of gambling, it's a completely different situation. This activity is prohibited strictly, punishable, except for permitted games of state lottery or games of special approval for some editors. In addition to the unique technical regulation, it is also a unique philosophy of normative regulation: this philosophy can be covered as an attitude that the needs of games must be met, but in no case should they be potentiated. In other words, the offer must not exceed the demand. Let's go back to the reasons and arguments offered in the light of the law. The following is said: "The restriction on the ability to gamble is reflected in the tightening of criteria (financial, technical, spatial and with regard to employee training) for the preparation of special gambling games. "Is that a world experience? Under this explanation there is actually a pooling of large organizers’ toys, while closing small objects, since according to the bill one can get ten permits. If the condition for working under this law is to control gambling machines in all facilities and to stick a sticker on the gambling card in a visible place, and the same administration has the authority to keep the work under constant control - what does it have to do with the size of the toy and the number of machines with the restriction of gambling opportunities? With regard to the need to introduce order, I ask the following question: why does the bill regulate the minimum level of payment to players on gambling machines, so-called. Automated, deviating from the world's standards? Or to go closer to the world, in the neighborhood, why did we not read a member of the 94th Slovenian, neighbourly law, for example, where it literally says: “A game machine must be so configured that it returns at least 90% of the money invested to players. In the room provided for slot machines, the sea director shall point out in a visible place the notification of the minimum average return rate of the invested money’. The bill that we are now considering, in Article 85, reads: “The gambling machine must be so constructed, or adjusted to pay the players at least 60% of the value of the payments to the total number of programmed combinations.” For comparisons, I will also quote Djelic's proposal, which in Article 88, formulates the following: "The lucky game machine must be so constructed, i.e. set to pay the players at least 75% of the value of the gambling payments in the three-month period after the technical examination has been carried out, with the recording of the entry and exit via the electronic dial." Here, gentlemen of Parliament, compare yourself and conclude on your own what the promoter wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5655	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5656	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS fully agrees that this matter must be regulated by law, in two directions. The first is that those who are throwing gambling at the happiness of some bill are prevented from fulfilling their obligations to the state, and the second is that gambling as a social evil must still be accepted, that it exists and should not be forced into illegal action, but let it be done in places where the law provides, to regulate that area by law, for those who decide to go that way, that those who stage these games are lucky or gambling, however you wish, cannot fool participants. It is very difficult, but at least one part of the safety of the participants, or gamblers, exists in the event of gambling. However, the Serbian government, as so far, is dealing with itself and its own interests. Its only goal is to secure income for itself, so if it is possible for someone close to the government to achieve a certain charm. You can see that already in Article 6. The bill, which says: “The preparation of gambling is an act of general interest for the Republic. ” I'm surprised. This is the government's first legal proposal where some area of conjugation is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia, and it's still a gamble. It's like Serbia's Monaco or Las Vegas. It's like there's gonna be someone coming from the side to gamble here. It is as if you have created conditions for such a thing or – once you look in the mirror and say that most of the gambling will be done by the citizens of Serbia, who often because of the fall in standard of living, these sweet promises of gambling attract even more. People simply lose their minds in all these offers and decide to do something like that. Paragraph 2 of the same article states: “Playing games is the right of the Republic, if this law does not provide otherwise. ” We're already at the part where we talked about it being a charm. The third attitude states: “The Republic does not guarantee winnings... "Well, there's a monopoly here, but there's no guarantee if someone makes some kind of profit. Article 7 states: “The Republic may, in accordance with this law, transfer the right to play games to happiness. "Well, that's the first part, where it's already suggested that this law should be arranged. Furthermore, that someone will have a monopoly and that someone will be privileged is already seen in Article 10. The bill, in the final attitude, which says: “It is forbidden to use the words: lottery, lotto, bingo... In the name of... except the State lottery of Serbia." Well, let the Serbian State lottery regulate that name with patent, protection and should not be a right that will be directly achieved through the Serbian Parliament. Besides, I don't see why the state lottery would be privileged to do all this. In article 11, you've already become a little original. Here, for the first time, probably because of criticisms that have existed so far at the expense of the previous one, and this government, article 11, says: “The Board of Games is being educated.... ". If only you had put on the agency, you would have signed this law exactly as the law of the previous and these governments. It is obvious to you that you will always educate some authorities that are difficult to be controlled by the National Assembly, and in Article 6 paragraph 1, you said that gambling is a matter of general interest to the Republic, and that the Board of Games will only be responsible for the Minister. So much for your honesty, although nowhere in the bill can you imagine who educates this administration, what its organisational structure is. Does she have any committees? Is there any advice? Are there at all any bodies of that administration and who controls her work? But that's why you wrote well what the authorities are. And that's where it's all disputed. For Article 12(3) states that the Administration also performs issues relating to the issue and withdrawal of licences. It is the codification of the permit that questions the honesty of those people who will work in that administration, in which way and by which criteria these permits will be issued. In Article 19, in order to remain consistent with yourself and this whole bill, Article 2 states: "The state lottery of Serbia, with the previous consent of the government, can engage legal persons-operators to organise classic gambling." This means that the organisation of some gambling, because of the bill's proposal, will be able to deal with a narrow circle of legal persons. In whose property these legal persons will be – this is already not defined by law, but I believe that one good part of the legal entity will be private property, so the question is, how will they get the permits, what criteria and what fees? The commissions to be paid to the administration. In Article 37, which is extremely controversial, where the whole law may be written again because of a narrow circle of people, it is said in paragraph 1. - The government can give no more than 10 licenses to throw games of good luck in toys. The following article then lists criteria, such as a million-euro deposit, which must be harmonised, as the last stance says - a legal person who has been granted permission to maintain the base capital at the level of Article 1, which means that the minister is already afraid of inflation, i.e. the euro jump, and wants to be provided by law. As the euro leaps, so those who participate in these games pay the difference as a deposit. In Article 40, in order to outsmart yourself, it states in paragraph 2 that, with the application of a public invitation for permission to perform special gambling in toys, the proposal for an amount of licence fees is also listed under point 6. So, if someone wants to participate in gambling, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Board of Games on Happiness, submits a proposal on how much they will pay that license. That's what he's delivering to the government, but I'm asking how much he's going to deliver to a possible director of that administration or maybe some assistant, or don't give God the minister who's in power then. I believe that this law should be withdrawn from this procedure, to write a new law, which will deal only with the problem of organising gambling, to be fair conditions, and to protect the public revenues of the Republic of Serbia, or by taxing, because Mr Dinkic has proved to be able to collect taxes from peasants. Otherwise, don't, gentlemen of G17 plus, be surprised that this plus in the people is slowly increasing to a percentage.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5657	The word of the Messenger of the people is Mita Abram; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning I have one remark, to ask the President of the Assembly whether he would punish Xenija Milivojevic, who proposed at 4:32 p.m. for this payphone that the Assembly should continue until the 8th item of the agenda was completed, and at 16.35 p.m. she put her backpack on her back, walked out of the hall, and she was gone. I'm asking the president if he's gonna write her down, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5659	You'll get an answer. Here, take part in the debate as announced, and then you will get an answer in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5660	You wrote these messengers who are present to punish them, and those who are not present will not be punished. So if we weren't there, you wouldn't have anyone to punish and no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5661	So I don't waste your time, I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5662	This law on gambling, as the minister has specified here, says it is necessary to protect players and that they have been unprotected, or deceived so far. I don't know who was cheating on them, whether it was revealed. If they were known to have been deceived, someone had to, these con men, bring the law in and set a certain penalty. In this case, the lucky players will be double-crossed. What they need to get, they'll get 50%, because 50% of the state will take from the total gain of gambling, so the state will schedule those 50% to pay out of the budget to social protection, even the red cross, etc., which is inappropriate. I'd say it's best that in this case the winner of the gambling should get 70%, 10% take the state, and that's going to be a win that won't work, 10% go to health care and 10% go to school. The minister predicts that out of gambling the annual income will be between 70m and 100m euros, with the fact that there will be only 10 official casinos. Then we better open another 10 casinos, have 20, and have an annual income of 200 million euros. To create Las Vegas or Monte Carlo from our country, to make it beautiful and to play only games of chance, that no one does anything. Let the state take 50%, share it with the people, and let us all live well. I don't think that idea is bad. I see you're all a little tired and everybody's looking forward to this debate ending, so I'm going to have this debate over with one joke, give you a little nap. A gypsy stands before the government every day and prays, he says, "God, please send me 100 dinars to buy the children bread." Every day he asks for 100 dinars. Someone sees him from the government and asks what this poor guy is doing there. He says he's asking God to send him 100 dinars to buy bread for the kids. Take out the minister of 50 dinars and he says throw it to the man, find it for him. It goes down 50 dinars, takes Cig, and looks and says, "God, please, the second time you send me, don't send it over to the government, 50% take it right away." And so in this gambling law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5663	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Rules of Procedure, Rule 217, Mr. Avramov. So it's about that people's messenger who doesn't report that he's gone. People's MP Milivojevic has reported that he will be absent, so everything is fine, there's no reason to worry. At the same time, the Service takes care of it. The President of the Assembly doesn't punish. I'm just warning that it's done by the Rules of Procedure and the Assembly's professional service has recorded neatly, nothing to worry about, as in the first case we just pointed out. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5664	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know you're already tired, just a few words. What bothered me the most in this bill is perhaps the distribution of revenue made under this law. The income is estimated to be distributed by 25% for funding disabled organisations, social protection services and social-humanitarian organisations, which is quite all right, sports and local self-government. I think this part of the law was supposed to be more complete. I believe that a larger amount should have been allocated in any case to finance disabled organisations and social protection institutions. We had on the agenda a point that treated social protection and we all came to the conclusion that society doesn't have enough resources. It was an opportunity for most of the funds to be allocated to this category of population. As far as sports are concerned, we are expected to privatize in sports anyway. I guess these collective sports and these clubs will be privatized. They already have the opportunity to make some revenue through rhombol and the organisation of gambling. In my opinion, these funds should have been distributed more precisely, that is, when it comes to sports, first of all, for individual sports. And as far as local self-government is concerned, in the title it's been said to sell, it's lost in Article 18. I also believe that the funds realised by this law should also be channelled into the local self-government programme, because local self-government today wastes their resources, i.e. taxpayers' funds. There will also be likely to be legal solutions that will treat this problem in due course, because it is indeed the haughtiness of local leaders, when it comes to budget spending, that is inappropriate to this people's capabilities. It also bothered me that, when it comes to minors, it is treated as Article 10, it is not criminal provisions, because it is not permitted for minors to participate in gambling, but the criminal provisions did not treat it and punish those bookies that allow minors to participate in gambling. It seems to me that the distance of the casino from the schools of 150 meters, it's treated by Article 83, too small, really not adequate. I'd still like to talk about approval. The approvals under this gambling law have been valid for three years. It seems to me that the same deadline is too small, also applies to games of chance. So, on the machine, it's three years too little. If a person invests certain funds in the adaptation of space and enters the business, it probably takes a year to recover the funds he has invested in the adaptation. That deadline had to be bigger and in this way you would probably stimulate more people to get into this job, and if we've already solved it legally, we shouldn't limit people, we should allow them to earn their own income the way the state does. It was about some of my remarks. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5665	The word is by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, and for discussion to prepare MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group agrees that it was time for this area to be regulated as far as legislation is concerned. Given that gambling in a sociological sense means a negative phenomenon in a society, the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly to adopt an emergency procedure is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What is important for every society and state is that it adopts laws that are clear, concise and that pretend that they can be implemented in practice. Of course, in our society that is not economically arranged and in a country where a phenomenon of gambling and betting is far more pronounced than in economically more well-ordered countries, this area needs to be settled. Sociologically negative phenomenon, as are gambling, in every society are an area where the state needs to deal seriously and this area needs to be arranged. In its presentation, the SRS was quite clear on this issue, that the area must be settled in accordance with the Constitution, and the law proposed by the government is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in the bill and in the presentation of Minister Dinkic, he said in his exposé to the National Assembly, gambling brings considerable fiscal income to a country and is estimated to bring about 100m euros annually. The essence of which is why this bill does not comply with the Constitution is in the formation of a monopoly of state lottery. It is said that, on the basis of the members of the bill, a member from 101 to 106, determines the status of the state lottery, as well as a change in the status of existing lotteryes of Belgrade, Serbia, the National Lottery and Yugoslavia, on the basis of their unmistakable commitments. The way and deadline for the lottery of Serbia, Belgrade and the National Lottery are set in which they must implement the change and ownership structure of the capital in the competent court register. So, the essence of this bill, which the government has submitted to the National Assembly, is to make it quick and the position of the SRS is clear on this issue. We will ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5667	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when, after the last parliamentary elections, you forged the government as you coerced it, the citizens of Serbia expected you to finally begin proposing to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly with the adoption of system laws, laws without which this state cannot function. That you will finally start by proposing reform laws, that you will start by proposing a law that will take us to this Europe, which you have promised us for four years, and that you will finally start by proposing a law that will remove those chains and locks from those objects that work, that the laws will allow new factories to be built, that all the unemployed will finally be able to find a piece of work and a piece of bread. Instead, we've been passing tax laws for ten days now. The reason is very simple. Thanks to the lack of attention of the finance minister, the budget has been completely emptied, sounds like an empty barrel and the minister has to fill it. And this law, like all previous laws, is full of nebulises and, since it's our time that the parliamentary group has at its end, I'll try just a few things to warn you. The preparation of gambling represents an action of general interest for the Republic. I thought the launch of the economy was of general interest to the Republic, that the development of agriculture is of general interest to the Republic, that industry is finally starting to work, that those few agricultural products, ours, which represent dry gold, exports to Europe, I mean raspberries, cherry. That by finally the law of that farmer, which produces it from the early spring to the harvest, you will protect, that they do not peel his skin, that peasants do not have to throw trucks of cherries and raspberries into streams. You see, system law and action of general interest to the Republic is a gambling game. There is another position in this Article 6 that also represents a certain kind of nebulism. The Republic does not guarantee the winnings made by participants in gambling. We had similar situations at that time that you've been criticizing, there's already been marathon trials, I remember from the papers, the one in Novi Sad got Mercedes on the lottery, but he never got it because there's no guarantee. The next nebulose; it says - is educated by the gambling administration. We just thought you were finally done with all the agencies, that every ministry has at least three agencies, that you would no longer form these agencies of hundreds of people. This isn't an agency, though, but it is the administration. The difference between the agency and the administration is only on behalf, otherwise, the same number of employees will have both, and they will again be on the burden of this budget, which is otherwise empty. In Article 14, in the case of classic gambling, or perhaps the minister will put it into a special member, but he did not foresee a match. Wherever you could have predicted a percentage for the state, and if you're going to enter Europe, you're going to introduce us without that kind of cube. I suggest that the government consider forming an expert delegation headed by the minister and going to Europe to see how the matchmakers are there to teach our people. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, whenever the state is in crisis, whenever society is in crisis, they're like bookies mushrooms, prize games, prize contests, doorkeepers and mags, white and black, and they prophesy fate. A hungry and poor people always try to through the game of happiness, through the lottery, through a potential premium or bingo provide bread and a slightly more bearable life for the family, but it emptys out a thin budget anyway, eventually it gets nothing, which no one has ever cared about before. The people with no hope go to the doorman and hopelessly go to the casinos. No matter what her name is, she's a vice, and she only provides delusions and illusions. However, you can see that even in the most serious newspapers, which have never had it, they now have horoscopes, and gambling and return are only consequences. The cause of misery and the social bottom that you have brought both this people and this country to your authority. The state must fight against every evil, not profit from it. The cube will not be reduced by the state taking 10, 20, 30% of the profits from what the people have gambled. It is immoral to affirm a cube, such as immoral drug affirmation, such as immoral affirmation of alcoholism and all other vices. The worst part is that's what the state is trying to make money on. Today, in all cities, we have sports bookies that are the most banignant form of the cube. He remembered the minister could squeeze some money into that empty budget. The casinos, the casinos, the entire gambling cities, you heard from the vice president of our party and the head of the parliamentary group. Find an island, make a new Las Vegas, bring in strangers who have money and have no sense, let them spend it here, and make it a full income for the state. Finally, I see that despite the amendments we have proposed, you will probably adopt, then I suggest that Minister Dinkic take Mr Labus by hand and together with him for the first time in the morning, to the first church, as soon as we adopt this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5669	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This amendment is also accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The proposal to add a new subtitle and a new Article 16a after Article 16. National MP Zoran Angelkovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new subtitle and a new member of 16a be added after article 16. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to amend the title above Article 17. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic tabled an amendment proposing a change of title above article 17. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is accepted. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. National MP Vladimir Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. This amendment is hereby rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to amend the subheading after Article 21. National MP Zoran Angelkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that after article 21, a subtitle be amended. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Angelkovic has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of Chapter 5. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. This amendment is being accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so it becomes an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. And this amendment has become an integral part of the law, given that the government has accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) And this amendment became an integral part of the law because the government accepted it. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) And this amendment has become an integral part of the law, because the government has accepted it. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) And this amendment has become an integral part of the law, because the government has accepted it. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 70th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The Legislative Committee has not spoken out on amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government accepts this amendment. The 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. And this amendment has become an integral part of the law, the government accepts it. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Professor Simonovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5670	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment refers to article 83, which in the proposal of the Government, reads: “The distance of machines and bookshops, i.e. places of payment from educational institutions (basic and secondary schools) cannot be less than 150 metres. ” I suggest that this member be changed and that it reads: “The distance of machines, bookshops, casinos and payment places from educational institutions (basic and secondary schools) cannot be less than 1,000 metres. This restriction does not apply when gambling is organised in high-class hotels, which work at night and prohibit access to persons under the age of 19." I had a chance to see that in Belgrade, next to a primary school, someone opened a bar with machines on the edge of the school yard. Then the director asked me to try to intervene, and I managed to get it out of there, because the kids, not only in breaks, were running away from class, and they were spending a little pocket money on those machines, instead of buying some muffins or some juice. I think this is a civilization achievement. When I was interested in this law these days, I found out that, for example, in Sweden, that distance goes up to 20 kilometers. We're not Sweden. I thought I'd put three kilometers, but I gave up on it, because three kilometers for smaller places is too much, so someone would place a bookie on a meadow outside a populated place, but a kilometer is still a decent distance, so that children don't exactly run in breaks to bet on during vacation or to run away from class. I expect the support of the MPs and that this amendment be accepted, because we must take care of our rejuvenation. It's not just about the cube. It's about smoking at the youngest age, it's about drugs. We have a case in Belgrade, downtown, that next to a gymnasium, a bar bar is open, where drugs are being dealt every night. Although the director complained to the SUP two or three times, it doesn't help anything. I believe that the government of such a place must distance itself from school institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-15-0.u5671	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 85th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government accepts the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic to Article 103. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We're continuing session on July 19th at 1200 hours.
