ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8491	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a serious debate, there are many amendments that MPs have submitted to the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. I remain quoted as saying that the motive for adopting and proposing such a law is precisely the disputing of disputes that will be brought by citizens of Serbia, and in connection with non-payment and non-connection of a job internship due to the lack of payments in pension and health insurance funds. I remind Serbian citizens that 100,000 workers in Serbia have no work experience and that they have no problems with employers who have not paid, in many cases, and for many years or minimum earnings, and have also not paid contributions to compulsory pension and social insurance. That the government's motive to just reject socio-economic tensions and demands directed towards the government, according to its prime minister, and to lower the level of decision, to the resolution ministry and to the bureaucratic structure under the resolution ministry, is also said this Article 9. - the establishment of a Republic agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which is contrary to the proposed law on public agencies, as regards the intended structure, way of forming and education of these agencies and the choice of governing bodies. The director of the government's peaceful dispute resolution agency is being appointed by the government, without a choice, without competition. So, a director is elected who will be at the will of the ruling regime, with direct interference in resolving work disputes, all with the aim of bringing this large number of work disputes to a standstill, to end court proceedings, to withdraw. And otherwise, this law gives them the opportunity and introduces some new legal institutes into the procedure, which is totally inadmissible. The law, for example, stipulates that when resolving peaceful disputes, it will be mandatory to require the settlement of proceedings in litigation over labour disputes. It is impossible and is not known in the legal parallel practice of any developed democratic country to provide for the procedure in two or more laws. The court procedure is only provided for in one law. The litigation procedure only takes place under the rules of the Law on a litigation procedure and is not possible either legally or legally, from the point of view of the legal institutions and legal institutes, that the proceedings in the case are regulated by specific regulations. It's just not possible. That is why I believe that this law has only political motivation, that people who are not satisfied with their relationship with employers are drawn apart, primarily from relationships in enterprises that still represent social property, for which this government has not offered any solution. This government has slowed down, there's no solution, it's slowed down privatisation, there's nothing going on in that field. Companies and large systems go into agony, workers lose their jobs, eat their substance, do not have the means to pay minimum earnings and deposit in funds, but at the same time file charges and demand payment through basic funds. It's a vicious circle that the current government has not given any solution. That is also said by the fact that, at the head of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, there has long been no minister and that the government did not have the power to fill the place in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8492	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8493	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was once again surprised by the Government and the Committee when they said this amendment was not accepted. It's amazing, but all the amendments that try to resemble these laws in some way, to facilitate the application of these laws, are not accepted. I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of the Law, which says: "The process of peaceful settlement of the work dispute is being initiated by submitting a proposal to the Agency". And I'm asking that Article 10 of attitude 1 instead of "the agency" be called "the legal aid service". In local self-government, there is legal aid, i.e. every local self-government has a legal aid service already operating in municipalities and it is normal to use these services to try to settle work disputes peacefully. The very fact that we have come this far as a state and as a society to settle labour disputes, which you have just since 2000 until today produced by your arrogant policy, your inability to raise your economy to your feet and your ability to keep over a million people in Serbia out of work, now you force people to settle their work dispute peacefully, it's cynicism! Leave a man out of a job, and then, let's calmly solve what you've been left without bread, which your family has nothing to eat! In any case, if you've already brought the state to this point, it's normal to use at least those resources you have in municipalities, in local self-government units, to do this part of the legal work you've imposed on citizens and the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8494	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and then the Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8495	The amendments to Article 10 to Article 9 and Article 7 shall, inter alia, relate to an agency forming an agency for the peaceful resolution of labour disputes. Once again, I would like to point out the fact that, within the framework of this call, the law on public agencies, which is detailed and precisely regulated by the formation of public agencies, will be found before the MPs of the Republic Parliament in a few days. Therefore, I would like to express the view of the Democratic Party, that the provisions relating to the establishment of labour dispute resolution agencies are not in agreement with the provisions envisioning the formation of public agencies, although, of course, the positive rules adopted by this republican assembly should be mutually agreed. Therefore, the agency needs to be subject to provisions on the establishment of public agencies, as it also deals with the issue of public documents and keeping records, as well as for one agency and another, among other things, is scheduled to finance part of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is also important to point out that on this proposal for a law on public agencies, this law will, as the law says, apply to all agencies established so far in relation to the organisation, work and management of agencies. I therefore think that it is necessary, in this context, to accept the amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group, which relate to the organisation of the work and the management of the agency, in order not to be in a position for the positive regulations that the ruling majority will adopt in the voting day, to re-establish at the same time that we do not have a single legal system; to have provisions that regulate the same thing in different ways and to put those who need to apply the law into a situation, that they cannot apply it in an adequate manner, i.e. that the provisions refer to a different solution to certain issues, and when they refer to the same things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8496	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the interpretation of this amendment, I must stress the position of the SRS that the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes should not have been passed, that a draft labour law should have been put before the MPs, because it is indeed high time to remove these terrible consequences that the Labour Law has been produced for two years. Why do we Serbian radicals think there is no need to form a work dispute resolution agency? So, given that you will probably adopt, if you manage to organize such a majority, this law, we have tried to at least amend it as much as we can to make it really applicable. Why do we think that there is nothing of a peaceful settlement of work disputes and that there is no need to form an agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, is evidence of what was happening in this House last night. Last night he was here at a time when TV transmissions were in the works of legal violence. The President of the Assembly let himself go, (as he knew there was no TV transmission) that within an hour he broke the Rules of Procedure one seven times during the quorum determination. He read the name of Mr Goran Jocic, who has been a non-national MP for ten days, but has therefore not read Sulejman Spah, who is an SRS MP. It's one of the violations of the Rules of Procedure committed last night by the President of the Assembly. So, we failed last night, away from the public eye, to make a peaceful deal, to keep doing it because the congregation's majority decided. We couldn't keep working, because that congregation majority was only ten minutes here, voted for an extension of work, and then went to our homes nicely, and we stayed here and we were supposed to do a quorum, which we didn't, and we never will. We're the opposition, we're here to criticise the government, the proposals the government delivers, and we're doing it this time. It's really high time, ladies and gentlemen, to break up with the practice of setting up agencies for all sorts of things. The agency that we are forecasting today is one in a number of agencies, and we all remember very well when representatives of one of the parties that makes power swore that they would remove the agencies from Serbia's legal system. To claim that there were no paraorganizations, obviously it was then, right after the election. They remembered their election promises back then, and today it's been a long time and they forgot their election promises. The topic is, fellow Members, if you do not sleep, the Law on Peace of Work Dispute Resolution, Amendment to Article 10. I guess those who follow the Assembly know it's on the agenda. So, the SRS is in principle against the establishment of agencies as some kind of paraorgans, and in this particular case, we have proposed how a peaceful settlement should be addressed, if possible, and of course not, but if the institution is already established, then it should be done nicely by legal assistance services in municipalities. We don't have new jobs in the administration, and instead of the administration, little government takes care of new jobs in the economy, there's no such thing as parole. So there are legal aid services, there's a regulation that regulates the work of the legal aid service, and that's what the government tried to explain to us. They were even lazy, so they said to all our amendments for an explanation that, i.e., that's the same as the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. So, they didn't even honor us to explain each of the rejected amendments individually. We know that the Law on Local Self-Government regulates and legal aid, the service of legal aid and what is in the work of the legal aid service today, could apply to what you provide for this law. And if there were any changes, then it would be much simpler to change one or two members of the Law on Local Self-Government, so to get this institution with a legal aid service, than to form a whole new adjudication and another force on the villa.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8498	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8499	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honored Minister, I believe that this solution from Article 10 is absolutely neither possible nor in legal agreement with the Law on Prosecution, nor the procedure envisaged for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes before the Agency with consent in the conduct of the Labour Inspectorate. This law is only in one prominent sense, it solves and creates a system for solving, peacefully resolving work disputes, and in life it will not be able to live, in reality, and for what? Because work dispute resolution is fully bureaucratised. Arbitrators and peacemakers representing civil servants, employed by the agency, are being introduced, and the director is being appointed by the government. Thus, Serbian citizens lose the right to a natural judge, an independent judge who will decide professionally on the basis of facts and evidence of the dispute case, where the parties will have an obligation to respect such a single decision. Article 10 provides for a peaceful dispute settlement procedure to be initiated here so that the parties can jointly or individually submit a request to the Agency. By delivering requests to the agency, the procedure has been initiated. , In addition to the proposal, (the last position) parties in the dispute provide documentation regarding the subject matter, as well as the names of witnesses, if any. The following article provides for a period of three days from the submission of this dossier to the contrary to which it shall be declared. It is not clear what mechanisms the dispute resolution agency has to call witnesses; what mechanisms it has to call the experts who will use the skills in this process; whether the witness will have to respond to the call of the Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution; where will the Agency be based; who will lead the register of the request for initiation, who will lead the list of solutions; who will lead the archive; how many people will be there, who will make the job systematization? How many arbitarians and peacemakers will be; how many proceedings will be conducted at the same time, will hundreds of thousands of proceedings be conducted simultaneously, because you have so many proceedings in regular courts? Does this mean that any party seeking to settle a working dispute will be able to initiate a procedure for a peaceful settlement of disputes to end a court dispute, as this law provides that, if a procedure for a peaceful settlement of disputes is launched, the case before a judicial court will be retired. Retired litigation has certain legal consequences because deadlines are foreseen there. If the party does not initiate the standstill procedure within the time limit laid down in the law, the action shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. In some cases, when the lawsuit is considered withdrawn, no work dispute can be restarted over limitations. In this way, many citizens who conduct work disputes will be left without effective legal means to resolve their request. Every Serbian citizen has the right to an effective trial, to be treated in good time, and to an independent judge and an independent arbitration officer. This procedure is surreal and he won't be able to live. This law stipulates that it will be handled from 1.01.2005. Lively and seen, this law will not be implemented because it requires a bulky administration, and it will serve only for political reconciliation among parties in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8500	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8501	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, a little bit of passion has been subdued since last night's chaotic state in a situation where Serbian citizens were unable to track what the atmosphere was like here. Mr. Lalovic, the morning is probably a little brighter for you, and I assume that based on the presentation of MPs and on the reactions that came yesterday from individual representatives of unions and companies where workers seek the protection of their rights, you realize that this law should, and you have the right to withdraw from the procedure. Here, many colleagues, not only from the SRS, but from other parties who dispute this law, have brought forth numerous objections from the legal point of view, which is why you must withdraw this law. He's a kind of lex specialis because he's opposed to the Law on Prosecution, because you have to act amendmentically. The question is whether you have this parliamentary right and whether the epilogue will all be before the Constitutional Court, not with such a president, but in changed and political circumstances when that court is independent. Mr. Minister, there are many companies in Serbia, many sad workers who seek the protection of their rights, and who, by this member who seeks to change, will be absolutely disavowed, because the procedure for resolving their work dispute is not going to be accelerated, but is further slowing down. The PKK "Kragujevac" is one of Serbia's companies, and these are unfortunately much due to the previous DOS rule; Vlahovic's ministry and such agencies. You have done nothing to change this -- neither the Privatisation Act, nor is it better now that this director of the Privatisation Agency, than the one who was in Vlahovic's time, that workers are spinning around and being forced to go on strike. Workers have been working for the PKK company Kragujevac for 15 months. They rightly dispute the way in which the company was privatised. Already in litigation, numerous hearings were held before the Kragujevac Trade Court, and you know very well Mr. Lalovic, as we said several days ago, to Mr. Stojkovic, the minister of justice, that one of the biggest problems in resolving work disputes through the trial is such behaviour by Goran Kljajevic, president of the Trade Court. So, all the problems are concentrated around Kljajevic's appearance, about the way he works and about his kind of usurpation of the position he's in. So yesterday, these people had to ask for the exception of the judge before whom they were taking this dispute, touring each other these days, the third office, and there is no help for them. Which is why the problem is if local self-government units are capable and organized. In Kragujevac it is the City of Kragujevac and has lawyers and professional help to instruct all those who seek the protection of their rights to receive such assistance through the legal service, as proposed by the SRS. You have here in article 11, provided that the agency (I demand to change on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group) if the proposal has submitted one of the parties to the dispute, the Agency shall submit a proposal and documentation to the other party in the dispute and shall call for a statement within three days whether it accepts a peaceful dispute settlement. What's the penalty if that doesn't happen, Mr. Minister, after three days? So these workers will have to go to court again and again have to seek the protection of their rights before the courts in charge. You, in the light of the law, are the key thing why you suggest such a solution, you tell us – the practice so far has shown and all of these are the consequences of such a labour law, this whole chaos, the leaving of people without a job, the protection of their rights and the Law on Privatisation. You're saying this is a much better solution for the simple reason that they're unscheduled courts, that they're buried and that they're not able to solve your accumulated problems. Which is why PKB Kragujevac's employees were guilty, I took it as an example, because yesterday in the city where I live, the problem was updated, they went to the Trade Court and sought the exception of the current judge. Which is why they are forced to, in this way, you simply force them to exercise their rights, and their constitutional and legitimate right is to turn to the court, or the courts to work more effectively. Who pays those courts and judges if you say so yourself and admit that they are unsupervised and incapable. Choose the judge's skills. Every time there was a choice of judges and a legal holder, we rightly challenged it, not all of course. There are a lot of honest, up-to-date people among them, but there are a lot of crime and a lot of corruption in this area, and it's all connected to each other. Who suffers here in the end, innocent and innocent workers who have nothing at this time, who have no money, who have lost nothing and cannot support their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8502	Anyone else want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8503	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I believe that the provision of Article 11 essentially means nothing, because the parties in the dispute need within three days to declare whether they accept a peaceful solution to the dispute. What if they don't come out and say yes or don't accept it? What happens next? No sanctions are provided. This deadline is neither crossed, whether it is instructive, which means whether it is binding or not, whether it is withdrawing certain legal consequences, this provision does not speak of it at all. Analyzing further the law shows one inconsistencies. There is talk of peaceful dispute resolution, the principle of volunteering and impartiality. But when you enter the essential analysis of the proposed provisions of this law, you will see that there is a bureaucratic obligation here to deal with a peaceful dispute settlement agency and that it has a certain but unclear impact on the litigation procedures that the parties have filed. Such provisions of the law leave the possibility for procedural abuses, that parties in a dispute before a court may, at the request of one of the litigation parties, initiate proceedings for the alleged peaceful settlement of disputes and thus withdraw litigation. In many cases, this requires unconscious participants in the dispute in order to gain time, to sell out property, so that the other side could not be in a position to collect its claim. There's a large number of dissatisfied workers. I know that in Nis many workers argue with their companies precisely because of these outstanding contributions and unsettled minimum earnings. This applies first of all to employers in the field of textile industry or machinery industry. In the most vulnerable branches, in the area of transition. In this way, the government allows employers not to continue to settle their obligations; to seek, as a party to the proceedings, a peaceful settlement of the dispute before the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, and to disagree with the person of the arbitration panel, not to deliver timely and orderly documentation. They also use this legal vacuum until the agency is even created, until conditions for its operation are created: no funds have been allocated, arbitration and peacemakers have not been selected, nor has the headquarters and premises in which peace is reportedly going to take place to resolve work disputes. I do not believe in this bill, or that this law will enter into force and will be handled from 1 January 2000. I think it's just getting time, for social tensions to stretch to another time, probably until February or March, when the new parliamentary elections will certainly be held, and this government to get some more time and some other place to nick which one of its coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8504	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8505	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I fully understand the problems that the government and the ruling furniture have. After all, one of these problems recently surfaced when the wife of one of the officials of this new, short-lived DOS came to mind that she could be a great director of an intelligence agency. BIA. It's normal that there are many who have helped you stay in power. It's normal that now you have to make it up to them in some way. If you look at Article 9 of the Law, which says, "With the work of the Agency", and we have criticised previous legal solutions for forming agencies. Wherever you can and wherever you can think of, the agency is forming. Bureaucracies are spreading. If that's how you think you can raise your employment in Serbia to some level, then I think your trip is missed. So, the agency's work is run by the director, so the director will have a directorate, so the director will have departments, and that will extend to a few thousand employees, to the last municipality. It's just that these employees don't produce newly created values, they're just going to calm down those you've driven out of jobs where they've created a new value. The SRS proposal differs in concept from your proposal. We say -- you already have enough bureaucracy in local self-government, all the way to the ministries. Use that bureaucracy that's professional for these kinds of jobs as well. Don't put up with it a little bit more, and we're still relying on agriculture, and possibly banks, for which Dinkic recently said at a banker's meeting that all domestic banks will close and that only foreign banks will be able to operate in Serbia. Shorten your appetites. Say sorry to those who supported you in these local and previous elections. Tell them that eventually you'll be able to repay them, to provide them with jobs, but don't put the administration on this country and this people anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8506	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Homan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8507	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the MPs who go out to talk about these amendments should be taking a little care of the amendments. So now it's an amendment to Article 11, if I'm not mistaken, and not Article 9, so take care. Secondly, this joint attack by SRS and DS MPs on this bill, that some kind of mini coalition here in the Assembly, doesn't seem to work very well. The first day and part of the day we heard stories about how wrong it is that this law is imposed - a peaceful dispute settlement, because we will have to interrupt court proceedings, and now we hear that there is no right to sanction unless the other party responds to a call for a peaceful settlement of the dispute within three days and declare whether it accepts a peaceful settlement of the dispute. First, agree whether you want work disputes to be settled peacefully, or whether you want work disputes to be settled in court. Don't go out for a pay phone and every time you talk about something else, and you're actually making some kind of political propaganda here. As far as I've seen, it's most wrong for you here that you're afraid that some social tensions won't happen while this government is in power, so you're afraid that when you come to power there'll be some social tensions and some unrest, that's the motive of this kind of exposure and this kind of circulation that we're listening to here. So, agree on what you're actually criticizing here. Are you criticising that the judicial solution of the dispute is interrupted, or are you criticising that the judicial solution of the dispute does not have to be terminated, so coordinate these attacks by the gentlemen of the radicals and the gentlemen of the Democrats. Make arrangements, and don't go out for a pay phone every time to talk about something that has nothing to do with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8508	You want a replica? But I didn't realize he mentioned you... (He addresses Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic, who seeks the word) (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: I will explain to you... Come on, explain it to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8509	Mr. Vice President, I have the right to reply because my colleague, Homan, in his presentation, spoke about the amendment that I submitted to article 11 and about the part of my presentation in favour of his argument, which does not stand, disputed this way of seeing the law - he misread. In fact, there was no question here whether the SRS had the same attitude with the Democratic Party. Of course he's gone, and of course they're opposing us as much as you are. As our goal is to get Boris Tadic out of the presidency as soon as possible, so the goal is to get Kostunica out of the prime minister's seat as soon as possible, and we will succeed, be sure of that. But here, Mr. Homan, it's about the situation that this law really dissuades workers. On one case, which you may not want to know anything about, which is happening in the city where I come from, I explained nicely what's going on. It is impossible to resolve peaceful disputes, i.e. the situation when the dispute has already taken place. And when it happens, it is impossible for the legislator to compromise that kind in the first place, according to Article 11. In particular, because of the fact that all disputes are related to non-compliance with the social programme, because of the cancellation, according to the Act on Labour, which Novakovic voted on with the Thessaloniki card, because of the fact that robbery privatisation was carried out and because of the fact that courts, as the promoter himself predicted here, do not do their job well. So, we tell the workers from this pay phone that a much better way to claim their rights, if they are forced to do so, is before the competent courts. Before that, they try to get the legal aid they obviously need, because in the absence of and legal assistance in the local self-government unit, which we have here, they go door to door looking for free advice from legal professionals, lawyers who want to give them free help because they don't have a beaten dinar. And by the time they get to court, then it's normal for Kljajevic to no longer be the President of the Trade Court. The most normal thing is that we no longer have corrupt judges, but honest and honest people, that these disputes, most effectively, end in court. The judiciary must be independent, for the benefit of workers to have these disputes, in front of judges who will be honorable and responsible people. That's the point. It has absolutely nothing to do with our amendments or our attitude towards them. As they have caused chaos during their reign, so do you now. We want it through a different concept to try to correct it. If you don't want to accept it, if the minister won't withdraw the law, if you don't understand the essence of our commitment to the workers and the unemployed, here, spring will be close, extraordinary parliamentary elections, but make sure the radical prime minister is able to protect the workers. There will be no broad arms only in the election campaign, but responsible people when concrete things need to be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8510	The amendment is subject to the People's MP Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind you that a member of the law, which is being spoken of at this time, reads: "If the proposal was submitted by one of the parties to the dispute, the Agency delivers proposals and documentation to the other side." The amendment reads: the word "agency" is replaced by the words "legal aid service". The argument we heard from most speakers, as explained, that the essence of this amendment will change the law and that the service will do it more effectively, but what's more interesting is that here in the discussions on amendments some major political thesis such as settlement, and Mr. Ristic has repeated it more times; the settlement of coalition partners to new jobs, and I don't know why it would be done in the service of legal assistance in a different way than in the agency. Therefore, the explanation absolutely does not stand. The Democratic Party's representative tells us that this problem should not be solved, i.e. those people who will be employed should not be there according to the party's criteria. I agree, and this government will try to make it so. I would remind you of the time of the rule of the previous government, which has led to perfection the model of the party state. The directors of puppet theaters became what they were because they were members of the Democratic Party. Now that we're solving a difficult problem, and we know there's a lot of unemployed people and we're in a transitional period that's what it is and we're trying to make it as painful as possible, and these laws just came from the Ministry that's dealing with this problem, a couple of excellencies. And instead of all of us trying to solve this problem together how to reduce the number of unemployed, that those who are unemployed have better social protection, that simple workers' rights are protected in the most massive way, we are talking about quite another thesis that, as I said, are treated in a completely different way in the previous period. I totally agree that we have to unmount the party state and we haven't done it until the end, but we're gonna make it. I mean this government. Professionality must be the primary criterion, and the laws are in some of their elements, I mean the republican and some of those relating to local self-government, simply giving people the opportunity to put themselves in jobs without competition. The DSS normally thinks that this institute should be returned. When we talk about local self-government, I call on Mr. Ristic if we are in Nis to influence that the directors of public enterprises are chosen by competition (to prevent the formation of a small party state or by several parties of the administrative system) so that the professional criteria are crucial in choosing the right people to solve these difficult problems. As long as the citizens of Serbia listen to us, we need to show maximum desire, will and energy to keep the thousands of workers out of work, and those in companies that are currently working very badly, to fix their situation. There was a promise of 500,000 jobs here, from some parties. Let us solve this problem from day to day, and let less and less be unemployed, and let those who work live on their work. It will be a normal state, it will be a European Serbia. This kind of debates that really have nothing to do with the amendment, we're not going to contribute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8512	You're looking for a replica, you've got an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8513	Ladies and gentlemen, here we have heard and seen a great dispersion of demagogy. The party that advocates competitions and the selection of non-partisan directors in competitions, for example, in Nis, the House of Health decree, overnight, replaced the director who had been elected to the competition and appointed a party member. I wish Mr. Goran Ilic would deny me, if that's not true. That woman was appointed director of the House of Health. This is the first example I have thought of, but I can remember a series of examples that deny Mr. Ilic that the DSS advocates that professional non-partisan people come to the responsible places. They've put their party friends everywhere, party friends, under the pressure of city organizations. I ask Mr. Goran Ilic to ask his Belgrade counterparts if they agree that the competitions are being selected by directors in Belgrade, or if they insist on individual names and places in the negotiations. Whether these conditions "below the grain" are principled or just demagogy. Regardless of such a demagogue view of conflicts with a personal example, therefore, a party that advocates principles must by personal example show that these principles really respect. This is about the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. This law in the nature of things should not be political, because any citizen, any employee or employer can be subject to compliance with this law. However, from previous discussions, it is right here that those who dispute the law represent a political coalition. That's just not true. We agreed on legal principles, on inconsistencies and on the proposal in this law. You have illogical suggestions here, you have lifeless suggestions, you have proposals that violate the legal system. Dear friends, dear colleagues, you will not go to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8514	Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8515	I'd just like to point out the failures to conduct the session, given that four or five speakers have come forward before. I am the head of the parliamentary group for these bill proposals in front of the Democratic Party, and I have responded to the replica on one and another basis. I had an advantage over the other speakers, so I would therefore ask the chairman to continue to take care of the order in which he will give his word when the MPs are announced. There is a difference in approach to the amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and submitted by the DS parliamentary group, as is the different way of criticising this law. The DS Parliamentary Group feels it is important to pass the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes, but all the time it points to irregularities that cannot be adopted in this form and that is what I hope I have managed to explain to you, and if I am not going to try to draw your attention to that once again. Mr. Minister, he also noticed that there are certain irregularities. Yesterday on the Committee, he tried to correct the law through certain legal and technical corrections in the provisions that made it practically impossible to be brought to the vote in the Republic of Parliament. These are provisions that are contrary to the provisions of the law that are also on the agenda of this assembly. We cannot pass a law in which Articles 30 and 37 are adopted. (It is the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes) that provides for a standstill, because such an institute no longer exists in the law on litigation, whose discussion in principle and details we ended the previous week. There can be no legal and technical correction of two different institutes, which is a standstill and a standstill, because they have different rights for participants in the process, as well as the different consequences for not taking certain legal actions. Whoever has a little elementary legal education or legal culture, or who has a little law enforcement, may conclude that the replacement of these institutes cannot be subject to legal and technical corrections. Of course, I would like to remind myself that, in addition to the law on litigation, this law has inconsistencies with the law on public agencies and the current Labour Act, i.e. in particular Article 153 which implies the introduction of peaceful dispute resolution when it comes to collective agreements. On the other hand, of course we're in favour of disassembling the party state. It's something that each of us individually and all of us together speak out, speak through our party, party, but also personal steps. It is absolutely certain that the demonstration of the party state cannot be done in the way the current government of the Republic of Serbia works, creating party ministries. As you know, each ministry is assigned to one of the political parties in the ruling coalition and it is entitled to an absolute right to staff, political, resort, professional, legal, etc. solutions. It's pure demagogy, then. There is no demonstration of the party state by dividing ministries into party ministries. (Chairman: Excuse me, but you're out of time.) I'm sorry, I'm done. I ask you to return to the law, to understand that the objections of the DS concerning this law are directed exclusively at its improvement, because we believe it is justified, correct and necessary to pass this law. There's no demagogue access to this law. We address you as MPs, exclusively by making legal remarks, hoping that you will adopt them, so that we can vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8516	Just one explanation. In order to know that you're picking up the line, you have to point out the basis by which you answer. Secondly, to say that your colleague from the parliamentary group, from the same party, came out of line, and it was a fundamental order, since you are an authorised representative, to miss you and to give you an advantage. It's not a mistake in my presidency, it's a mistake in your disagreement with the parliamentary group. (Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, from the post: I called before four speakers. ) Yes, but we did not know which was the basis, and the MP Bosko Ristic insisted, as mentioned, that he had the championship in line. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8517	I expected that a little longer discussion would take place when it comes to my amendment, for the simple reason that some colleagues irritate my clear argument based on examples that are obvious. I don't understand, and now I'm going out to replicate my colleague Ilic from the DSS, who was his cause to come out and talk about my amendment. In doing so, he said that speakers are being replaced and talk about everything but amendments, and he did not mention "a" from the amendment, but took advantage of the opportunity to engage locally with Bosca Ristic, in the case of my amendment, that is, this law. You can do that in Nis, the City Assembly, if you're both there and there. As for the frame, Mr. Ilic, I told you, and you probably didn't hear it or you didn't want to hear it, that you in the new government, the new one, the old one, whatever you want, didn't do anything to solve the big problems in the frame. The key problem, when it comes to the protection of rights, robbed and bereaved, is the trade court and Goran Kljajevic. In 2000, he was a member of the Electoral Commission in an extended composition on behalf of the SPO, and after the "five-octobaric coup" generously took over the DS. He's when the Democratic Party. And you know all of them, that he was thus appointed, as well as many other judges. We had such appointments here, when in the alleged opposition was the DSS, ahead of the collapse of the government of Zoran Zivkovic, to propose to us for the President of the Court of Justice in Surdulica a man who was a V.D. Director of some failed rubber company. Then what are we talking about? These were the personnel and appointments of judicial officials. As a result, the courts are impeccable, and that may have been why the legislator was forced to write it to us in an explanation, because it is a fact. Then don't talk about something that doesn't stand and challenge our clear and unequivocal argument. You'd know, if you had won power in Nis, that it was very clear and possible help from a legal service in a city. According to this now, as all these people address MPs, what about those who are on the Privatisation Committee, which we are not, from different cities, usually come to us who are from a certain city, people with that problem. The agency's director should be a colleague of the SRS' Ostova Stojanovic. He's not in the lobby, nor in the living room, nor in the bedroom can he get in from a bunch of material. The man's buried. Over 80 companies, various people, workers who come and ask him for help. He studied all of this, to detail, fighting on the Privatisation Committee, criticising the minister, but what it is worth, Ostova Stojanovic has, as a responsible politician, the intention to help them, but he cannot help them. That's what the courts have to do. This is exactly why people come to him and to the Privatisation Committee because courts don't do their jobs and workers can't exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8518	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8519	First of all, as far as depoliticization is concerned, of course the DSS is for depoliticization. With that process, it started. Unfortunately, there is not enough political will in Serbia to end the process as soon as possible, and how to talk about political will, when we did not have any basic system institutions in the previous period. We didn't have a president of the Republic. This government and this ruling majority have shown a desire to depolitise and form institutions with the very changes in electoral legislation in our country. I remind you that Vojislav Kostunica won two million votes in two election cycles, so he couldn't become President of the Republic. Therefore, gentlemen who talk about depoliticalisation or politicisation of the system in Serbia, so much. These are facts, just like the facts when we talk about the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll tell you that there's been a regulated arrangement with the Paris Club, that there's been a regulated arrangement with the London Club. The debts that occurred were neither created during the SPS nor during the DOS, these debts occurred much earlier, during Mike Spelic, Milke Planinc, when independent audit houses entered our vaults and determined that our state owed about $20 billion. What was not resolved in the previous period is now resolved. Something has been resolved since 1990 to 2000, such as the issue of debt to the Russian Federation, such as the beginning of negotiations on resolving our debt to the People's Republic of China. Also solved is one problem that was gripping RTB Bor, when the previous government signed a contract with Daimler Chrysler. Our country hasn't made an effort to fulfill any member of that contract. Apparently, some previous authorities, i.e. people in those authorities, imagined that our state could fight both with the Russian Federation and with the People's Republic of China and with multinational companies that have several times the turnover of capital than the Republic of Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro. We are talking administratively about all these debts, because neither the ruling majority nor the government are in a position to deal with any more joyful matters, but with solving debts from the previous period. Because these debts are successfully resolved, Serbia is one step away from signing the Performance Study, and I think that defining and signing the Performance Study will go much easier if this parliament does what is right and if there is much less demagogy in our performances.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8520	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have waited very patiently for this series of replicas to end, and I have advertised the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 97. - I think one of the MPs misread me; one who came out after me, not to mention his name so I wouldn't give him the right to reply, or misread or drowsy half of my discussion, and then he didn't hear what I said. Defending the amendment to article 11, which was submitted by the honourable MP Natasa Jovanovic, I mentioned Article 9 where you write that it will be managed by the agency, as well as by Article 8 and 7 where it says the agency will be formed. Only in that context did I mention that amendment. By the way, speaking of which, it explains why the amendments refuse. The explanation is the same as the reason for the amendment to Article 1 submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic. That's where you write - in the European Union, France, Germany, the United States, etc., where millions of people haven't lost their jobs in four years, where children have something to eat, there's an economy that works and there's room to form various non-profit organisations, including agencies, and it's perfectly normal that they can. The point with us is that bureaucracy is multiplied as amoebe, and from one of the clerks they become two places of office, and then they are filled, and then four and so on. Well said one of the MPs when he mentioned that puppet theatre - more and more impressions are coming to the public, (and we SRS MPs are already the first or the second day after that "your famous October and bulldozer", we see) that you are a puppet theater, the good part of the state administration is puppet dolls and move your fingers the way someone from the West moves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8522	Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8523	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was talking about the amendment. The fact that the agency is not called an agency but a legal aid service does not change the essence, as in many laws, the word "agency" has changed with the word "government" and that is not the essence. The essence of decommissioning the party state has a different approach to solving social problems. So I'm really not this pay phone, which is just an example, I used for local questions. But I think what happens to my city is mostly about Serbia. The parties should change the attitude towards the personnel to address certain problems and the criteria must exclusively be expertise. Thus, the mentioned health director was appointed by the minister, as the Health Protection Act today regulates the issue. That thing with my party has nothing to do with it. And the minister promises to change practice, even in some transitional solution and solve these problems with competition, because in a different way, the solution does not produce good results. Therefore, the party state is being demonized during a time of government in which the DSS plays a leading role and will be disarmed. That process is long. There is not enough political will, but without such access to this problem there will be no solution, because this or that before the party state may have been a little better or a little worse, but they were party. Therefore, we will abolish the party state and people will deal with policy in the congregations: local, republican and state communities, not in health homes and clinical centres and dispute resolution agencies. This should be left to professional people, to those who are often on the margin and have exceptional qualities. It'll change the atmosphere in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8524	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8525	I also take this amendment to Article 11, as an opportunity to point out to the Proposer, although there is no one to withdraw this bill, because the legislators of this law and that law that was the 1st point of the agenda are obviously "non-conversing", they are "in contention". It's not the same proposal. Article 11 of this proposal states that if the proposal was submitted by one party to the dispute, the Agency shall submit a proposal and documentation to the other party in the dispute and call on it to declare within three days whether it has accepted a peaceful solution to the dispute. As part of the 1st item of the agenda of this session, we had a draft law on litigation. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed an amendment to delete a whole chapter. It is not an important name for this chapter, but it is important that there are six or seven members who regulate the procedure of reconciliation, alignment. This is called mediation in the draft law on litigation. They are there as mediators of that lawyer or judge, whom he has appointed by acting judge in some case. This is what I'm saying because individual work dispute, so let's just be these two groups of cancellation disputes and minimum earnings, are also a judicial dispute. So, the court has the possibility, if a law on litigation is adopted, to refer to a peaceful solution to the dispute, to reach an agreement that will gain the power of the executive document at the time when they submit the report to the judge in question, and it concludes that. That's not enough for this other promoter, so he's proposing an unconstitutional law. This unconstitution is seen, above all, in Article 11, where he plans a special service, or a peace resolution agency. (Now the assistants have left, since there is obviously something wrong with the bill. ) He who has proposed these two laws does not know that there is a Labour Law. If he has any intention, once these two draft laws are adopted only then to change the Labour Act, then he made a strategic mistake. The labour law doesn't come from these two laws. The fact that this matter is a peaceful settlement of work disputes (so whether collective agreements or individual labour disputes) is also regulated by the Labour Act with some 20 or 30 provisions. I must say, the Labour Act provides for arbitration. There is even a procedure for how arbitration is formed. Maybe someone smart will remember and say, in the amendments to the Labour Act that we're preparing, we'll throw it out, because there's this law. Now I have to say, what's now in the Law on Arbitration Work, it's for two classes better regulated than this one right here. If there's a bill of litigation that you're going to vote on, then we don't need this at all. I don't know, someone's playing with the National Assembly and giving these solutions, which are practically unsustainable. There is no constitutional basis for such a law. The labour law talks about arbitration. Please, and the International Labour Organisation Convention, and even those non-binding recommendations, which you give binding importance to, too, speak of arbitration, are not talking about the agency. Here came simply one wave of blueness so that everything could be called an agency, a directorate or a council, lost in time and space. Why the agency? We just wanted to point out with this amendment that what is proposed is nebulous. The Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution, and in the Labour Act, if there is a need to quote, I will quote Article 153 in the last position, says, the composition and method of arbitration is determined by collective agreement. If it comes to disputes over a collective contract, and if it is individual disputes, then you have a provision of article 121, where it is said, employees and employers can raise issues in front of arbitration, not the agency, but arbitration. They define the arbitration themselves, and they give it some meaning. We have experience with arbitration. There is an external trade arbitration, therefore, when an international element appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8526	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Becic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 12 and 12 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8527	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, there has been a lot of talk about depoliticalising the state system. However, this law creates a new possibility for its politicisation. The way the agency's director is elected is not defined by this law, but the reason is that it will be elected by representatives of the government, representative unions and employers' representatives, (and this is not defined in the law) says that the government will influence the selection of the Agency's director. If the authority of the Director of the Agency is seen to be able to determine an arbitration or peacemaker (as referred to in Article 12) it shall speak of the authority of this intended legal solution. This means that if the parties to a dispute that is usually in life on opposite sides, perhaps in a fight, cannot agree, that is why the dispute has arisen, they must give consent to the choice of the person of the arbiter or the peacemaker. If they don't, that's what the director of this agency does. This is the imposition of a solution, this is the basis for abuse. The largest number of abuses in the judiciary takes place as follows: by filing a complaint, the number of judges with whom you have a pass-by and that is the largest number of objections from parties in the dispute, that this is how abuse is done in court. Here you have one man, arbiter, who, according to the choice of parties in the dispute, can determine the director of the agency and can determine the arbitration parties in a dispute without consulting and without any restrictions. Apparently, there is a possibility of seeking an exemption from the arbiter, but there is no possibility for the exemption of the director of a peaceful dispute resolution agency. In a court case, the party can seek the exception of the judge, the president of the court, the exemption of the president directly from the court, and the exception of the Supreme Court president, whose exemption is decided by the general session of the Supreme Court. Here, with the obligation of the parties to suspend the court dispute, if one of the parties initiates proceedings for a peaceful settlement of the dispute, you come to a grey zone where one person depends on who decides in the procedure. When the authority of the arbiter is further examined, he may decide when to conclude the debate, and on the other hand, you have 30 days to make a decision, but 30 days from the day of the debate. You see one stretching procedure where no beginnings of billing are defined. All this leaves doubt that this process will go in a correct manner and be implemented so that the parties have faith and trust in such a single dispute resolution agency. Of course, I agree with one of my predecessors who says that the International Labour Organisation foresees arbitration as extrajudicial bodies where parties should give confidence in peaceful dispute resolution, which would speed up the resolution of mutual disputes based on work and relieve judicial authorities. Therefore, the state's involvement in resolving labour disputes would be reduced. On the contrary, this is where the state directly interferes in resolving labour disputes with the goal of preserving these pre-greeting systems in social property that it doesn't know what to do. It reflects their inability and unwillingness to face problems and to solve them effectively and qualityly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8528	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8529	And Article 12 and this amendment, I'm going to use it to convince the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to withdraw this bill, because this is wrong. You see, you've prescribed a member of the 12th order of the peacemaker, or the arbitration officer. Peacemakers, these are peacemakers, we know that, and abroad has praised peacemakers and so on. The Peacekeeper is needed for collective bargaining, and the arbiter is needed for individual work dispute. In the last position, it is argued that if the parties to the dispute do not agree on a peacemaker, i.e. arbiter, it shall be designated by the Director of the Agency. Please, this is contrary to your Article 5. It's a bill of law. That's where you said, the principle of volunteering, and if there's no volunteering, if there's no party consent in the dispute over a joint representative to participate, then there's no such procedure. Can't do something consensual and peaceful when someone's forced. That doesn't make any sense. So if you wanted to apply something that has existed for two years in our legislative system, then you could take a look at the provisions of the Labour Act. I keep reminding you of the provisions of the Labour Act, because some other authority passed that law, she said it was world-renowned, the best, although the text of 1848. They lied to us here about how the International Labour Organization gave some piece of paper to support the law, which is also not true. In a collective contract, it's a new creation compared to 1848. You see, here in collective bargaining you had a situation, let's say, Article 153 of Article 2 says this way: "The issues in the application of collective agreements solve arbitration", not the agency, not the peacemaker, but the arbitration, and it is educated by the participants of the collective contract. We have three participants in a collective contract. Therefore, within 15 days of the day of the occurrence of the dispute. You have a disputed conclusion, existence and application, because you cited it as the reason why you have to seek mediation. Therefore, the conclusion, alterations and additions or application of a collective contract. It's all very controversial with you when it comes to a collective contract. Whether it exists and whether it is applied further and further. In the Labour Act, you said, what I have stated, it solves the arbitration that participants are educating within 15 days. The next thing, the arbitration decision on issues obliges participants, and obliges them only if volunteering is present and if all participants in the collective agreement agree that arbitration resolves this dispute between them. The composition and method of arbitration (now comes on the subject of this bill of yours) shall be governed by a collective agreement. Please, we have been deceived on the Legislative Committee or we have not paid enough attention. We had to say that this law does not correspond to this law, because it has completely opposite solutions. The labour law, however, is the basic law in relation to what you are unconstitutionally trying to push through as a law on peaceful work dispute resolution. Why am I saying this? If your idea of changing the Labour Act in these provisions, you should have done this first and you should have made a difference with these solutions that have been offered. You're going the other way. You can't get caught changing the Labour Act. You can't, because someone who's funding from abroad wants a labour law like this and a complete disenfranchisement of all employees. On the occasion of the next amendment, I will explain that this is impossible to apply especially when it comes to private enterprises. Let's see who's working with a private who's going to start a peaceful dispute settlement without the boss telling him before -- here's a work book. This is how you avoid applying the law. That's why we're putting up with these amendments, to draw everyone's attention. You have laws, apply them, don't pass new laws that delay solving problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8530	The amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Vladimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a National MP, Zivan Vladimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8531	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, based on article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which reads: "Article 13 is deleted". In principle, the SRS is against the establishment of a variety of state money spenders, which are agencies that are established when and when they are not needed, so the SRS is for a more logical solution to solve these services in municipalities. Training with donations is scheduled. We believe that it can be done with professional services, legal services in municipalities, so that, in our opinion, it would cost a lot cheaper. The minister's not here, but I'm a member of the Privatisation Committee, so we've had a variety of cases of major disputes between business owners and workers, and the last case I'd like to make, so I'd like to ask the minister if he's here to resolve it. It's a company from Doljevac, Agroexport-Toplica, which deals with the slaughter business. The last session of the Privatisation Committee was attended by the owner who said he would change his performance, snails. He has workers there who are professional people, butchers and who do the job. Is that what he thinks those snails are going to kill him there, and he fired more than half the workers? That would be interesting to clarify, who's going to solve it and who's going to settle it? I don't think there's a solution to the court without me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8532	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, then Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8533	Article 13 is a good reason to consider a situation, and the public should know that these situations are possible. It would be interesting if representatives of the government and representatives of the majority in the National Assembly who support such a bill came out for a pay phone and explained to Serbian citizens how they imagine to implement this law if they are in conflict a private person who is the boss, the director of a company, so let it be a business with 20 and 200 employees and one employee who has a problem with that boss, and the problem is on the line, that is, in the context of what you have given as a matter of calming down when it comes to individual dispute, which is to cancel the labour contract or payment minimum earnings. How about you cashiers from a self-service to make peace with his boss? Could he, in these conditions today in Serbia, consider launching a work dispute? He can think about going to the boss, getting a work book and going home. Anyone who claims it's different should prove it. Where can this be used? It can be used in public enterprises of republican importance: electricity, railways, PTT, NIS, state-run officials, there is already a problem, I would not recommend that it seek a peacemaker or arbiter to make peace with him with the Minister or Director of the Directorate. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because there's no such thing as rights. Since the Law on Labour was passed, there have been no individual rights of employees. Secondly, when we talk about a lack of constitutional basis for these laws, I have to tell you that individual human rights are work, working relationships and all rights arising from work. You have no right to push someone to settle the dispute peacefully, to make the state cover how we have institutions, this is what we make institutions to form a state. You don't make institutions this way, you delay solving all issues of all problems. I took an example, a minor profit dispute. We can bid to say how many hundreds of thousands of employees can initiate this dispute. If we want something on a collective contract, then the conclusion is to amend and supplement and apply a collective contract. You now state in article 13 of your bill. , see what is now said, the agency says, "The agency is delivering a proposal and documentation regarding the disputed case to the peacemaker." They haven't concluded a collective contract, which documentation to deliver, there's no documentation. The boss won't close that individual collective agreement. It's about an arbiter that's been designated for a concrete dispute. What paperwork? She's a little private. Let's protect these people who work both Saturdays and Sundays in private large businesses, engines, locomotives of our development, not to mention the names of these companies. You know, there's no vacation, there's no hot meal, they're working on Saturdays and Sundays, they're always making up some lists on some shops there, etc. Why isn't the labour inspection protecting these people? You in the Labour Act have provisions where the labour inspector is authorized to return the man temporarily to work until he has settled before the court dispute. You're putting in a coward's egg now. Social dialogue, social partners - what social partners! This one doesn't, and the boss came to take even more if he could. Privatization, you see what he's like. In the tender, the auction takes up property, the contract gives him the opportunity to sell 10% of the property, he sells 40% and pays off everything instead of six years, and he has 60% of the net profit left, neither onion eaten nor onion smelled. His only advantage is knowing someone at the Agency and having some banker give him a guarantee. In those conditions, you're talking about some kind of protection of workers' rights and peaceful dispute resolution. It is a top cynicism that can be offered to Serbian citizens at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8534	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8535	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister isn't here to hear all these criticisms. I appeal to experts, lawyers, lawyers sitting in this assembly to contribute by their stand to distance ourselves strongly from such a bill. There are objections here that we answer too often for a word. I really want to get as much and as strong as possible, the more we distance ourselves from this bill, because this law will bring chaos into the legal system. He won't be able to be applied. He opens legal uncertainty. This law does not make it clear whether material law or procedural law is being resolved. This law obliges Serbian citizens to initiate a procedure for a peaceful settlement of labour disputes, and on the other hand, Article 15 says the minister will determine how to handle the disputes peacefully. So we're going to a gray zone, into one uncertainty. I would ask each of you if any of you would sign the right to a third party to settle a dispute under the rules that will subsequently determine or subsequently determine. Would a sportsman go into a game if he didn't know the rules in advance? Is that normal? It's against the constitution of guaranteed rights to legal certainty. Citizens must exercise their rights in a predetermined procedure, which has been made public, which everyone knows. You can't drive people into some black tunnel without lighting, and you can't say, you don't know how long it is, or how you're gonna move, or how you're gonna get in the way. You don't have a guarantee to protect your rights through a professional legal entity. No security has been established by a lawyer. The lawyer and the proxies in the proceedings have not been established. It's all one gray zone. It's all unclear. That's why I want to point out to the public the perdition of adopting a law like this. And anyone who agrees to adopt such a law bears responsibility to the citizens of Serbia for the chaos that will take place, for the chaos that will take place in the courts. We allow the right of the arbitration officer to be above the judge, above the judiciary. This is the direct interference of the executive authority in the judicial authority, as the arbitration panel, i.e. the director of the agency, is elected by the Government. The government has direct interference, as the arbitration tribunal can stop its decisions, it can decide without rules previously laid down by law, it is placed outside the law and above the judiciary. That's inadmissible. I expect the Constitutional Court to respond as soon as this law is passed, to see the light of day. However, Article 13 states: "The Agency is delivering a proposal and documentation regarding the issue of the dispute to the peacemaker, i.e. the arbiter designated for a concrete dispute." So, where's he gonna deliver it? Home? Is that arbiter at the agency? Which arbiter will he deliver to? If you have local agencies to settle peaceful disputes, will there be local arbitration? Are there going to be local tranquilizers? What will be the relationship between the local agencies and the central agency? Where will the citizens of Serbia start the proceedings? Is he in his place of residence or here in Belgrade, where is the center of the Republic Agency? I don't get it. I'd like the minister to explain that to me. He obviously doesn't know the answers to these questions. He only has too much desire and a political order to push away social tensions from the government, and to subsequently get a blank mandate to be able to settle the procedure under which these disputes will be resolved. I'd like the minister to answer my specific questions. With each amendment, I will ask him about it, or I will ask him specific questions. And the citizens of Serbia will follow and know if they have found the answer to at least one of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8536	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today several colleagues from the ruling majority have turned their attention to us who are trying to settle these amendments as much as possible for the government's proposals, or have shown extreme impatience and anxiety, as seen from the benches. I really don't know what this is about, except maybe that you agreed to rush this debate to vote. You probably had to meet some of the conditions, so you don't have time, waiting for us to finish this debate, so there's not another condition. Of course, that's your problem and your thing, and we from the SRS are trying to convince you that our idea that this law on peaceful work dispute resolution should be withdrawn from the procedure, that it should be put on the agenda of the labour law, that finally employees in the country of Serbia will get a law that, as much as possible, protects their interests. Now, employees in Serbia, thanks to the Labour Act, which is in force, have no rights and no protection whatsoever. There's a lot of examples for that. The SRS parliamentary group has been swamped these days by calls from workers, faxes with various data. People expect us to help them. We, here, are trying to convince you to help them together, but it's obvious that you have no ear for it. Someone here also said that our proposal not to form another new agency means that it doesn't change the essence. Well, for God's sakes, and how it changes, because changing an organ that would possibly work on a peaceful settlement of work disputes and how important it affects the essence of the government's proposal. The amendment to Article 14 submitted by Mr Milorad Mircic is in addition to this. Article 14 states that each party in the dispute shall bear its own costs in the process, except for the costs of the peacemaker, or the arbitration officer. In light of this law, you said that the implementation of this law requires the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget of 10 million dinars. So 10 million dinars will be spent by peacemakers and arbiters. They will not make peace with anyone, nor will they succeed in doing what you are legally trying to impose on them. And my colleague Mircic's amendment is about to erase your expenses. One of the reasons why we think this job can do legal aid services is that the parties would not have additional costs. It is known that legal aid services work on a reduced legal tariff, that is, half of the legal tariff, and that is something that could possibly be tolerated. And now imagine the employee who gets fired, and you're making him double the cost of this law. First, you make him pay for the peacemaker, who knows how much. Who knows how much these costs will cost him, because all you're saying is that every party carries its own costs. Well, then of course he won't be able to make peace, so he has to sue again, so he can pay a court fee. It's a waste of time. It's a waste of money. Or, say, eighty IMP workers I started talking about yesterday, 16 months doesn't get paid. They would probably be hiring an arbiter now, if they had something to pay for, and that arbiter should bring in Slobodan Radulovic, who bought the IMP and left them to work for completely unknown reasons. People really work, every day they come to work, and Mr. Radulovic doesn't show up at that firm, doesn't pay them, their account is blocked, and now indeed, Mr. Minister, gentlemen who will vote for this bill, it would be good to explain to those people who will give them the money and how to pay for the arbitration of their problem. Maybe the arbiter would solve it, but it's not worth it, they can't pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8538	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8539	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that the minister has returned to the O.R. I'm going to ask some questions again that I just asked in his absence. I expect him to answer those questions. I'd like him to explain to me the relationship between the republican dispute resolution agency and the local agencies. Will the arbiters be elected at the local and republican level? Where will the procedure be based by applying? Is it in a bar or a republican agency? All this is related to the answer to the question and to the regulation of Article 14 as proposed - that each party in the dispute bear its own costs in the process. Does this mean that a man from Nis, a man from Jastrepec, who has not received his salary for so many years, will have to come to Belgrade to settle his dispute, or will be able to do so in Nis. Is it possible to expect workers, who are being tried for the minimumer, to spend their resources on themselves and their proxies, who are due to come to Belgrade to try to settle the dispute peacefully? We say the dispute is mandatory, because some of my colleagues from G17 say I misread the law, that it is not mandatory to initiate a procedure for the peaceful resolution of work disputes. I read in the light of this proposal for a law to define between 30 and 37 members the obligation to initiate proceedings for the peaceful settlement of disputes and to terminate the litigation process. The litigation procedure may be initiated on the basis of a personal definition, on the basis of the personal capacity to make its own request available and the party itself provides for the court's conduct and agrees to pay the costs of the proceedings. To this member, the law obliges the party to enter into the mandatory settlement procedure and to pay its costs. This law has not defined the costs of the witness proceedings which must come from outside the place of maintenance and conduct of the proceedings. It is not clear where the arbiters will be sitting, whether they will go where the parties have had their disputes or judge in their apartments, their offices, or their offices. Why? Because Article 13 is said to be the Agency to submit proposals and documentation regarding the disputed peacemaker or the arbitration officer. It is not defined where this is delivered, where the debate will be held and how calls will be delivered. The deadlines are completely cut. There is a five-day delay here, no longer than five days, and this is contrary to the general rules adopted in the positive right that deadlines cannot be delayed for less than eight days unless there is agreement between the parties. It's a rule that goes into criminal proceedings, it's a rule that applies in a misdemeanor procedure, that's a rule that goes into litigation. So this law breaks the legal system. With everything else where the minister has the right to establish the procedure after the adoption of this law, he sets out the conditions under which the parties can generalise in the procedure. What conditions should the party meet so that it can communicate with other participants in a peaceful dispute settlement? Each party, by becoming a party, has the right to correspondence with the authority that conducts the procedure and with the other party where it could present its arguments and refut the views and arguments of the other party. This law is surreal, it's anti-civilization. I call upon all normal, smart and professional people to distance themselves from this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8540	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Mita Avramov has submitted an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 16 and 16 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word of the people is the messenger of Mit Abraham.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8541	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as so far as members and this member cannot "day" anywhere in this law. The SRS advocates erasing Article 16 as a whole, since it is inappropriate. It again includes agencies that need to look after the rights and obligations of workers who have been fired or something like that, who should be responsible for some offence at their workplace. The agency is back online. The SRS is absolutely against all agencies that have been set up so far in this new government, and also in this segment, because there are various ways for the entities to find their rights from the union, from local self-government. However, all this is skipped, and it is given the right to agencies that will solve these problems in the most efficient way. As it is said here, whether individually or grouply, and even said in the law if someone individually submits a request and object to the agency, the agency will inform the other participants within three days, so that they can deliver whether or not they want to represent them. Thus, in the long run, it becomes difficult for anyone to know how long it takes to resolve a dispute or case that can be resolved with a quality conversation with representatives of the unions who are in the company, who have the role of a peacekeeping mission and who should represent the excessive interests of workers, and not just to deal with the winter, heating, etc. So, the agency here has broad powers. No one can complain against the agency. An appeal can be filed, but the agency can dismiss the appeal as unfounded, etc. For this reason, the SRS considers that this Article 16 and the title above Article 16 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8542	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8543	Article 16 has the title - Peacekeeper's participation in collective bargaining. To begin by saying that we once had a law on collective agreements that regulated this situation, too unsuccessfully, but as a subject of dispute and the reason why we should include a peacemaker appointed by the agency is what is in Article 2(1). So, the object of the dispute is to conclude, change, supplement or apply a collective contract. Realising the right to union organization and strike. The exercise of the right to union organisation is a constitutionally guaranteed right and there is no possibility of negotiating or negotiating anything. The right to strike is regulated by another regulation and is also a constitutional category, it is guaranteed. You're the one who put it in article 16. - "participators in the conclusion of a collective contract." We have three levels of collective bargaining. At each level, there are three sides, or later two sides that participate in the conclusion of a collective agreement, and now a peacemaker should appear to force these three parties to conclude a collective agreement, and they do not want to conclude a collective agreement. So the collective contract doesn't exist. They have a dispute over some change, some of the provisions of a collective contract, and should include a peacemaker. The dispute is to apply the provisions of a collective contract. Let's see what he can do by your regulations if he's got a collective contract. If we come from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the member of the 35th mentions the words "collective contract" and says that employees can stop working against their will under conditions and in a manner established by law and collective agreement. It's the first time a collective contract is mentioned. For the second time in Article 38, where the right to a limited working time, on a daily and Sunday vacation, paid vacation and leave under the law, or collective contract. The holder of the Constitution has defined the collective contract as practically an additional instrument that can regulate the rights that the law knows or allow for a higher level of rights than those prescribed by law. However, you are in Article 131. The labour law, which you're probably changing, and perhaps you won't, but these others on dispute resolution certainly, says "the rights, obligations and responsibilities of work relations are being arranged". It's given broadly. "The process of closing a collective contract, mutual relations between the participants of the collective agreement and other issues of importance for the employee and employer. The collective contract shall be concluded in writing." That's the only way it exists. Confused theme, missed everything. In the Labour Act in Article 153, you are talking about arbitration, and here you are talking about the peacemaker appointed by the agency. This only confirms that the fundamental thesis that solid institutions are built in this way will not apply the law, institutions in the function of avoiding laws. I have to take this opportunity, and I'm going to talk about it later, this government doesn't know what's in the collective agreement. Once again, what's most important for this general collective contract is the price of work. It's supposed to be an anchor of economic policy. We'll have a memorandum on economic policy, we'll have a budget. The government must come out with its economic programme, it must have a consistent wage and profit policy, but not only in terms of height, but also effective payouts and labour-based earnings. You avoid all that is the government's obligation, through such institutions, through peacemakers, arbitrationists, and other ways. You don't want to use labour inspection, you don't want to use courts, you don't want the government to fulfil its obligations, and its most fundamental obligation is to enforce the law. Since you won't do it all, then you're offering us these things – there's an institution, but it's not solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8544	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Mr Krasic's exhaustive presentation, there's really very little to say. However, in Article 16, you say: "Participators in the conclusion of a collective agreement (hereinafter referred to as "participators") can submit a proposal to the Agency for the Participation of Peacekeepers in collective bargaining". Why do you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, doubt that in signing a collective contract, participants, signatories of a collective agreement will be slow and then need a peacemaker. Otherwise, I came out to say that this amendment to Mr. Mita Avramov's MP should be accepted, for the simple reason that he, as president of the Shid municipality, knows very well what his problems are on the ground, and this is proof that you have lost contact with the base, that there is no relationship between you at the top of the government and the citizens of Serbia, the people in the local self-government. You seem to be getting into the cities a little bit. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8546	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Article 17, in my opinion, should be deleted. That's what I'm asking, because Article 17 is in collegiate with Article 1. The draft law, as well as the complete draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes in cohesion and with the Labour Act and with the law on litigation, which are in circulation. Article 17 should be deleted because it is in collegiate with Article 1. The bill, within the meaning of that proposal for a solution offered by the SRS in this area and which it wants to amend to the amendments. That is why we have submitted such a large number of amendments, because we believe that the text of this proposal is extremely bad. We know that you will not accept this because it comes from the SRS, but we are trying for the sake of the citizens of Serbia to point out with as many amendments as possible what is wrong with this text. It's simply our opinion, and that's what most of my colleagues here told you, that this job that you've predicted for people who are both a peacemaker and an arbiter, they should be doing legal aid services in municipalities, because they're already listed for such a thing, they need much less preparation to start doing that job, the lower costs of setting up these new agencies. So it's about once again in a series of draft laws and laws, the inflation of the rules that the Serbian government offers to this assembly, and what will most people go through, and how it tries to transfer its responsibility to those agencies that form almost every bill. Responsibility is increasing, as the economic and social situation in Serbia is also getting worse. So I suggest that if you have a little reason, you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8548	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, so Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8549	I will try to convince the MPs that this amendment should be accepted, because I will begin the presentation to make it seem in practice if Article 17. It's a bill of law. In this article, it is written that a peacemaker, a peacemaker in the process of collective bargaining, and he is not a party to collective bargaining, says "he is present with negotiations". As he attends the negotiations, Bosko Ristic has no need to worry, because this means that the procedure will not be through the video link, nor with protected witnesses, nor with a changed voice or character. So the peacemaker must be present for "n." The place and all three sides that have not agreed on a collective contract must be present. Furthermore, he points out to participants the proposals that do not comply with the law and other regulations. Now there's going to be a single collective contract problem for a large company, where employees have to work on Saturdays. For example, the union is launching a procedure to conclude a collective contract, an employer – the boss insists that all workers must work on Saturdays, go 42 hours, make it 70 hours a week and now the peacemaker should warn them. Look, you put socialist self-management and bargaining in some area where the law is. There's no guessing here. How can someone make peace with workers who don't want to work on Saturdays, because they're breaking through a trust fund, and the boss isn't paying them off, and to make peace with the boss, who doesn't want to work eight hours a day, but, if he can, one, 23 hours a day?- I'm sorry. He'd be unhappy again! How can this peacemaker intercede between them now, make them agree whether the law will apply a kilo, two or a half kilo. Of course, you'll justify it by volunteering. It is voluntary, but it will be mandatory when those who have to raise their voice because of some injustices and injustices come to your door, and you tell them – please, it is a complex issue, since we are catching a link to Europe, you as social partners create a social dialogue, the state will assist you in this social debate and you agree on it, sit down and finish the job. Third, he says, "provides professional and other assistance to participants". I don't know how it's possible for someone who's in charge of arbitration to be a professional service to both sides. That's impossible. Or, if it's tendently staged, given that the director is setting it up, in case they can't put the peacemaker together, then the party's going to finish the job in advance. Despite the great effort to rewrite and make something, despite the great effort to hold a debate here and bring this, be sure, after this discussion and this debate, the biggest mistake will be made by those trade unions, those employees and those individuals who engage in this field trip called peacemakers, peacemakers, arbiters, agencies, directors, budgets, social dialogue, social negotiations. Make up another word that means nothing to us. We have this problem that you're talking about something like it exists, and it's not there. Yesterday someone said, "How do you figure out how to split one orange?" They cut it in half, and the sister later said, "I was interested in the crust and this other one says I'm into juice." The problem is, you're doing something and there's no orange.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8550	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8551	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when someone has no other business, they play, play, joke, or buy classes on last year's stairway. That's with the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, if you compare Article 17's provisions to Article 18's proposal, you'll see that this is nonsense. What's this gonna look like, I don't know? No one will be able to apply this in practice. The important thing is that we're going to have something written, and if it's going to come back to life in practice, this time it's of no interest to the promoter. National MP Zoran Krasic pointed to certain shortcomings and problems, which will take place in the process of applying this regulation and in the case of a general or collective contract. The Peacekeeper attends discussions and negotiations. It is further said that it provides professional assistance to participants in resolving the dispute. Who checked the peacekeeper's expertise? Please, the Peacekeeper here takes over the court's role and function. He's not even licensed, unlike some others as insignificant institutions, in which a license is sought, and there's no license here. Secondly, it is said to be professional, but it is not said, if he has this role that the proposer in the bill gives him, that he conducts the procedure - that he participates in the procedure as a party, that he gives expert opinions, points out, provides professional assistance. I understand that the promoter predicted in this proposal that this person must be a graduate lawyer, with at least 10 years of working experience and that he has passed a judicial and legal exam. It could, in a way, be accepted. However, if you set up someone who graduated only as a lawyer, has no expertise, has no experience in the economy or in the administration - what do you do? It's an untested expert opinion, an untested waist. You will see, when you come to the provisions of Article 18, which is the next amendment, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to answer, I would draw attention to just a few moments when this member is concerned. It is said - parties in the dispute are obliged to approach a peaceful settlement of the collective dispute, in accordance with the law. I'm asking you, where's the sanctions if they don't come in? When it comes to public interest, the general public interest, and I understand that the general public interest is foreseen in other laws, but I don't understand that the general public interest is mentioned here without sanctions. If he who does not comply and does not respond does not respond, he is determined in advance, and that obligation is not sanctioned unless someone fulfils it. That is why I believe that this amendment is in place and that it should be accepted, because the Serbian Radical Party is right when it believes that the unnecessarily formed of these large corporations, by the name of the agency, which the taxpayers are very much costing, as well as the citizens of Serbia. Get your hands off the agencies. We're going to have a lot more agents than Stalin had, than anyone in the former Soviet Union, or the CIA, that we're going to have in bureaucratic agencies, that should be financed from the pockets of our citizens, our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8552	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Antić has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above Articles 18 and 18 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment reads that Article 18 of this law is deleted. I find it quite inappropriate that this member who treats the right of employees to strike is in general in this bill, because it significantly limits the right of employees to strike. It represents one cowardly egg in this law and not only to ignore in one bold way the existing Strike Act, but also powers given to this member, powers which prevent employees from taking a strike, too wide. The reason is that the lives and health of humans are at risk and damages greater proportions and acts are being listed. You will see how numerous these activities are and that in fact every other or third employee in Serbia is putting himself in a position to lose his right to strike. So, electricity, water, transport, radio-television, PTT services, municipal activities, production of basic food products, health and veterinary protection, education, social care about children and social protection, the activity of particular importance for defence and security and jobs necessary for the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. Only in health care does about 120,000 employees, as much as they do in these other activities. Probably close to a million people will lose their right to strike. This is a very serious member who significantly reduces employees' rights. If the Labour Act has already reduced the rights of employees to a minimum, I believe that this goes further into their rights and that it is necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8554	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, and then Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8555	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and member 18 are contrary to Article 5 of this law. Namely, Article 5 provides for a voluntary peaceful settlement of work disputes, and you impose a commitment on Article 18 to settle work disputes peacefully. Now we from the SRS, when we read the Government's proposals, then besides what we read in the ranks, we read between the lines. This article 18, I would say, is the key to this law, because you're actually forbidding Article 18, or you're trying to prevent strikes, you're saying, "Activities in terms of attitude one." and attitude 1. speaks of the obligation, i.e. that "party in dispute is obliged to approach the peaceful resolution of the collective dispute". And then you say, "Activities within the meaning of Article 1 are actions carried out by employers in the field of electricity, water industry, transport, radio-television whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province or units of local self-government, PTT services, communal activities, production of basic food products, health and veterinary protection, education, social care for children and social protection." What does this really mean? Why is this provision of the bill dangerous? Therefore, dear colleagues, which is obvious that what has been said for months, that this will happen, and that is the sale of Elektroprivreda, PTT and Belgrade Voda, and of course, employees have to settle their collective disputes peacefully. The agency will send them an arbiter, he will neatly arbitration, long enough until these procedures are completed which are obvious and that is what should certainly be prevented, by submitting the amendment to Article 18 of this Act. The government's explanation for which this amendment is rejected is indeed inconclusive. The government says that, given that Mr Zoran Antic, in the light of his amendment, has said that this article is intended for a peaceful settlement of disputes in certain actions, and it has consequences for preventing the strike of employees in those activities and which is contrary to the SRS's views. The government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by introducing mandatory settlement in collective labour disputes in activities of general interest, there is no consequence of preventing the strike of employees in these activities. The rest of the story is also unargumented. So, the government did not convince us by this argument that this law does not really cover this danger; that this law and this article 18 does not cover the possibility that Vuk Hamovic, Lazarevic and the other brothers will not finish the work they started in Elektrodistribution; that this article does not hide what is being said in Belgrade yesterday that the great Belgrade tycoon Nenad Bogdanovic will sell "Belgrade Vodavod"; that what is read in the paper these days, and it is related to the work of PTT, there is also the production of food products without talking about the rest. This is where the C Market, the Central Product, the Book of Milos, hides everything that's controversial, everything that's going to result in more, about as many unemployed as there are so far. It's big giants, big firms and how it's started, that is, how the criminal privatisation of all these companies continues, and those companies that are being prepared, Serbia is expecting about hundreds to millions more unemployed. Then the question is, what is this government doing, what is its ultimate goal? Obviously, not what they promised citizens in the election campaign. The citizens will know this time and that the penalties in the next election, which I am fully convinced, will be very soon. Whether you pass this law or not, you will not stop the strikes, you cannot stop the citizens from blocking the roads, coming before the government, telling you their problems. Since your peaceful resolution - there is nothing, because this 18th member who is trying as a coward's egg to plant, feel free to bind, will not prevent strikes of disgruntled workers in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8556	The word has a folk MP, Bosko Ristic, and then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8557	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, right now when we are discussing Article 18, we come to the heart of our discussion. I have been insisting for two days that this bill has full political motivation. So to prevent strikes in those areas where the current government has done nothing. So, where health care, social care about children, education, traffic, electricity, where there were extremely high expectations after the December elections, when the prime minister in his exhibition promised to do something with these areas; that reforms would continue, that profits would be adequate in the participation of workers in these areas and in the creation of a social product, or in the mutual interest of general or particular social interest where these employees make their participation. The government was faced with, above all, a reduction in budgets, a reduction in the realization of promises made during the constitution of the Republic government. Inflation was realized, and the results there were, were to follow promises when the government was formed, and more and more dissatisfied were raising their voice against such a government policy. Given that the government has felt great social pressure and tension, it wants to remove in this way the commitment to resolve political and economic tensions from itself and to transfer it to some of its arbitres that should represent a bureaucratised part of the government, where the government will have direct interference in resolving disputes from collective labour contracts, but that its responsibility remains. The government wants to influence relations, but does not want to take responsibility for resolving these relations. That is why it is clear that this provision of Article 18 encroachs on the right to strike, above all, in areas where the founders of the Republic, or units of local self-government, are. Article 18 itself is unclear, so it mentions some of the actions that can also be privately owned. So the area of health and veterinary can be privately owned, because there are also private clinics, private veterinary institutes, there are private universities. Is it possible to strike at private universities or universities without implementing the procedure prescribed in Article 18? So this article 18 is opposed to European and democratic achievements, restricting the rights to strike established by the Constitution and the law. It is not possible to impose on anyone solutions which are referred to as voluntary, and in essence are imperial norms where the obligation to comply with a procedure which is not yet prescribed and under the procedure which, under Article 15 of this proposal, the minister responsible for the work is to be prescribed. So I'm asking the Minister of Labour who is here, which is why we don't have that procedure to regulate and resolve these disputes, because this procedure we don't know about, it's a "dark fairy" where we don't know what's good to take, and what's good to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8558	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as we move to the next member of the law and now because of the dispute of action of general interest that you have defined in article 18, you see that things are getting more and more complicated. Therefore, Radeta’s colleague pointed out that this may be a key member of this law that is completely inapplicable and opposed to the Constitution that this member is referring to. He's opposed to the Legislative Procedure and it would be best (we will appeal to the end of this debate, it will probably last until the end of today) to withdraw the law. If this is the definition of Article 18, and if you've listed what the general interests are and it is said that they are, then you've had to ask yourself, Mr. Minister, how will you prevent the possibility of prejudge by such a legal provision the possibility of employees in the works of general interest to use their right to strike? You've given this somehow camouflicated, or government, probably you as a proposing, in an explanation for not accepting this amendment, but you won't be able to convince me or any of the other colleagues who are opposed to the law, let alone those who are employed in this action, to convince the correctness of such an explanation, or to prejudge the way they exercise their right. And fellow lawyers, experts from the ranks of the SRS who appeared here on several occasions, believe that any sanctions should be imposed. On the other hand, no one is in a situation where, if they think normally, they go on strike without wanting to exercise their minimum rights. The waves of strikes do not move when it comes to educational workers employed in electricity, public enterprises and clean health care. They're looking for their elemental rights, and you're forcing them to go to a peaceful solution to the work dispute. If that's impossible, they have to go before the court and then we'll have a new "Yugomedia" problems are numerous. Indeed, the way you behave like this is, above all, for these key problems concerning those who are looking for a job, for those who have been employed by failed companies, in public enterprises, to deal with this law and that it has been determined for the application of January 1st in fact to gain time. Instead of starting to solve problems in a different way, to create an opportunity to start production in the country, to create new jobs, to fill the budget much more efficiently. Well, then even budget users wouldn't have a problem if, with such an enormous rise in prices, utility and all other services and food products, that follows how much profit growth. No, that's not the case! Every day in society, there is an increasing distribution. People live in misery, in poverty, and now in Article 18, through which you have defined what these activities are of general interest, you are prejudicing the way in which they are entitled and preventing them from strike until they meet their demands for torada. Otherwise, the law is such that it will not be able at all, be assured, to survive in legal traffic since the day you intended it to be applied, as of 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8560	Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srjo Komazec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8561	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, by proposing that Article 19 of the Law on Peace Disputes be deleted in full. The proposed Article 19 reads: "In the acts referred to in Article 18 of this Act, the party in the dispute is obliged to submit a proposal together, within three days of the date of the beginning of the dispute. If the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal, they shall inform the Agency accordingly. If the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal, the Director of the Agency shall, under its official duty, initiate the procedure of calming down and determine the peacemaker from the directory." The proposal foresees that the parties are obliged to notify the Agency in the resolution. The SRS believes that it is not necessary for agencies, that in practice they have proved inefficient and expensive, that the most frequent income generated by their own resources is very small, and that additional funding from the budget is necessary to provide for them - which is to drag their hands into the citizens' pocket. That is why I believe that this article should be deleted - that my amendment is good and acceptable, so I hope that in the day set for voting this amendment will be accepted by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8562	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8563	Ladies and gentlemen, the minister is gone again and I am really wondering yesterday and today whether Mr Lalovic is here in office as minister or as MP. There he was when he was supposed to do the quorum, and it's nice that he's sitting here all day today, but it really should be a little bit of communication with the MPs. It's amazing that he hears as many objections as we make through these amendments without him having anything to say. When it comes to a particular article on the 19th, it is a miracle how many illogicalities in one place in these three positions of this member. First, he says, "In the actions of Article 18 of this law, the party in the dispute is obliged to submit a proposal together, within three days of the day of the beginning of the dispute." What happens now if they don't? The minister here spoke, in principle, of the law, that the aim of this law is to speed up procedures from work disputes. On the contrary, this will slow down significantly. The application of this article in 19th will significantly slow down the resolution of these work disputes. "If the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal, they are obliged to inform the Agency." First, how if you adopt this member, how do you think you really commit the parties to the dispute to submit a joint proposal? If they could agree, they wouldn't be party to the dispute. They can't agree on anything, and they can't agree on a joint proposal. Then the following illogicality: "If the parties to the dispute do not submit a proposal, they are obliged to inform the Agency." What if they don't notify the agency? Then what's going on? Then you say again in the third position, "If the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal, the Director of the Agency shall, by official duty, initiate the procedure of calming down and determine the peacemaker from the directory." This is the most amazing. If he's not informed by the parties in the dispute, how will the director of that agency find out there's a dispute? Will he walk in Serbia, watch where he is striked, where he tries to strike, will he simply be on the basis of what he reads in the paper, and in the paper there can be much abuse and untrue information?- I'm sorry. It is truly amazing how you think that article 19 is applied in practice to the case and that this law is passed. What happens next? In addition to our claim that this law and this member are slowing down the peace settlement procedure, let's say, an example of the fashion industry "July 7th" from Kurzumlia. The problem has been current for eight or nine months. He's been on the Privatisation Committee multiple times. There's been a need to break the contract with someone who under suspicious circumstances bought that fashion industry. The new owner did not show up for six months in front of the workers, who have been on strike for days and who have been prevented from working because they are not getting a job. How can they perform with him together when they can't literally, physically, find, talk to him about this problem, let alone come before some peacemaker or arbiter, talk together. Since, thanks to the activities of the Privatisation Committee, it has come to the conclusion that a contract with him will be terminated, (perhaps so will) these workers will return to work. But what's going to happen now with a new procedure that has to exist, and it's about the fact that these people haven't been getting paid for all this time. So they have to settle again, and again, if they fail to reconcile, they have to go into another work dispute, and that's one procedure that goes on forever. The point is, a good labour law, and then all of these controversial situations, which should be solved by this quasi-law of yours, are in advance. Look, I guess we've convinced you by now, it doesn't mean anything and you don't need to bring it. Let's do more serious things.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8564	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8565	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is obvious that the Secretariat for the legislation that works with the Government of the Republic of Serbia is actually not doing its job. It is obvious that it allows the congregation procedure to enter bill proposals that are contradictory to one another. To enter into the assembly procedure laws which are anti-constitutional and which violate the basic principles of democratic principles reached in the countries of the European Union, which we too seek. One rule of Roman law is that no one can be a judge in their own affairs, and that's exactly what's happening here. The main disputes that take place between public, municipal employees, in activities of general interest or of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, are precisely disputes between workers and the state. And here you have a situation to force the state and the workers to agree on a peacemaker. If they don't determine the peacemaker by agreement, then the peacemaker will be appointed by the director of the agency, who was again appointed by the Government, i.e. State. So, whatever you turn around, it's always "kadiya sues you -- cadiya sues you." It's impossible in its own affairs that the state determines an arbiter for itself. This is how all European achievements, democratic achievements and all the conventions that our country has ratified are trampled. So we verbally advocate standards, to join the European Union, and here we define arbitres by making them a bureaucratic structure that represents an extended arm of the government. That's inadmissible. I agree that this article of the bill should be deleted, but above all, I advocate that the minister withdraws this bill, because it is anti-civilization and brings chaos into our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8566	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8567	Article 19 best shows that the legislator believes that we do not need the state. It may seem a little rough, but when you hear the facts that confirm this initial claim, you will understand. You see, in article 19, it is said that, in the works of Article 18. - and this is about 50% of all the work and services that are happening in the country, I would just like to list: electricity, water, transport, radio-television, the founder of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province or local self-government unit, PTT services, municipal activities, production of basic food products, health and veterinary protection, education, social welfare and social protection. This set of actions was drawn on the basis of some analogy that was present in the Strike Act. These are activities of particular interest, where the strike is also possible under the appropriate conditions, to ensure a minimum of the process of work and the performance of these activities, because these activities are an irreplaceable condition of life and work for almost all citizens. Now, you see, if this collective labour dispute arises, let's go back to what is meant by collective labour dispute, that's what Article 2 paragraph 1. This is a dispute over the conclusion of amendments and additions or the application of a collective agreement, the exercise of the right to union organisation, means only the right to union organisation, can be disputed and then a peacemaker or the right to strike is needed. Obviously, when they wrote a article in 19, they thought they were on strike. It's quite obvious - they meant strike. Now, you see, if this controversial situation arises, then the government-led government of Vojislav Kostunica has found a good formula. The solution to the dispute by a peaceful path goes through the peacekeeper. So the state doesn't have any relation to these actions, it fences itself, so it says, in these activities, they're all obliged to submit a proposal together. That would mean, roughly, that if we took the field of education: the minister of education and the union enlighten a joint proposal. So someone needs to make peace with their employees. Shall we take another area? The electricity industry, meaning the dispute between the management of electricity and the employees of the electricity industry, over the strike should be resolved through the peacemakers, but both sides must submit a joint proposal. The question is, did it remain voluntary, I remind you of the principle set out in Article 5. - It's the principle of volunteering, something can only go if the sides are consensual, but here it says - the sea, the duty, it's binding. Then he says, within three days of the day of the dispute. When did it start slow? If there's no collective agreement concluded- when did the dispute take place? Furthermore, in the second position -- if the parties to the dispute fail to submit a proposal, they are required to inform the agency. They can't agree on elemental matters and now they need to agree on how to notify the agency! If that's not done, if the director of the agency reads the paper and hears there's been some kind of dispute somewhere, then he'll, on official duty, activate the resolution, voluntarily settle the dispute. Officially, voluntary dispute resolution, because that's what happens when you read what they wrote. You know, it's better to withdraw this bill than to keep the minister taking pictures. He takes pictures all the time. He likes to take pictures, likes TV shows. You pull this and avoid social dialogue, social partners and these flossules that mean nothing. Focus on what is the Prime Minister's primary task, which is that you can ensure law enforcement. To ensure respect for the law. You can't have the law for a kilo, the law for two kilos! You can't apply regulations like that and you can't invent some new institutions as the foundation of a new state. It's not the foundation of the agency, remember!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8568	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Article 21(1) states: "The Peacekeeper is obliged to schedule a hearing within three days of the date of receipt of the proposal and documentation on the matter of the dispute and informs the parties in the dispute." My amendment states that "the peacemaker is obliged" to replace the words "the legal aid service is due". It means that the legal assistance service is required to schedule a hearing within three days of the date of receipt of the proposal and documentation on the case of the dispute and informs the parties in the dispute. This amendment arises from the amendment to Article 7. It's a bill of law. Let's go back a little bit. In local self-government, there are local communities, and in local communities there are peace councils. The peace council numbers three members and their task is to settle some disputes peacefully before eventually going to the municipal court, the district court, etc. It's not so much that we don't have a peacemaker, arbiter, and we don't have an agency. "The peacemaker in the sense of this law is considered a person who helps parties in a collective dispute with the aim of concluding a dispute settlement agreement." It is then said: "in the process of peaceful settlement of the work dispute the parties take part in the dispute and the peacemaker, or the arbitrationist in accordance with this law." We know well that the peacemaker and the arbiter are chosen for four years. Immediately thereafter comes the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, and that is the Article 7 that I have explained in my amendment. "The Republic Agency for the Peace of Work Dispute Resolution is educated as a special organisation (hereinafter referred to as: Agency"). We don't have any ministries where we don't have an agency. We are talking about rebalancing the budget, reducing the costs, but we continue to increase budget costs by creating new agencies. The Agency must have, or manage the Agency's work. The director is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which means additional funds will go from the republic's budget. "If the parties to the dispute do not agree on a peacemaker, that is to say, the arbitration panel determines him directly." I think gentlemen that we've had enough of this people's more of these agencies and we've had enough of those budget funds to go back to some director, peacemaker, arbiter, and we know we have legal services in municipalities, we have the Ministry of Justice, and therefore, I see nothing more than a reason for this to be an agency. I think that this amendment should be considered and it would be good for you to accept all amendments to the SRS and, in the end, withdraw this draft law on working dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8570	The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is incomprehensible that Mr. Slobodan Lalovic proposes this law, and in most of the debate does not respond at all to our amendments or, as has been the case for half an hour, is not there. How, then, the workers, who expect the social dialogue the minister is offering, will at all think they will accomplish it when the minister does not cooperate with the MPs. Not once did Mr. Lalovic come out to tell us it was for that reason. We got the government's explanation, but he's like a mummy sitting here, not showing up at all. It's the only minister who doesn't say anything!- I'm sorry. It may wait ten to six tonight, but it'll be too late, because it was supposed to react early and talk to us about the submitted proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is absolutely impossible to carry out the procedure in Article 21. It was also meant to be deleted by article 20 before, and I claim this for the reason that, according to Article 19, fellow Serbian radicals have spoken of it. "if no consensual peacemaker is appointed by the Agency." Well, then, if that happens, the peacemaker per article 21 will proceed in the process of calming down. It is said in point 2 that the parties to the dispute are obliged to designate their representative on the committee and inform the peacemaker no later than the day of the scheduled debate. That's what they want. If the parties to the dispute do not designate their representative within the time limit laid down in Article 2, the settlement procedure shall be conducted by the peacemaker by direct contact with the parties to the dispute. What if one side of the dispute is unavailable? A colleague of Radeta just cited the example of the company "July 7th" from Kurzumlia. Who knows how many more examples there are. What if it's a month, two, three, that one doesn't show up, there's no one to contact him? You're coming into one contradictory situation, and on the other hand, and that's proof that you're disabling workers and that it's impossible, because the law is without sanctions, and if the peacemaker doesn't find the other side, no one will sanction him. On the other hand, when we tell you that the only time under the Law on Prosecutive Procedure is to exercise the rights of workers and remind you that by talking about this bill a few days ago through amendments, we tried to improve it - to speed up the process, I will remind you that in the Law on Prosecution we have provided that one, another time, we call on the witness to come to the hearing and if he does not come, the third time he comes in and closes for a month. What are you going to do and how are you going to sanction the peacekeeper if he is unable to implement the reconciliation procedure? If you have provided for by the Law of Prosecution to close a witness for a month and there you have even said that you will hold him for up to 30 days until he agrees to testify, and what will you do with such a peacemaker who will be appointed by the agency, who is unable to contact both sides. There's no sanction for him. You have a very great experience with these procedures and processes of calming down, but you're not, I mean, you political actors from that former and current DOS, you've never been able to make up on your own. He always had to come to Belgrade to calm you down and tell you what to do. Now, make sure that Solana comes under this law and participates in these work disputes and that this is how you help the workers, because this is how you envisioned this process of calming "there is no help for the workers".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8572	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is very well written, as easy reading for the afternoon. His only fault is that he's inapplicable. Only you won't be able to apply it anywhere, because there's no sanctions. What's gonna happen? "The peacemaker is obliged to schedule a hearing within three days of the day of receipt of the proposal and the documentation on the case of the dispute and informs the parties in the dispute." What happens if the peacemaker does nothing in those three days, and for the next three days, he does nothing thirty times three days'? Who will punish him, and how will he punish him? "The parties to the dispute are obliged to designate their representative on the Committee and inform the Peacekeeper no later than the debate is scheduled." What happens if the parties don't notify the Peacekeeper? "If the parties to the dispute do not determine their representative within the time limit laid down in Article 2, the settlement procedure shall be conducted by the peacemaker by direct contact with the parties to the dispute." What happens if the peacemaker can't do this? The SRS proposal was that the services of legal assistance in local self-governments do this job, and the legal aid service has its own boss, for its work is in line with the Public Service Labour Act, and for its unhappiness can be sanctioned. That's the only way you can get someone who's unconscious to do their job. This way, the peacemaker will receive a considerable salary far greater than that of the MPs who caused this much dust to rise. I would suggest that the minister stop writing the laws and start writing love novels, he'll certainly make better progress there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8574	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8575	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs are nearing the end of the afternoon session, and I would just like to conclude that during the entire afternoon, DS MPs have been cooperative, seeming quorum, taking part in the work of objections, explaining the positive and negative sides of the draft law on peaceful dispute resolution. Yesterday's finding that opposition MPs are not cooperative and that the work of the Assembly is mined obviously does not stand. For more than three hours, as far as I could, and surely my record is correct, to conclude, MPs of the position, the ruling parties did not have the majority to hold the session. I think it would be correct for all MPs, as well as the people who are watching this assembly, to understand that DS MPs will never minimate the work of the Assembly, they will never be those who obstruct the work of the Assembly and will always participate in discussions on the law, so we will not even agree to attacks that we do not want the Assembly to continue its work within the prescribed deadline, so I ask that this fact be determined, as well as that the fact that, if I were to ask, and I will not ask, that at this point, the quorum is checked, absolutely certain that the quorum would not exist. In advance, I say that DS MPs will not vote this time to extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours, as foreseen in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8576	If there's something we want to figure out, as far as I can see from here, that DS contribution to this quorum is four MPs, of 34. That's the contribution. Only if we want the truth, then it has to be true to the end. Of course, MPs decide whether to extend the work or not. As far as I'm concerned, you saw yesterday that I didn't want to take over the presidency in conditions that were irregular. I have no intention of participating when an irregular atmosphere is created for the extension of the session. But it is a personal position and the personal status of every MP and every member of parliament, to decide whether to support an extension of the work or not, and I pray that no one buys points on it by voting or not voting for an extension of the work. Whoever votes and has a quorum will work, whoever doesn't vote, doesn't want to participate, won't work till noon, let alone after 18 hours. It's an individual thing, and I'm asking you to behave like that on these matters. I'm moving on to the agenda. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8577	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, there is no minister here again. Of course, it is not necessary for quorum, but it is necessary to hear objections very professionally from this pay phone addressed to the draft law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes. That this law is false, that he can't, is also talking about this provision of article 21, which we're now having a discussion about. It says here that the Peacekeeper is required to schedule a hearing within three days of the day of receipt of the proposal and documentation. He is required to schedule a hearing, but here it is not determined within what time limit he is required to hold the first hearing. So he can schedule within three days and say that the debate will take place in 25 days. The law is unclear, no strict legal deadlines are laid down to be governed by the procedure. The parties to the dispute are said to be obliged to designate their representative on the committee. If anyone is obliged, then for the failure of that duty and those obligations must follow the sanctions. What's the penalty here? The last position states that if the parties do not designate their representative on the Peace Committee, then the peacemaker will, in particular, copy and communicate with one party. What kind of sanctions is that? It's a full volunteerism. So, the peacemaker can out of the public and beyond the prescribed procedure communicate with one or the other party and thus form a position. This provision of Article 2, where the parties are obliged to designate their representative on the Peace Committee no later than the day of the scheduled debate, speaks of a complete absence of feelings about the reality of the legislator of this law. Is it possible for the Peace Committee to be established on the very day of the debate? How will these board members be familiar with documentation that can often be very extensive? How will he decide? If the Peace Committee is expected to have expertise, competence, impartiality, how will you ensure all these conditions, if the parties are able to determine their members on the day of the debate. Such ambiguity, such a proposal makes the law entirely unsuitable for its application. This law will only give the party damage and no benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8578	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8579	Dear Members of the People, what is wanted by the proposal of this law, is specifically an article. On 18 and 19, it shall attempt to do so by prescribing the procedure from Articles 21 to 29. The essence of these members, as well as Article 21, is that this is not a prescribed procedure and that, in fact, Article 15 has given the Minister the jurisdiction to determine how the parties will communicate in this procedure, so-called. Stand still. If these independent and impartial experts, appointed by the director of the agency, who, normally, was proposed by the Minister for Labour in the Government, and the Government certainly accepts it, such peacemakers, who are experts in working disputes, with high professional training and at least five years of working experience in these disputes, are persons who, through the Director, define that they resolve so-called "the Minister". collective disputes. The essence of Article 18 is that collective disputes for half of Serbia's workers will be disputes, i.e. solutions imposed by the peacemakers, through the director of the agency, or through the ministry, or government. So, there will be no possibility that workers who are listed, who are working in accordance with Article 18, in any way in this collective dispute will come to their rights that have been denied to them so far, and we assume and have in mind the government's intention that their rights will only be denied in the near future. That is why this law is also proposed and most likely will be accepted by the congregation majority. There's no minister here. Again to ask the question – what is the protection of workers' rights so far in the existing legal system, and especially through his ministry, which he manages? What does an inspection of the work in doing its jobs and how it protects workers' rights, which are at risk in all actions and areas of work in Serbia. How did the inspectors protect the work of workers' rights in the so-called privatised companies, which essentially remain without any rights by the act of auction itself, and in essence no longer respects the provisions of the Labour Act, without talking about collective contract, individual labour contract?- I'm sorry. We are witnessing a terror which you so-called. The new owners are operating over hundreds of thousands of workers in privatised companies, and they are essentially helpless and have no protection against labour inspection, prosecution, the MUP, without speaking from the courts! Will that practice, which former Labour Minister Milovanovic, will repeat through the Ministry of Labour, try to build a Labour Party, and we have witnessed in the Kingdom that the minister is over so-called. His party had candidates for the council of the Royal Assembly, so all his work inspectors were on the committee list! Whether Minister Lalovic will now try to create a party, which he does not, it is obvious, that through a peacemaker, arbitarians and possibly re-involve labour inspectors, that for some of the next elections to come, he will try to reach some percentage of the voter of Serbia. But, as they recognized the fraud by Minister Milovanovic, Serbian citizens, who in most cases are jobless or if they work and receive salaries irregularly or do not receive them at all, live hard and too hard, often at the border of existence, will not be deceived either by Minister Lalovic. All that now seems to be with this bill on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, in anticipation of major social tensions and justified dissatisfaction throughout Serbia, will not prevent workers in Serbia from protecting their naked life and naked existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8580	Anyone else on this amendment come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as the previous laws and proposals of the law, so this law is quite unrealistic, with many drawbacks, many shortcomings. The previous speakers also said a lot about being in collegiate with the applicable laws, which means that today was not to be found on the agenda of this congregation. In fact, as well as the previous proposals for legislative projects, so does this law, it is mainly about setting up some agencies, credentials, committees, etc. And previous legal projects, which we received here from the DOS government or part of the DOS government, mostly consisted of forming some kind of agency, some kind of trust, advice, peacemakers, etc. What's the point of all this? The goal is to distract Serbian citizens. The aim of this is to remove responsibility from the government of Serbia and the competent ministries, i.e. not to be responsible for disgruntled workers and citizens of Serbia, and to transfer this responsibility to someone third, or agencies, trust, committees, and also to name agencies, peacemakers, trustees. So they simply create their own party exposures, over which they can rule, and workers and citizens of Serbia are distracting and delaying their solutions and their dissatisfaction. Go across Serbia from town to city, from municipality to municipality, you will see that almost every city or municipality has a strike. Workers strike against their new employers, but unfortunately, no one hears them. It's just that what happens is the worst, i.e. that this new employer comes with his private security, enters the factory, the factory workers strike and normally, can't get into their factory, even though they're out of work and without bread! Therefore, it is also my Novi Pazar, Trikotaz "Raška", where workers strike for months, block highways, but also walk from office to office, from agency to agency, and never come to the right place, which means they are received by the Minister of Privatisation or by someone from the government at all, who would help them solve their problems! As with the previous amendments, this amendment to Article 21 has been designed to regulate the legal aid service instead of atonement. Normally, there is a legal aid service for each local self-government. It would be the first distance where dissatisfied workers could turn, and then normally their disputes would be settled by competent courts. In this way, he wants to prevent workers from solving their dissatisfactions before competent courts. In the end, I can't help but mention this previous government, DOS mania, and part of DOS, which here for days has to, for God's sake, do this, do it. And they don't accept a single shred of conscience that they are the greatest culprits and creators of such laws, that they are the ones who made the privatisation law and the Labour Act, which affects the citizens of Serbia and our working people. It's just enough of their morality. I believe that Serbia's citizens have not forgotten the DOS power, which has legalized the robbery of social property and Serbian citizens through the law of mass law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8582	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Milan Veselinovic. I'm taking a break, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm finishing my morning work and I'll see you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. The service has been reported to have 150 MPs present. I pray at the beginning of work that we determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic system, we have confirmed that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We stopped by the amendment on Article 21, which was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic and spoke about this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has a completely different concept of the law, as you've already called it, about the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, so logic tells me that there should be some kind of restless settlement of labour disputes, so I'd like to be asked to explain to me what is meant by peaceful, and what is under disquieting? We are completely conceptually different when it comes to the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia has re-defined itself to form some new bodies, and this time in the form of a peacemaker, arbitarians and, of course, inevitable agencies to resolve, or to settle labour disputes peacefully. The SRS is of the opinion that organs already in existence should be used for this purpose. We have suggested that they be "legal aid services" to local self-government units. The government has decided to form new bodies, which will implement the law. You're probably handling the fact that we're living very well, our economy is extraordinary, we don't have social welfare, the political situation is very stable, so let's single out a dozen million dinars from the budget to fund the peacekeepers, the arbiters and the agencies that these jobs are supposed to do?- I'm sorry. My amendment to Article 22. The bill follows the amendments of my colleagues to the previous members, since we are in favour of abolishing the peacemaker, the arbitration officer and the agency, I asked for Article 22 to be deleted, and he says, "The Peacekeeper is the chairman of the Committee," so to erase it. I would like to appeal to the motion that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. This is one bad law that will bring harm, among other things, because this is a restrictive law that forbids employees in Serbia of the right to strike. Do you want to ban educational workers from strike, do you want to ban medical workers from strike? You'd better provide them with normal working conditions, provide them with European personal income, and we wouldn't need such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8585	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure? Wait a minute, and then on the amendment to Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly were violated several times yesterday by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Markovic, and I did not want to point to these injuries today as Mr Mihailovic chaired, but I was waiting for Mr Markovic to start chairing. There have been multiple injuries, which I will only point to. There have been serious injuries that will cause us to ask for a detailed explanation by the president of the National Assembly, but we will also ask that representatives of the parliamentary groups be made aware of this. First, the president of the National Assembly disobeyed the decision of the National Assembly to do so until the 7th item of the agenda was completed. So, in my opinion, that decision could not have been made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because it could not be put to the vote. Once the decision was made and the president of the National Assembly formally declared that the decision had been made, he had to respect the decision and should not interrupt the session unless the assembly made a new decision to terminate the work. Then you deceived the People's Messengers when you said that the session was attended by 86 people's messengers. First, I took a stenogram from yesterday's session, even though you said it wasn't true, you called the first Members who were on permanent duty in the Assembly. You had no right to do so, and you had no right to call the MPs, because only the representative, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, can do so, if it raises doubts about the existence of the quorum and is determined by the count. You were not empowered to do so because no president, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has expressed doubts about the quorum identified by the count, nor has the quorum been determined by the count. Then you read the messengers who did not keep working in the congregation, and when those two lists were compared, you could see that you called 16 messengers twice and among those who were in constant work and those who were not in constant work.- I'm sorry. I allow Mr Markovic that you could by any chance get the wrong list, so you can call those who are not MPs, as you did when you called Goran Jocic, who resigned last week as a member of the People's Parliament in the Republic Assembly and moved to the federal parliament, i.e. the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You could have made a mistake reading the old list without reading Mr. Sulejman Spah, but you couldn't make such a mistake and that Mr. Goran Jocic, who was neither an MP nor was there, recorded as present, and you just did so. So on the page marked "the number of 38/1 stenograms" from yesterday's session, you said, "Jocic Goran, present". Jocic Goran is not an MP, he was not there. I demand, Mr. President, that you plead with me on these injuries, but that you think carefully first. We demand that the other parliamentary groups be made aware of this, because this is a repeat of the Bodrum affair, gentlemen, this is a re-election from Turkey and Thessaloniki, and we want to see if you have learned anything or do everything as your predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8587	I accept Mr. Sarovic's initiative and ask all parliamentary groups to make a statement as to whether the President of the Assembly has injured the Rules of Procedure, because the President of the Assembly.... I never need to plead, because it is my duty to work on the Rules of Procedure and when conditions are difficult, as it was last night, anyway, I am working on the Rules of Procedure, including the remarks that you have put on which I will, of course, answer you now. Of course, if the President of the Assembly worked past the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic, I had committed myself to all MPs and done more than that. I have asked everyone together to try to make sure there are no issues in the work of the congregation, and I thank you for all the MPs who have helped me so far. That's what I'm gonna do in the future. The moment he suspected that I had done something unwittingly, let alone consciously, which would have hurt the assembly, MPs, let alone affect the work of the Assembly, of course, to resign that moment. There are people who do two things. They respect the law and respect moral principles, and I think it's good for us all to learn to use it to society. As far as you're concerned, you have no problem. As far as the plea is concerned, I'm asking the MPs' groups to come forward. As for the concrete remarks, except for the ones I responded to last night and they're in a stenogram, so I'm not going to repeat, you're absolutely right that it was done by article 86, but I've informed you that it's being done by article 217. Also, after the intervention of the MPs in the follow-up I asked that the lists that I had put here be made available to the office. Also, the procedure lasted a terrible long time, you're right, as the stenogram says, is the first one of the lists per article 217 and the second one. It's not true that, since these lists are available, it's session material and it's physical, it can be checked, it's not rounded up as present. No MP who may have been recorded by a stenogram as my question, you know, when I read the name, since you didn't know, I ask the name "present," so when I say, "no one appears to be present, of course that name doesn't circle." Then two more lists were compared. As for the objection that I violated the Rules of Procedure by not respecting the Assembly's decision to conclude the 7th point, I did so on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, which I also informed the Assembly on the basis of a member of 169 who said - the National Assembly sessions and its committees are public. Since that moment obviously could not be made public last night, and happiness is, so it is distasteful to mention Bodrum and whatever kind of abuse of the Assembly, because no amendment has been considered in the follow-up session since the moment of the number, let alone something else, was spoken of happily, as you can see, only the Rules of Procedure. Today we continued Amendment 8 submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, who was read with a desire to continue work last night. I am on the request of the opposition MPs to intervene in the Rules of Procedure and to suspend the work of the Assembly, if I find that the transfer is gone and that there will be none, which I informed the MPs twice during last night and after the inability to establish a transfer, of course I interrupted the session, because this assembly has nothing to hide. This applies to all MPs, to the president, and there is no reason for it to be maintained beyond transmission. Now, yesterday, as well as once that happened a few days ago and in the future while I am in this place there will be no work unless it is public, because you are representatives of the people and the people must see how you discuss on behalf of the citizens who chose you. That's why I'm going to fight, of course. Are you satisfied with the explanation? If you are not, the congregation will declare that. National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8588	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Article 22, says that the Peacekeeper chairs the Peace Committee, opens and conducts the debate, and representatives of the parties present their views and proposals in the dispute debate. Is it not clear from this bill that during the proceedings before the agency, in front of the arbitration panel, a record is kept in front of the peacemaker? Whether it is an integral part of the minutes of the decisions, i.e. the recommendation or the alignment agreed upon by the parties. Whether the parties sign the minutes, whether they have the right to comment unless they are satisfied with the way in which the proceedings are conducted. Does the minutes establish all the significant proposals that have an impact on the outcome of the debate? For the outcome of the decision, for the outcome of the recommendation. So the minister didn't offer us that explanation, he didn't give it to us. During the debate, I asked a number of questions, primarily legal questions, the minister, and I expected certain answers. The procedure for the peaceful settlement of work disputes has obviously not been defined until the end. Many important issues have been raised that have been put directly in the power of the minister following the adoption of this law. This opens up the possibility for the minister of volunteering to settle proceedings before the agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. That is why I call on the minister to publicly announce, here, before the MPs of this parliament and the citizens of Serbia, that a procedure will take place at the agency for the peaceful settlement of work disputes. How many employees will be in that agency? Who will adopt a job systematization, what will be the salary? Where will the archive be held, who will run the register and register of parties and the register of items being conducted in front of a peaceful dispute resolution agency? How jurisdiction will be based, whether the departments will be pushed out or the citizens of Serbia, plagued by labour disputes, will have to come from the farthest places in Serbia for justice and for a peaceful solution in Belgrade. Those who do not receive a minimum profit, who dispute over this minimum profit, will have to borrow to provide themselves and their proxies with transportation to Belgrade and to try to calmly with the employer, who has denied minimum earnings, provide a solution to his dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8589	Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8590	Mr. Markovicu, Article 217. The Rules of Procedure on Work say: "The MP who is on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. The Members of the People of the 1st Chamber, who are unwarranted when determining the quorum or during work at the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of the Parliament at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." This member of the Rules of Procedure does not in any way authorise you to make a call to the MPs. Or to discriminate against whether they're in constant labor or not. If you think that you will achieve something by taking away some of the MPs from the status that they have, you can do so. It's your right. But the article in 86 you just called, I didn't even mention it. I was talking about the injuries of some other members, so... 28, 82 and so on. And as for the fact that you said – Goran Jocic, well – whether he is present or not, that is simply not true. Here, I will read the stenogram, right from word to word, as you called it: "Avram Mita is not there, Anastasovski Dragoljub is not there, Angelkovic Zoran is not there, Antić Zoran is not there". And here's very interesting, let me show you how the next time, when you called the second time, you called out the MPs who weren't in constant work, so for the first time you call out and say, "Anastasian Dragoljub isn't here," and the second time you call out and you say, "Anastasian Dragoljub was." Well, I don't know if you counted on him, too. I guess it was that morning, so you figured it out in the quorum. Well, then you say, "Freed Adzic is present, Banović Donka is present, Baralić Rajko is not there" etc. Well, you come to: – "Jovanovic Natasa is not there, Josimov Ivan is present, Jocic Goran is present, Karaičić Boris is present" etc. So there's no point, Mr. Markovic, about you asking if anyone's here or not. And what the gentlemen of the ruling majority have no problem with this kind of work we see, gentlemen, as your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8591	Thank you. So, really, I'm trying to remind you one more time, which is why I called on Article 217. As you have read, it is mandatory, if they do not announce, that the MPs who are in constant work attend the session, then they would also be aware of what is written in the stenogram. So he makes it clear – he was, he was called. So that's what's missing. You realize that it has already been called and that it is not there, as I have instructed you once before, you can get from the secretary of the Assembly who was present and there are lists on which it is surrounded, and if the stenogram lacks a question mark after a word – present, you can simply check the list and see that the MP is not rounded. Once again, I remind you, therefore – no session, except for discussions on the Rules of Procedure, is then not continued, so I do not understand in any way what the illusion is. You're not satisfied with this explanation? Or is it? No, you're not, that's what the Assembly will plead. The amendment, or the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momchilov? According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's Messenger, Paya Momchilov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8592	Dear Members of the People, I am obliged to intervene today. You injured article 97 yesterday. The Rules of Procedure, which says "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group", according to our amendment, have the right to replicate, not only representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups, but also other members to have a replica. In his discussion, Mr. Prorokovic said, I read a stenogram, quote: "I think it's still disrespect for the Rules of Procedure and that the cards are drawn from the identification units, and that the MPs here hide like they're playing hide-and-seek, is not like that to the National Assembly. I appeal to all those who do so to make themselves known, to try their work to do maximum responsibility." I wanted to intervene and I had a replica of this exhibit. The SRS MPs, the only ones who weren't in the O.R., are not hiding anywhere. We're standing in front of the O.R. in public. I was going to say, don't ask us to do a quorum for you. We participate very actively in each work. We're here every time the law and the amendments are discussed and I don't allow a lesson in this way. Please, I'm prevented from saying that. Furthermore, I also presented Article 81 to this congregation. The Rules of Procedure state clearly that: "Sessions of the National Assembly at which legislation proposals are held, etc. etc. - "in general and in detail, they are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in 10 to 18 hours with an hour's interruption. Please, if you're going to vote, means by one majority, by a non-discipline coalition to derogate the Rules of Procedure, you can do it, but we won't be silent. I was also obliged to warn you, as a doctor, that people don't have the opportunity to sit here for more than 12 hours, and that then I can... (loud – theme). It's absolutely a theme. I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and explain what these injuries are in view. It says in the Rules of Procedure, you can look at it yourself. But I'm telling you again -- you can't keep people here for more than 12 hours, and you can exhaust them and quickly "mandue" the important laws of this assembly. Yesterday, the way you ran the assembly was wrong. He does not contribute to the fine work of this congregation. You're saying you interrupted the session because the television transmission was off. It's not!- I'm We insisted and insisted several times that you break up the irregular assembly and that the MPs could not make good judgment after 12 hours. The best proof that this is true is your way of running this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8593	Thank you. Thank you for reading the stenogram. Because the following is the claim that was made last night, which is that Dusan Prorokovic did not mention any MP groups individually, and I have to correct the injustice. So it is not true, I repeat again, it is not correct to claim that only the MPs of the SRS were not present. Please, 86 MPs were present. That means everyone else wasn't, so from different parties. Please, there were some MPs from every party. So I really couldn't do it that way. And now we have found, therefore, that Mr. Prophetovic has not called any party individually, but has spoken of the MPs in general, who are, and has been explicitly warned. Please, can we continue our work or are we still going to do business? Here you are, Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8594	Mr Markovic, if that were the way you claimed yesterday, if all the MPs from the G17 plus and these others were present, we wouldn't have that problem. You'd be here 100, or 85, but it would certainly be enough for you to hold a session. You're...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8595	Mr. Sarovic, I just said they were away and not present. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8596	Like this: - President: "I ask the MPs to check the quorum. Please insert your cards into the e-system MPs. Apparently, there are no DS and SRS MPs. I'm taking a 15-minute break." These are your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8597	Those are words from the previous part of the session, as you can see, up in the header writing the time spoken about 19 hours, when it happened. And Mr. Momchilov was talking about this part after 20.00 hours. Is that right? That's right, after Mr. Prophetic's exposure. Thank you for your understanding. Anyone else want a word with the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want to talk about Mr. Radic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here is the word of the People's Messenger Zlatko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, to Article 22(2), which reads: "The Peacekeeper is the chairman of the Committee. The Peacekeeper opens and conducts the debate. Representatives of the party in the dispute in the debate shall present their views and proposals." I suggest that instead of "The Peacekeeper opens and conducts the debate," he says, "The legal aid service opens and conducts the debate." My amendment was submitted analoguely to Article 7. The bill submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta, which is essential that the SRS proposes instead of establishing another agency, working disputes are resolved by the legal aid service already existing in all municipalities and which is humane and in any other way able to carry out jobs relating to the peaceful settlement of work disputes. Mr. Minister, several MPs from the SRS have recommended that you withdraw this bill. You and the government won't lose anything, and society will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8599	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8600	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 23. The draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes says, "The peacemaker has the right to separate, outside the debate, collect information and other information from party representatives in the dispute," my amendment suggests that the word "sainter" be replaced by the words "legal aid service". This proposal is based on the hypothesis that peaceful dispute resolution is, in any case, the most suitable solution, both from the aspect of efficiency and from other aspects. Unlike court disputes that are very long, slow, expensive and almost always have tensions, because one dispute cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of all parties in the dispute. A similar solution in our practice was forty, fifty years ago, so on. The peace council that was within the local communities. The peace council was represented by the most prominent citizens of the local community. Despite their strong authority and the fact that there have been such disputes that could have been resolved peacefully in this way, the disputes have almost never been settled in a peaceful way. That is why the idea of peaceful dispute resolution, which has already proved unrealistic, is therefore abandoned as unreal. It's about trying to get back into practice. Therefore, if the opposing parties in the dispute had the will and interest in a peaceful settlement of the dispute, then they would have the role of a peacemaker by the legal aid service in the competent assembly of the municipality. The claim that legal services in the competent congregations of municipalities are not sufficiently trained and that they are not able to carry out such disputes is incorrect, so as to ensure that there are always lawyers in each legal service with completed judicial examinations, graduates and I do not see any reason why they cannot resolve disputes of this kind, and even if there is a fact that such types of disputes in complexity are simpler than those judicial disputes. Other institutions like, say, arbiters, agencies, I find them unnecessary, superfluous and should be abolished as such. I suppose these facts are well known to the legislator, so I am convinced that in this way, with such a perfidious way, he is trying to implement the substitution of the Law of Labour with the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which would be violence against law and against citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8601	On the same amendment, the People's MP, Natasa Jovanovic, has the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I really do expect, given that we are already very much going to debate specific problems in the law, key Article 18, to go out for a pay phone, and you're not going to wait as your colleagues ten to six, so you can explain why you don't accept our amendments. It's really impossible to accept just a few sentences. From the first to the last amendment, the amendment is repeated - not accepted for the same reason as the amendment to Article 1 submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop Lazic. It's not right and it's not right. Secondly, if you're going to, and all the time you're saying it's your intensity and your ministry, to run that social dialogue, then it would be best if you could talk to us here and explain to us whether you have any new arguments other than this one sentence in favour of not needing a peacemaker. This article says that the peacemaker has the right to collect information and other information separately from party representatives in the dispute. Again, we ask you a question that is a problem in Serbia - what if the peacemaker cannot reach one side of the dispute? What is the penalty for it if it does not collect the information, and at all the amendment that I have submitted, which was before the break, in the process of calming down, (Article 21) when I warned you nicely about that fact and we illustrated it to you through the problem of the disappearance of the other side when it comes to the company "July 7th" from Kurzumlia. So these are all concrete things, concrete cases in Serbia. That's what this is about. Therefore, it would be your turn to go out for a pay phone and tell us that it is not only done by reading some part of the exposé that you have not read in the interpretation of this bill, and it would be best, given that many arguments have been in favour of the failure of this law in the past hours, yesterday and today, to withdraw the law. You're right about that. Maybe that's why you're wise to keep your mouth shut so you can tell us somewhere at half-six or fifteen to six-- I'm withdrawing the law from the procedure. Cut off all this trouble and don't put us in a position to talk all the time about how the workers won't have any idea, because they won't. Now, step out, gentlemanly announce that you're withdrawing the law; the law is not good, it's against the Constitution, it's against the Law of Prosecution, and we're going to go after something else that's on the agenda, and those other laws that are on the agenda, you'll see, start with the agencies, and in turn, not that they're with the misses, but a complete failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8603	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8604	Dear People's MPs, as we go to the analysis of this law from member to member, I think those who have had some vague idea of this law or had dilemmas in the quality of this law, that now everyone is convinced that this law is impossible. Our fellow MPs, who have the right to a narrow profession, have explained to us in detail that the law is contrary to both the Constitution and to the collapsing with some other laws, such as the Labour Act and the Law on Prosecution. That would be enough reason for the law to withdraw, to create a new text. Even if you had adopted all amendments to the SRS MPs, it would not have been a good law again, and we have submitted so many amendments, that through these discussions to the public, to the professional public and to you – the parliamentary majority, or even to the promoter, we would have explained and proved that the law deserves to be re-worked on. If the Proposer had decided to do so, I think it would be valuable to review the stenogram from this session and try to respect all the arguments that the MPs made. I'm in a dilemma whether this is the law in the order of those laws that we've already adopted in this session and which we've forgotten with the adoption day, or whether it's the law whose destiny is to just be recorded as being adopted, because it's supposed to be our obligation. The government, as well as the previous one, also believes it must pass a number of laws that will mean Serbia's approach to the European Union. If that reason stands exclusively for the adoption of this law, I have some understanding, but then it should be clear to everyone that the law will not apply, because trying to apply it would cause a lot of problems. If the government really wants to settle this area, try to really pass a law that will try to resolve working disputes peacefully, I repeat again, that a quality law must be made that will not be contrary to the Constitution, which will be integrated into Serbia's legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8605	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I heard on some news last night that there was a meeting with Minister Lalovic that was supposed to be held by workers in "Attention", but that the minister did not come to the meeting because he has a lot of obligations and is busy at the Serbian Parliament. I see today, I said that in your absence, Minister, you are only here to make quorum, since you are also a People's MP. It is amazing that after so many remarks from the SRS parliamentary group and the so many arguments you've heard, you don't need to say anything or in favor of this law or that, if you think we're right, you're saying we're really right. A colleague named Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. What does Article 25 say? He speaks of a committee that participates in the settlement process, and this committee is regulated by a member of the 21st draft law. Article 21 provides that the parties to the dispute shall determine their representatives in this committee. Then it is very interesting if these parties in the dispute can agree on a representative who will eventually resolve a disputed situation. It's evidence more in favor of our claim that there's no need to form any agency, no peacemakers, no peacemakers, as you call them here "new talk". You say in Article 25 that "The Committee makes a recommendation in writing, with an explanation", and that it is necessary for the recommendation to be voted by all members of the board. This insistence on unanimous decisions, or consensus, is simply unacceptable, unsustainable and inapplicable. If parties in the dispute could agree, then they would not be party to the dispute. As soon as there is any dispute, regardless of any attempt to resolve peacefully, these recommendations cannot be expected to be adopted by unanimous decisions by members of your committee. It is particularly a question of what kind of recommendation it is, because in this law it only states that it is necessary for the recommendation to vote on all board members and that the committee makes a recommendation in writing, with an explanation. What's that recommendation, what does it mean, what's it supposed to stand for? Will this recommendation contain the text that parties in the dispute be directed to a competent court? They know that without that board. If they can't make a deal, they have to go to court anyway. Again, what we've been telling you all day, this law does not speed up the solution between parties in a dispute. On the contrary, it slows him down for as long as you're predicting for the functioning of these peacemakers, the committee, the arbitration panel, who you've all predicted here in this law. Article 25, paragraph 3, states: "If the committee does not make a recommendation within five days of the date of the hearing, the peacemaker may propose a recommendation to the parties." Who understands this member, I would really like him to come out here and explain to us who makes the recommendations, who do those recommendations oblige, what do they mean, what is the committee, what is the peacemaker here? It is such a papacy that it once again confirms the position of the SRS that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure and that MPs have wasted two days of their time in vain, rather than doing what is expected of us. Believe me, this famous law on the work of Serbian citizens has been expected since 2000, from the moment they realized how devastating it was then to pass a law, or law that was not even passed, since it was voted for by Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8607	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'd like the minister to remain in the O.R. First of all, I want to point out one provision of this law which provides that the decision of the Peace Committee has the power of judicial alignment. Ladies and gentlemen, this provision puts an informal bureaucratic organ, part of some bureaucratic apparatus above the court, above the law, above the judiciary. It is not possible to recognise a decision, a recommendation or a unanimous statement of will, the power of judicial alignment. The court settlement can only be brought by courts. For what? Because there is a presumption of the people's trust in the court, because judges are, as a rule, independent, impartial and professional persons who are elected by special procedure, chosen by the National Assembly, whose function is permanent. The judges are immeasurable and all this gives a firm guarantee of their independence and independence. Therefore, a decision, called court settlement, cannot be refuted by regular legal means, but can be refuted in special litigation procedures for less willful reasons. Therefore, if they are brought on the basis of delusion, force, coercion, or threat, such court rulings may be challenged in certain special proceedings. This law does not define a legal instrument that can attack a decision that has the power of judicial alignment. This further raises the question whether the decision, which has the power of judicial alignment, can be carried out forcefully in the executive procedure? If the decision of the Peace Committee, the Peace Committee, the power of the executive order, was to be written and this should be read - "the decision of the Peace Committee has the power of the executive document and can be carried out by force in an executive procedure before the court", but no decision by some volunteers, which form the composition of the Peace Committee, can be taken equal with the decision of the court. Please, this judiciary in Serbia has been overrun. If such a law is passed, it means that some volunteers, perhaps uneducated, primitive and simplest workers, as commonly said in the people, who are representatives of the Peace Committee, will make a decision that will be equated with the decision of the highest court in Serbia. Is that smart, wise and possible? I don't think so, and that's another reason why I'm proposing that the minister withdraw this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8609	Thank you. My great admiration for the collegiation in this assembly. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment proposed by MP Darko Glisic in front of the SRS? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stojan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Stojan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 28 of the proposed law on peaceful dispute resolution. The Serbian Radical Party observes that the process of peaceful settlement of labour disputes should be completed before the service of legal assistance to municipalities. For that reason, I suggest that article 28 be deleted. In previous draft laws, we have pleaded against the establishment of agencies. In this case, the Republic Agency for the Peace settlement of Work Disputes shall carry out professional tasks relating to the selection of peacemakers and arbitarians. Indeed, we no longer have any laws that predict the formation of agencies. So I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia -- does he even know how many people are employed in all the agencies that have been established so far and how much it costs? I'm asking this for reasons because until now formed agencies have not given the expected results in their work. I therefore propose that the minister accept all amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group in order to improve the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8611	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8612	We have come, ladies and gentlemen, to the essence of this law, and the point is that the law is inadmissible, the point is that there are no sanctions and the point is that there is no possibility that someone who does not respect the law, in a certain way, should be announced. Article 28 states: "The settlement procedure ends before the committee if the parties conclude a dispute settlement agreement within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate". What happens if it goes 30 days, and parties in a dispute before the board conclude an agreement on a settlement of the dispute by peaceful means? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I suggest that the real government be taken into consideration, that the minister withdraws this law, that it no longer bothers the MPs and the public in Serbia, Serbs and the Serbian public are satisfied with such empty laws, laws that cannot be applied, a law that will be iquebaned in one of the cabinets of ministers, that this law be likened and finally, after a month or two, we talk about this point. This law does not solve anything, except it creates the possibility of hiring perhaps more aunts than those who are your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8613	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word. Mr. Cvetkovic, you asked a rhetorical question only that the government would answer or as a parliamentary question, how many agency employees are there? The messenger's out. I'm trying to see where he is. Please check, so we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8614	I'm looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure. In the section of the Rules of Procedure relating to the obligations and rights of the President of the Assembly, in the description of your position, Mr. President, it is not that you are doing a job that should be done by the minister. Therefore, in order not to come to such a situation that the issues relating to the presentation of MPs, in this particular case of colleagues of Cvetkovic, (where he is) speaking of the need for the existence and introduction of the agency and how much it would cost taxpayers, or the state, there was no need for you to address counterpart Cvetkovic with a dubious question, whether it was his question and whether he was asking for an answer, because that question was not addressed to you. That would be why it would be best, Mr. Chairman, that, under Article 89(2). The Rules of Procedure, as soon as Mr. Lalovic comes to the O.R., remind him of it, maybe the man doesn't know, maybe he thinks he should just sit here and shut up, that he can talk about this member and this attitude that as a legislator of this law, he can answer his word whenever he wants, that his time for discussion is not limited. That's how the MPs will get answers to all the questions. A lady from the Ministry sitting here patiently listening yesterday and today is not authorized to speak to us. As soon as the minister returns, you remind him of it, so you will remove all the dilemmas and you will not have to do so, perhaps you mean a funny way, but indeed it is not, to address the MPs, as you did a few seconds before I responded and reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8615	For God's sake, Ms. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and I ask, because the Rules of Procedure are clear and the MP's question is treated in two ways, in Articles 193 and 194 as it says, "Employment issues are being asked, as a rule," that is the first position. Please, I was distracted by the secretary's attention that it might have been a parliamentary question, so I just wanted to know, because the last position of article 193 says, "The president of the National Assembly will warn the MP, who asks the question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions." I was just asking if you should be treated as a parliamentary question or as part of the exposure to which, of course, the minister can answer now. That was the question, and you answered. I accept the answer. It was not a parliamentary question, but part of the presentation was sent to the minister. We could've solved that right away. Are you satisfied with the answer, please? The president of the assembly is obliged to ask if an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure is satisfactory, because if it is not, the Assembly declares.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8616	I'll go out and tell you if I'm satisfied or not. I'm not happy with the answer. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the Parliament, in the day of the vote, be declared, and it is likely that from this moment on there will be the manner of other fellow MPs, as well as yours, to allow whoever you ask to come out, not the bench to suit you, is not polite and it is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8617	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8618	With this amendment to Article 28, we have tried to draw attention to the fact that this bill has so many shortcomings and fellers that it is practically inapplicable. Article 28 stipulates that the settlement procedure, which concerns some of the topics and refers to a collective agreement, means that the settlement procedure ends before the committee if the parties agree on a settlement of the dispute within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate. This should be some deadline within which the issue needs a peaceful path to resolve. This should mean, however, if the subject matter of the dispute is so wide that it covers the conclusion we have, only the existence of a collective contract, if it is taken into account that the subject of the dispute has been added and issues concerning the freedom of union organisation and the right to strike, then whoever wrote this article had a unilateral view of possible decisions and deadlines in which something could end. Of course, everything within the principle of volunteering which is problematic, as it is further in this law. This should certainly be added to the previous article, which says in the second position: "The Agency can publish a recommendation and reasons for not accepting a recommendation in the means of public information." That's the central question for which this law is passed. The law is offered precisely because all those who avoid a peaceful settlement of the dispute under this law would publicly criticise, criticise their act and draw attention from the essence of the disputed relationship that exists. This should also be added to the fact that the state is no longer one of the participants in the general collective agreement. Since the state is not one of the participants in the general collective agreement, then all this is done is unnecessary. This way the state washed her hands, she's not interested in anything. If she was interested in something, this dispute would never appear, not even this way of resolving disputes. There are very difficult provisions, probably someone will initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court on the legal importance of the recommendation, but in this article 28 you say - the procedure before the board, and in the previous article you state to the agency. When you look at all these provisions, there's no clear line here where the board starts, where the peacemaker starts, where the agency starts. So, all with the aim of avoiding it, of not seeing the court anywhere, as if otherwise one can't solve a dispute, but this mediation that needs to buy time, to delay the problem, and here it's supposed to be 30 days. And how about a 30-day deadline for something that's slow, when it comes to the freedom of union organization?- I'm sorry. That's impossible. How do you later think about individual work disputes, because you only got out of two areas, you quit your contract and minimum profit. It's a personal right. How can you force someone into this when only the court is authorized to resolve these disputed relations? It's like writing a law for another country, and it's impossible to apply it here. Find a private company that's gonna work like this. So now it wouldn't be interpreted as fearing someone here, we generally have a problem with workers, finding good workers, quality workers. This is the problem of the social sector, the state sector and the private sector, and we will not have a good worker and a high-quality worker until there is a legal guarantee of the minimum of his rights, rights that can effectively be realised by the employer, which, in the case of labour inspection, is done by the court. You're going to have to reduce these hideouts with some peace councils, arbitrations, so with some new expressions, there's no effective protection here, there's just an EPP and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8619	Anyone else on the amendment? First Mr. Ristic who answered, then Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8620	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Article 28 provides that the settlement procedure should be terminated before the committee if the parties conclude a dispute settlement agreement within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate. However, the date of the opening of the debate is not defined by this law. This law defined that a debate would be scheduled within 30 days, but it is not said to open the debate within 30 days of the date of the party's declaration. So, this leaves the possibility of an unnecessarily prolonging procedure, without legal restriction. A moment ago, Mr Krasic mentioned that freedom and the right to union organisation cannot wait for such long deadlines. However, if the deadline was up to 30 days long, we might accept that it is necessary and possible or mandatory to end a peaceful dispute within 30 days that it is not a provision of the next member, Article 29, where he says, "If the procedure does not end within the meaning of Article 28." So within 30 days, the Peacekeeper disbands the board and continues the settlement procedure with direct contact with parties in the dispute. In the case referred to in Article 1, the Peacekeeper shall assist the parties in the dispute to meet, discuss the matter of the dispute and conclude a dispute settlement agreement. So, he has an obligation to deal with it within 30 days, and if he doesn't solve it and he doesn't fulfil his obligation, then he can do whatever he wants with them, meet, discuss, talk, negotiate and offer them a new recommendation, so it takes a while. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is a completely missed project. This law degrades the court, allows and recognises the right to judicial decisions, by decisions in full before a bureaucratised body. The question arises whether these decisions, where the importance of a court ruling is recognised, are inability to conduct a court dispute. There's one principle right: - you can't decide the same thing twice, you can't solve this matter in front of one body, if there's a procedure in front of another. All these are misunderstandings and confusions that introduce this law into our legal system. I really don't believe that the justice minister, Mr. Stojkovic, has read this law, because if he had read it, I think he would have gotten the Minister of Labour out of the government. Please, this is a disaster, this is contrary to common sense. You have two laws that define the same procedure. The law provides for the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, and Minister Stojkovic has defended it so much and has not allowed MPs to change the law minimally, as he says, is said to be deviating from the concept. Here, not to deviate from the concept, but to put the law, most of it, out of force by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8621	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll remind you of that people's "Where have you been, where have you lost"? This is the case for you with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who is dawdling on such projects, instead of dealing with very important legal projects that are good and important for the Republic of Serbia. You see, for years, we haven't had any laws in the field of agriculture. What we don't have here is a food sales agency, maybe for raspberries, potatoes, wheat, corn, why there's no such idea, because that's what the citizens of Serbia will support. With laws like this, we are wasting unnecessary time here, and on the other hand, Serbian citizens do not benefit at all, only damage. My fellow Members had previously spoken (both Zoran Krasic and Mr Bosko Risic) about Article 28 and Article 29. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 28 provides for a peaceful settlement of the dispute to be carried out by the Committee. It's a working body that's predicted. If within 30 days they fail to conclude a peaceful dispute settlement agreement, they are now resorting to that hopeless situation, or should I say the necessary defense or in extreme need. Let's try now if we don't reach an agreement within 30 days, we'll give the peacemaker the right to disband the Committee. Now he's as captain of the ship taking the helm and going, but he doesn't know where he's going. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the law in the preceding article provides for an institution to form a committee to resolve peaceful disputes, it is now possible to leave the situation to a peacemaker for whom there is no deadline; within what time period should it open the debate, within which time should the parties call for a peaceful settlement of the dispute, within which time should it adopt a recommendation. It's not there. The biggest disaster is in Article 30, which is related to Article 29, which norms, among other things, in point 2. If the parties to the individual dispute are subject to judicial proceedings on the same factual and legal basis, the parties to the dispute shall be obliged to submit joint requests to the court for a standstill. You have such a situation that it is necessary for a citizen to end the case as soon as possible. The lawsuit was initiated by a citizen or by this entity under this contract. Any one of them. Whoever gives the right to a peacemaker, I would say to the unsuccessful peacemaker, who will not have any results, the right to now force negotiators, or parties in the process to terminate the case. It is better to say here – if there is a litigation procedure, in which case there is no rest, because citizens that wanted to settle this dispute peacefully would have concluded the settlement before the court in charge. Therefore, it is pointless to allow a mistrial. On the other hand, where the sanctions are if the parties to the dispute do not want to end the case, they do not want to turn to the court, they want a parallel trial to be conducted, because they know if the case is terminated in the case that they have been pending for years that the legal dispute cannot be resolved. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dangoose, this is a needless waste of time in Parliament, on the other hand, I repeat, this goes on the back of taxpayers, because there are multiple red tape. Serbia has more bureaucracy than sheep.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8623	On the same amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8624	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, another very important question is being asked here. Although we have been discussing the law and in particular this whole working day and yesterday, the key question for all members of the Legislative Committee is, of course, not those of the SRS, because they voted against, how could this bill have been passed through the Legislative Committee? At this point, he is not the chairman of the Legislative Committee, but he could not say that the law is legally possible for a simple reason, how it is possible to grant approval for this kind of thing when they know that the Law on the Prosecution Act is against the Law, that is, this bill. How could they give approval for such a thing, not rebelling and not say, why didn't the Minister of Justice look at this, what's this all about? Why hasn't the whole government seen this whole problem. We come into a situation where we discuss details and get more involved with the chicken in the house, or the pronoun, because there is simply no way out in this situation. See now Article 29, which is required by the amendment of Serbian radicals to be deleted. I'm gonna have to read it to you one more time. "If the procedure does not end in terms of members"...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8625	Excuse me, Miss Jovanovic, it is the 28th Amendment to Article 28 that reads the same thing, Article 28 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8626	I must tell you, because it is strictly related to Article 29, which is what this is about: "If the procedure does not end within the meaning of Article 28 of this Law", because, both members are, if you have listened carefully to Mr Ristic, tied up, and follow the context of my story a little bit. You just know that Article 28, 29. What's in the law, what's the problem here, you don't care, concentrate a little on the whole story and what we're talking about here. He says, "If the procedure does not end within the meaning of Article 28 of this Act, the Peacekeeper disbands the Committee and continues the settlement procedure with direct contact with parties in the dispute." Article 28 says: "The settlement procedure ends before the Committee if the parties to the dispute conclude a dispute settlement agreement within 30 days of the date of the opening of the debate". What if it doesn't happen within 30 days? You have a case of companies, today all the daily presses have been published, and they are very familiar with the members of the Privatisation Committee with this "Auto Transport – Vrnjačka Banja". You now have such an example that workers are unhappy with the way they sell, and especially with an estimate of the value of capital in one of the most powerful transport companies in our country. What do they do now when this law directs them to end the dispute that leads to a standstill? What should they do in a situation where a peacemaker established in this way by law is not in a position to do so within the legal time limit? Explain that to us and tell us, although there are many MPs, unlike those who are willing to defend this blindly?- I'm sorry. You also know that we are representatives of the ruling coalition, so that the coalition partner, that you are in that situation, although it could never have happened to us, wronged and put before the National Assembly such a bill -- there are clearly MPs here who are aware that this is not applicable. They speak to us themselves optionally, not at the pay phone, because perhaps they are ashamed that the government has proposed such a bill. We've been talking all day about cases, various businesses, all these people who want to exercise their rights. But it's really like that. That he's inapplicable and he's opposed, and it's really impossible that the Legislative Committee said that he was "legally possible", let's go to procedure without challenging all this stuff that I was talking about. Think about it, this isn't a story just for the sake of the story, but to realize that many of the negative consequences will challenge the application of this law. Besides how it was written and how you planned and when to go, he won't be applicable, so be sure of that. Then Mr. Jojic, where we were, what we were doing, lost all our time and that's why this assembly could deal with some other important issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8627	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Boban Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 29. It's a bill that I suggest that Article 29 be deleted. The SRS is against this mode of calming and the proposal set out in Article 29 that the peacemaker disbands the committee and continues the settlement procedure with direct contact with parties in the dispute. This is absolutely pointless because the peacemaker could not have such powers, so this amendment provides for a peaceful settlement of the work dispute to be concluded before the legal aid service. That's why I think this member of the law should be deleted. So he will be in agreement with the earlier amendments submitted by the SRS MPs. The SRS is against this concept of the law, and the erasure of Article 29. I find the bill more comprehensive and I urge you to accept this amendment in the voting day. Surely we should have discussed more important and important laws for Serbian citizens these days, rather than dealing with such a pointless law that will never be applied in practice, it will not be able to live in this form in which the government has proposed it. That's why it's best that you withdraw this bill. This law is no good and impossible to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8629	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8630	People's proverb says, "The house burns and the grandmother combs." Thousands of workers are left out of work every day, dozens of businesses are closed daily. What is privatized is privatized so that at least two-thirds of those who have worked and received wages remain without bread, and we are passing a law by which, however, several hundred of your friends, friends of your friends, or close relatives will be employed, but the economy will continue to fail, and such laws will continue to be inapplicable. This government doesn't seem to care. She realized that her deadline was approaching and seeing as much of her household as possible, so that tomorrow at least they would be in a situation where they had bread. Just until article 29, in the government's statement, you mentioned 21 reasons for not accepting these amendments, as well as reasons for not accepting the amendments of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 1. It's a bill of law. Well, let's try to read your argument on Article 1. It says here: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the above-mentioned amendment proposes that the process of peaceful settlement of work disputes be carried out by legal aid services in the municipalities." Well, that's the point. That's the concept of the SRS. That is how local disputes are resolved at local level, and that is how the existing administration, the existing bureaucracy on one side, are employed by bureaucracy, and on the other hand, to solve these possible disputes. According to the legislation in practice of European Union countries (United Kingdom, Belgium, Hungary, etc.). As well as the US), special central services at the state level at ministries rather than at local level are being educated to carry out professional tasks in the peace settlement process. And what we have to do with the United States and how the issue of peaceful settlement of labour disputes in the United States, New Zealand or Greenland has been resolved. Let's try to solve these disputes with us in the most painless and easy way. Further (in reason) is said: "In these countries, intermediation and calming are dealt with by independent experts in the field of work who enjoy great reputation and trust of parties in the dispute and who must meet special (moral and professional) conditions in order to perform their function." With this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have offended all those lawyers who work in legal aid services in the municipalities. Where do you get the right to believe that they are not professional enough, if they are graduate lawyers, and that they are not moral enough, unless they are yours, so that you introduce others, who will be more moral and professional than they are. The organisation of peaceful settlement of labour disputes is governed by the draft law in accordance with those comparative legislation, as well as the recommendation of the International Labour Organisation on Voluntary Peace and Arbitration, the European Social Charter, etc. According to those international acts, Member States undertake to promote... - It doesn't matter, because it doesn't mean anything. So only 10 sentences written in this explanation. Jobs of peaceful settlement of labour disputes would not be able to carry out legal assistance services at the SO, and this is because the Law on Local Self-Government stipulates that legal assistance services can be organised at the SO, if necessary and in order to provide legal assistance to citizens. Is it not a peaceful solution, that is, to solve all disputes, exactly the legal assistance legal services usually provide SO, i.e. citizens in SO. Namely, it says: "these services can provide legal assistance consisting of writing, providing legal advice from the works of the municipality and others." And why can't they do this? "Professions of professional assistance in municipalities are carried out by employees in municipalities, and the jobs of peaceful work dispute resolution require independent ones," you listen to irony – "independent, impartial experts who are trained to carry out jobs of peaceful work dispute resolution". Come on, please tell me, you don't have to tell me, but tell the Serbian public where these schools and colleges end for peaceful work dispute resolution. I don't know if anyone's got a degree in...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8631	You're out of time...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8632	You know, it's a little longer and I have to quote, so it takes me time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8633	No, everything's fine, five minutes and 40 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8634	Jobs of peaceful settlement of labour disputes require independent, etc. "In addition, the professional services of the municipalities congregations are educated academically and do not meet international standards." And why don't you list the international standards that we have to meet...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8635	Mr. Markovic, six minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8636	Gentlemen, it's high time I asked you once more, gentlemen of the government, to prepare, if you're capable, some better proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8637	It's okay, thank you. The People's MP Zoran Krasic came forward, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8638	We ask that this member be deleted because he does not mean anything, he only encourages and strengthens the senselessness of the whole law. In order for that to be best seen, here, I will remind you of what you stated in article 26. It's said like this, we're in the field of collective disputes, so not individual disputes. In article 26 of the recommendation, you wrote: "If the parties to the dispute accept the recommendation, they conclude a dispute settlement agreement. If the object of the dispute is a collective contract, the agreement becomes an integral part of the collective contract. "When the collective agreement is concluded, you, with Article 2(1), have said that this dispute is possible unless the collective agreement is concluded, if it is a problematic change and addition of the collective contract, and the fourth situation, if it is the application of the collective contract. How can you apply this to what matter, subject, is not going to be clear to these licensed peacemakers either. I'd just like to remind you that's where you listed it as an integral part of the collective contract. In point 3. "If the object of the dispute is not a collective contract," then that is what you have also stated in Article 2(2) of Article 1 and then it is the exercise of the right to trade union organisation and strike. These are the things that are governed by the Constitution and the law. There's no possibility of standing around the right to a union organization. You said in the Labour Act if the company has up to 50 employees, if there are more than 50 employees, so you gave a dozen provisions on how to value which union is representative. That's where you got it all wrong. You've come into a situation where you're regulated by law by something that can't be regulated by law or arranged by other laws. I'm telling you this because in article 29, you said, "If the procedure doesn't end within the meaning of Article 28." And that's within 30 days, "the Peacekeeper disbands the Committee and continues the procedure of calming down," alone. Then why do you need a board? If someone, on the principle of volunteering, accepted that he was at peace this way through this peacemaker, he counted on having his own representatives, each side having its own representative and the peacemaker coming as a third. If within 30 days it is not done, then the peacemaker remains, they do not need and buy time. It's a ridiculous law. You'll probably notice what nonsense it is when you look at the way and the procedure of a peaceful resolution of the so-called. individual work disputes. You'll see all the senselessness, that you've spent so much time fixing something you're not authorized to do. The strike was arranged by the Strike Act, the union organization was governed by other regulations. I'm saying they're constitutional categories. The constitution guarantees it. How can you reconcile someone with the right to strike? How can you reconcile someone if it is, how did you say here, exercising the right to a union organization? I don't suppose the Peacekeeper will be able to interpret whether you have the right to a union in a company or not have the right to a union in a company. All these indiscretions, something that is impossible to put into context that you can only apply this where public enterprises are, and where private companies are there is no slowness. As soon as people get slow, they lose their jobs. Where's the solution? The solution is to apply the Labour Act. Not only this one, but also the previous government has not solved the problem of working on black, has not solved the problem of working time, has not solved the basics of the field of work, and you are now going to solve the peaceful solution of something that cannot be solved differently. People can't even go to court. When the labour inspector shows up, and the man who works on black avoids testifying because he knows he's gonna lose his job and that job on black. You're here pretending like it's not with us, it's somewhere abroad, it's in Zimbabwe, the Côte d'Ivoire, we're fine, there's only still peaceful disputes left to see that we don't need to go to court. Come out with this bill of law in front of the citizens of the electronic industry, the machinery industry, Lola and these other companies, and explain to them how to settle the dispute peacefully. Explain in an enterprise that is private property, how to resolve a peaceful dispute. You don't have the courage, but here with some floscules you play, you catch a connection to a Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8639	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8640	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Your Honor, this very member of the bill shows which instruments the government of Serbia wants to use to reject social pressures from the government itself, from the prime minister and from the resolute minister in charge of the field of work. I have already pointed out that this bill has only political motivation, which is that solutions to the problems of growing social tensions, which are due to the government's inability and unpreparedness to resolve the position of large systems, which it promised in its constitution. The law provides for a commitment to negotiate a peaceful settlement of collective agreements and, above all, in the area of the public sector. It is an area of traffic, energy, electricity, health care, education, social care, childcare, all of these are areas where the Serbian government has promised adequate compensation and wages, a view of the position of these public affairs of general interest, and, after all this has gone wrong, strikes are being prepared, attacks on the government due to social problems are being carried out. And, the government finds a solution; it proposes a law that will prevent strike in these areas because dissatisfied workers will have to address the agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes and thus draw up a solution. The government had a desire, and it has a desire and motive, to reject social requirements by this law, but it is not ready for the Minister of Labour to include in solving these problems, but rather wants to bring down the sixth scale below the government by the appointment of the director of the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Disputes, Arbitarians and Peacekeepers, to lower all problems. However, in order not to be so obvious by counting that MPs are overbooked, overworked, and that they will not have time and time to carry out an analysis of these legal solutions, they have made one mask, one cover, where it is reportedly that the arbiter or peacemaker is obliged to settle these disputes very quickly and in the short term. It is then said that the parties are obliged to agree within 30 days on a solution to the dispute, and if this does not take effect, Article 29 of this law, that the peacemaker is disbanding the peace council and then schedules meetings and talks with the parties internally, secretly, individually. During all this time, strikes and court proceedings remain still. It was the government's motive and desire that we discovered. This motive is criminal and it is at the expense of employees primarily in the public sector and in services of particular public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8641	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Gajic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 30. The Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes by proposing that the first word "arbitr" be replaced by the words "service of legal aid". The SRS finds it not a good concept of the law itself and that it is not good to form an arbiter, but his job can do legal assistance in local self-government. In these services there are high-level and qualified lawyers with a passed judicial exam, who are independent and objectively able to help participants in the work dispute to solve problems peacefully. That would make the procedure faster and cheaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8643	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8644	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is full of nonsense. We have been trying for two days to convince the assembly majority, as well as the minister, (when he comes to the O.R. occasionally) that it would really be good if this law were withdrawn from the procedure, that it was the labour law, because what is provided for this law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes would not do anyone any good in the country of Serbia. The highlight of this nonsense and nebulosis is Article 30(2), which says: "If a case is pending between parties in an individual dispute from the same factual and legal basis, the parties in the dispute are obliged to submit joint requests to the court for a standstill". My dear colleagues, this provision offends the intelligence of Serbian citizens. Do you think that someone who has initiated some work dispute regarding the cancellation of a labour contract or the payment of minimum earnings, after several hearings, will engage in a peaceful settlement of the work dispute and stop the procedure at a regular court. What is the opposite of the Law on the Prosecution, not to mention, were my colleagues talking about, but I ask those who vote for this and whoever suggested this – do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Serbian citizens are fools? It's really inadmissible like this. I repeat insulting the intelligence of Serbian citizens. For example, I'm going to show you and read the letter we got from the shareholders of the company AD "Inos Podunavlje" from Smederjevska Palanka. The company was bought by a certain Borislav Milicevic, Proimeks company. He already, I don't know how long, not to read everything, can't find a man, workers strike, majority owner didn't offer workers a job contract, no single collective contract, since June at Inos Podunavlje, there's no work process, there's no business contract. Meanwhile, 61 workers left the company. Some got fired, and others had to leave to, looking for a job on black, feed their families. There are no governing bodies in the company, the deputy director is on vacation this year since 23 August, and then retires. Such a statement was given to the labour inspector who was in control of this company. The last salary in this company was for September 2003. This new owner does not pay social and pension, there is no warm meal, nothing is paid to the company's jury account, and a business in Smederev has been sold for 5.2 million dinars. Imagine now, workers who entered court proceedings to get some money after receiving no salary since September 2003 and those who got fired in order to get back to work, and it is certain that an independent judge will rule in favour of these workers. Of course, I'm not prejudicing, but I guess. Imagine when this law comes into effect on the peaceful settlement of work disputes, we tell these workers – you joked, leave yourselves to the litigation, you come before our peacemaker and he will make you well at peace. And he's already made a deal with this Borislav Milicevic, the company owner, and then these people are going to lose another few months. In the end, what's going on? They must return to court again and there is no solution to the dispute until it is settled in court. So this is the creation of a paraorganization and this is, you see, I suppose you've read this text of the law, the following members have fully transferred the jurisdiction of regular courts to these arbitrations, peacemakers, agencies, committees. What counterpart Krasic said, there's no telling who's in charge here. So I call once again on Mr. Minister to, as a representative of the government, withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8645	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8646	Basically, I'd like to remove a few misunderstandings that I think are the main reason for the lack of understanding of solutions in this law. First of all, I take it as misunderstandings. The first thing I want to point out is that very often today, in the presentations of MPs, and yesterday, there are problems that exist when working disputes are brought before regular courts, in terms of the length of such disputes. You all know that working disputes before regular courts can last for many years and that the length of this dispute is the punishment for the worker, so after a certain number of years whether he won or didn't win the dispute. So the basic idea of a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes is to enable, of course, voluntary, because we certainly cannot rule out regular courts if the parties in the dispute want to resolve the dispute faster. That in a simpler and much shorter procedure, they can accept the role of arbiter or a peacemaker, that the work dispute ends in an uncomparably shorter period than those before courts where disputes are conducted. That approach itself is a solution that is present in a large number of countries that we want to look up to. I don't think that there was any introduction of such institutions because in these countries they want to spend more money or because for any reason they degrade courts, but because there is a need, and in fact, this is about us coordinating the whole of the system in Serbia with the changes being made in all segments. The privatisation process, which is under way in Serbia, regardless of certain contradictory elements in the process, is unstoppable. On the one hand, we get the owners of the capital, and on the other hand we get the workers. In such a mile, in such conditions it is perfectly natural and normal to introduce an institute or an institution of peaceful dispute resolution in the field of working relations. It is said here that this is about the costs, how much money is allocated in the budget, or is allocated to the functioning of the agency, to hire the peacemaker, to hire the arbiter. I'd point to another thing. How much will we actually save if we succeed and to the extent that we succeed, that a large number of disputes be resolved in a peaceful manner? How much is that? Incomparably bigger, I can't compare to what's planned in the budget, 10 million dinars to function in this system. I don't think the American government, the English government, that other governments in the countries where this institution exists, are some irresponsible consumers who want to throw money away. Of course not, because otherwise they wouldn't be rich countries like they are. The idea of this law is to create huge material savings for the entire Serbian society. In such a situation, 10 million in a year is simply inappropriate. That's what I want to put away as a completely inappropriate thing. What I want to point out here, where there have been certain misunderstandings -- the basic principle of this law is volunteering, what it is pointed to on several occasions as a problem. So, only if the parties to the dispute want the dispute to end this way and in this procedure, it will be conducted. It's freedom to have their rights, these parties. In this way we do not threaten the right of the parties to, unless the dispute is resolved in this way and within these short deadlines, go to regular courts and wait there for justice for three, four or five years. When we compare the duration of the work dispute, the objection that by introducing this procedure, which is voluntary, we will extend the work dispute is extremely unmistakable. Of course, the problem is entirely on the other side and we're just the opposite. The second important thing that has been pointed out in the speeches of the MPs is Article 18. The first thing I want to say, which I think should be known - according to the principles adopted by the Committee for the Freedom of Association of the International Labour Organisation, the commitment to calming that we here foresee is acceptable in the case of services of essential importance. I want to say that this is an international standard and that all responsible countries and responsible authorities, therefore responsible authorities and those countries that do not want chaos in their own country, assessing what services are of general interest to all citizens, foresee a special regime when it comes to them, all normal and responsible countries. We can be different and say we don't care, we go to chaos. So I think it would be extremely irresponsible and this government certainly won't support that kind of irresponsibility. What we predict here when it comes to services of general interest is that there is an obligation to keep still. If the obligation to stay still fails, of course, those services, in accordance with the rules governing the right to strike, have the right to strike. By the way, the Strike Act will suffer some changes, we're preparing that, but it doesn't matter now. So, the objection that we are restricting this large number of people right to strike - is not standing. Secondly, any government would be irresponsible to let, for example, health care or other services decide at any time in 15 minutes and strike. There's no such thing in any country. So, who wants us to be unique and unique, okay, to accept that, but I think it's extremely irresponsible. On the other hand, what I would ask is, when you read the provisions of this law to be read in general. I'll give you only one example, and it can apply to others. It is said at one point that there is a contradiction in the law, that the law provides for a voluntary settlement of arbitration, and that in Article 18, we say that it is mandatory to stay calm. When such an objection is made, a member should be read to the end. It states in that article that the principle of volunteering, if this law is not otherwise laid down in Article 18 for these services of general interest, is different. It's just for the sake of correctness that an entire member needs to read, I think it's an elemental thing. There is another type of objection that appeared here today - whether the law is applicable. One of the basic things when all this was discussed could be that this type of law is as applicable in all the countries where this is applied, unless the citizens of Serbia and we Serbs are not Martians, so there is only one thing that can't be applied to us. It is that under normal circumstances, in which we are, hopefully, through reforms and changes, this institution of rest will function perfectly normally, as well as in all normal countries, and will give a huge savings effect for society in general. But it's important and we all need to know and learn, and I know that this matter is new to most of us, we lived in another system -- it's impossible for this type of law, for this type of relationship to predict sanctions, which here has often been repeated. That's impossible because it's unnatural. It's just like if you were to provide in some law that if the parties didn't conclude, for example, a collective contract under the Labour Act, we would punish a party that didn't conclude a collective contract. So total nonsense. A collective contract occurs when there's consent and there's no sanctions we've learned, now we're going to put him in jail or fine him. It's completely unnatural for this type of relationship. Also, since consent is required here, the volunteering that both sides want to participate in the dispute, that sanctions are absolutely impossible and there are no sanctions in the world for this type of relationship, so this is about a completely different philosophy, another story. If we stay in the same story, and there's another story here, of course we'll make a mistake. If we get on the wrong train, all the stations are wrong on the way. The largest number of these amendments is precisely why they were put on, I'm sure with good intentions, because they got on the wrong train. You don't understand that this is another train and there are other stations. Therefore, the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes cannot, by its substance, accept one of the essential amendments listed here, which is that the legal aid services do so. That attitude is going through 10 or 15 amendments. It's impossible, because it's a completely different nature of relationships. That's what we wrote in the explanation. There was an observation why we repeated in the amendments in response, that we were calling on the one at the beginning. It's impractical, if that's the same argument, that in 26 places we repeat the same text, because there's no other text. Do we need to spend more paper, what's the interest and what's it about? I waited until today to hear most of the amendments of the MPs, and that's why I haven't gone out yet, but when everything that's said is summed up, it's just a few things I've just explained. It's just that he doesn't understand because it's a completely different approach to this matter. The amendments would be fine if we had old access to how we've been doing so far. I'd say, okay, well done, that's more rational, but here's another story. A few tiny details that are mentioned - the arbiters and the tranquilizers must absolutely be faces of integrity. This is about expertise - of course it will be professional, but more important than that, although it is about expertise, you are the personal integrity of these individuals. In a world where it works, there, after a while, these people who have integrity and authority to trust both sides in the dispute. It's a very important element in the application of this law -- that trust between us. Without that trust, there's nothing serious we can do. As for the agency and the talks on it and the amendment -- yes, of course, there must be an agency, it can't be a legal aid service. There's got to be an agency doing technical assistance, doing the work that's been said here. Of course, that agency is formed only at the level of the Republic, it does not form within, it does not form in the locale, let's clear that up, because at the level of the Republic, it determines actually a list of arbitarians, peacemakers and everything else. This part of the cost story, I think it's declassified in that sense. I expect, regardless of the amendments that have been made, to adopt this law, to allow workers to be in a position since the New Year that their disputes resolve faster, more quality, because, I would remind you that very often in regular courts, judges who judge are not from work relations, do not know enough, and then there is a problem. We'll get high-level professionals here with high personal integrity. That's what we're gonna get. The comparisons are, therefore, helping me with the joint work courts that are mentioned here, again it's completely different things, what are actually the courts of joint work. Some time here, the objections remind me of a time when it was a dominant social property, and it was actually a source of power from the government and at the same time a source of robbery. So, in social property, they're the natural courts of joint labor or what we're talking about. Does this mean that in America, England and other countries there are joint labor courts? Of course -- no, of course, saying something like that is completely wrong. So that kind of ideological remark, I don't think it stands here at all, and I hope I've succeeded with these explanations to clarify the essential solutions to this law. I invite you to support them, because they're in the best interest of workers, so we're not dealing with ideology. I listened here today and yesterday to the problem of connecting the internships in Serbia, as if it had occurred on March 3rd 2004, which is ridiculous. Those who open that story in 1992, when that problem began in one way or another, were there somewhere, in power or around power. And now all of a sudden it's a key problem for them. It's a key problem for all of us, but don't act like it fell out of the sky, like it fell off the march. That is the problem that has arisen, I am not talking about politics and causes, because of the decline of the economy in Serbia. We've come to that, but don't suddenly, watch out, connect the internship, let's do something about it, and we have no idea what this is about. So the problem is, and we all know, I said this government is working on it. I hope that if we're lucky, we'll have enough brains and enough resources to have that one law in this assembly to solve the problem of hundreds of thousands of people and we have a budget of how much it costs. It's not about goodwill, it's about money, it's about the minimum of 19 billion, and a maximum of 42 billion dinars to solve that problem. So we'll talk about it too. So, I call on you to let go of ideological flossules, to get out of high policy when it comes to this law. Let's really do something for this job in Serbia once, without a big pomp and a big story. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8647	I thank Minister Lalovic. I hope he helped clear up a lot of questions. She reported for the word, despite the disagreement between the Slavics and the constitutionalists, MP Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, and then, if the time is the MP of the people, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. If it is according to the Rules of Procedure, then the First People's MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and then the National MP Leila Ruždic - Trifunović, if there is time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8648	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, first of all, I am expressing my objection to this kind of commentation and attitude towards the MPs of the National Assembly, and I propose that the future chairman address all MPs in the same way as he wishes, not making any difference, and allegory, as one MP said, that he is allowed, but to conduct this session with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8649	Excuse me a moment, I respect the request of Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. She insisted on it, that this is how it is addressed, and I respect the will of our MPs how to refer and I think it is cultural, fair. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic insisted on it and I respect it and respect it, as I respect the MPs to refer to them as it says in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8650	Thank you. On behalf of the DS parliamentary group, because of the fact that Mr. Minister has finally granted us the courtesy to come and attend the debate, although we have made many amendments that he has not heard, and are seriously referring to the inability to accept this law, since we have heard that he has had scheduled meetings and with the workers of the "Second"...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8651	Excuse me, wait a minute, I didn't understand what you were talking about at all, because you have to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, to quote that member, so let's see what you're talking about, because what you're saying, I didn't realize it had anything to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8652	On the basis of Article 81. On behalf of the DS Parliamentary Group, I propose that the National Assembly make a decision to extend the work of the National Assembly, so that the minister may listen to our objections to this law, so that it can be informed and give us answers directly to each amendment, because this seems like a final word, and we are only half of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-10-0.u8653	Thank you, hold on a second. You suggested, you're done, now the Assembly will plead. But, before that, please, just slowly, I'm asking the Parliament Secretariat to clarify who is the authorised representative of the DS. Here I have the signature of Dusan Petrovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament and of the DS MP, who empowers MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic to represent, to be an authorised representative. She has no right to do so; Bojan Pajtic or Goran Svilanovic has the right to do so. We don't have that authority, so I'm asking the Secretaries of the Service during tomorrow to prepare for us to have legal authority so that the Assembly has an authorised representative. When it comes to extending the work of the Assembly, it is 18 hours and two minutes, the Assembly is unable to declare the extension of the work of the Assembly. People's MPs, we'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. Thank you very much, and I'll see you tomorrow.
