ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9894	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party considers the adoption of a set of these laws, especially a law on the protection of the environment, an opportunity to settle one issue of vital state interest, and this issue is a way of using natural resources and natural goods. The proposed text of the law as a way in which this system should be regulated has established that the competent ministry should grant authorisation for use, and that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is responsible for giving consent, so that one decision is taken, inter alia, to establish a measure of sustainable use of natural resources. And that's the theme. So -- establishing the measure of using natural resources. The Democratic Party's position is that this measure of the use of natural resources in this law should be more precise. Earlier, during yesterday, the amendment to Article 11 of the proposal to add Article 11a to Article 11a was further established, i.e. the proposal of the Democratic Party set out what the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks should do, and in order to make natural resources in the state of Serbia, that is, stone, gravel, water, ore, etc. We had strict state control and that the state would have the opportunity to determine the right measure of using natural resources, so that it would not only be the natural wealth of this generation but also our offspring. Of course, the essence of the balance-making, the design of projections of dynamic use of natural resources, the creation of cadastres and everything that should be technical support to determine what quantities we have and how nature has given us can be used in the best possible way. The proposal of the Democratic Party is that the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks is authorised and that a precise balance, i.e. conditions, scope and dynamics of the use of natural resources or goods in accordance with established balances, lists, standards and norms that we have proposed in Article 11a. Once again, I want to say that this is a unique opportunity for the state of Serbia, through this law, to establish a clear and efficient instrument. The application of which, therefore, these standards would prevent abuses that occur especially in the last decade of the HH century, and to a slightly smaller extent today, in the exploitation of stone, gravel, water and other natural resources, so that, therefore, the state, through the competent ministry and inspections under this ministry, would be able to control the use of natural resources. I call on you all together, as Parliament, on one issue that is not a matter of daily policy, but rather a matter of state strategy, to take a unique position and not to miss the opportunity to, by adopting this amendment, come to the possibility as a state to protect what is the foundation of our national wealth, which is the foundation of our country's power and the power of our nation. In the hope that we will be able to win first and foremost the Ministry and the Minister of Resolution for this proposal, and then the parliamentary majority, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9895	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Mrs. Comic's amendment? There's a word for Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9896	So, major fundamental differences, generally as far as the biggest number of amendments are concerned, and what the government has proposed in this law, are not. Articles 15a, 15b and 15v, where this is a real amendment to Article 15v and not what was read yesterday as an amendment to Article 13, and read - 15v, will simply be governed by the laws on special resources, and sustainable use - therefore we are doing a system of integrated permits. So what was in the rule book in 2002 is now a special law. We discussed it several times on Friday and Monday -- whether they needed special laws or regulations. There's something different about our opinions. But as far as Articles 15a, 15b and 15v are concerned, it is quite clear, in accordance with the European Community Directive 1996/61, we are going on an integrated permit. It includes conditions and measures for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods, and this is the law on which the debate is concluded both in principle and in particular. The 15g solution is contained in Article 27. Proposal for a law but resolution 15d in Article 28. It's a bill of law. The government considers that the 15j solution is contrary to the omnibus law, and as far as the 15e solution is concerned, it is contained in Article 12. It's a bill of law. We believe that the vast majority of this matter has already been dealt with in law, and I call on all the MPs to read the amendments, read the government's explanation, and, regardless of the party differences, take a position. I'm glad I heard something different from yesterday's opinion. Yesterday we all said that a knife and a cake shouldn't be in the same hands if memory doesn't cheat on me. We have now heard the view that the Ministry of Environmental Protection should issue permits and there is a conceptal difference. I think that around the very text in Amendment 15 that is covered by these and other laws is very little different, but the concept of whether or not the knife and the cake should be in the same hands is very different. We don't think they should be. Obviously, there is a different concept that is completely legitimate, but the government disagrees with that concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9897	The Committee on Environmental Protection has tabled an amendment to Article 15. Since the proposing representative has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that seven new titles and members be added after article 15. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9898	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS Group of MPs – Boris Tadic has submitted an amendment to add seven new titles and members after Article 15, which reads: "Request for the authorisation of sustainable use". Of course, I'm not gonna read the amendments. I'm just gonna read the headlines. Then, Article 15b in front of which the title stands – Content of the sustainable use permit. Article 15v ahead of which is the title – Review and termination of validity and withdrawal of the sustainable use permit. Article 15g with the title – Permission for collection, i.e. use and transport of certain species of wild flora and fauna. Article 15d — Registrar of licences issued. Article 15ð – Authorization of autonomous province and unit of local self-government. Article 15e – Limitation of the scope of use. The idea of DS is that this law should not only protect the environment and prevent it from being protected, but also ensure that natural resources are managed by the members of the law under this law. We have to admit that a number of members of this law contain a part of this idea, but we sincerely and honestly want to improve this law and therefore intervened with this number of amendments. It's nice to hear from Mr. Minister that with this set of amendments concerning the addition of a number of members after Article 15, he is essentially in agreement and that they are more precisely, than provided for in Article 15, defining the issue of permits. That is why I see no reason why these amendments should not be adopted, if the Government agrees with the concept that follows these amendments that we have submitted. I get the impression we're in something and we don't understand each other. We believe that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, given the circumstances, is now called the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, but we believe that it should also take care of natural resources. But completely natural resources and to prescribe conditions for the use of natural resources. Those involved in the exploitation, i.e. a resort or sectoral ministry, should give permission to use. That's just the difference between our attitudes. It's my personal impression that it's about one misunderstanding. For this reason, I think that by adopting these two amendments and these articles that represent the supplement, we would essentially better achieve a function, not only of protection but of managing our natural resources and achieve what I am confident is the common intention of providing conditions for sustainable development. For this reason, I call on honourable colleagues and fellow MPs to support these two amendments and, of course, a whole set of amendments proposed by the DS, as this defends one concept. I think the concept offered by this law represents one step. Someone might say small, and we think it's significant. That's not what this is about. The word is that we are really getting a quality law to protect our resources, because we also said in a plenary debate that there are a lot of problems in the fact that our resources are exploited and most often very harsh. We can't let that happen, because it's our common good that we need to leave for generations to come, and we need to ensure what we all stand for, and that's sustainable development. In the end, I call on everyone to vote for these amendments, and I hope that the government will still support the amendments and suggest that the assembly majority vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9899	Anyone else want to talk about Mrs. Comic's amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9900	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I think Mr. Zivkovic said about what the DS wants with these amendments. These seven members are meant to operate on how to...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9901	Excuse me, Mr. Radosavlevich. I'm not going to stand for any throws, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let the MP speak. Here you go, Mr. Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9902	Thank you. So, from the level of that declarative part, as the bill says, these amendments, first of all, we want to determine how many natural resources can be used, how many natural resources can be used, a plan to use natural resources or goods. The permit should represent the possibility that because some resources have very little, e.g. groundwater at certain locations, to limit their use in that part. The essence of our amendments is to obtain from the ministry the ability to control how much gravel is used, how much rock is dug in the quarry, to prohibit and punish, question, or withdraw certain permits. Yesterday, by replacing thesis, the minister tried to explain how this law specifically separates itself, which he said earlier, a knife from a cake. We don't think this law has been precise, so that's exactly why we want to make amendments a clear division in that section of jurisdiction itself. Those who use the resources and the ministry that licenses on the economic principle should not be in control of that inspection. So whether it's a mining business, whether it's a forest, water industry, but rather an inspection that needs to take care of the resources and their sustainability above all. It's that environmental inspection. We believe that the amendments are actually an improvement in the existing text. That's what we were saying in the principle debate, that's what these amendments are specifically about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9903	Anyone else want to talk about Mrs. Comic's amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9904	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members, I would like to step up the request to accept this amendment to add seven new titles and members after Article 15, which regulate "the application for a sustainable use permit". What's this about? To translate into a language that is more understandable to Serbian citizens. This amendment proposes the introduction of a licence. Here, in fact, the requirements for issuing a sustainable use permit are to be contained. It is proposed to introduce a permit for sustainable use of resources, therefore, written paper, on the way, whether or not a stone can be removed from the quarry; whether and how much forest can be cut; whether and how much fish or caviar can be fished; whether or not or how it can be extracted; whether and how much ground and mineral waters can be exhausted? By the way, does someone not accept these amendments just protect that some think that exploitation rights are being bought? Do you, how and how can you extract gravel without disrupting the weeds of our rivers? The bill promoter, we also heard this in response from the resolute minister yesterday, has defined himself as declarative for the preservation of natural resources, but has not prescribed how. This permit would just be an instrument to operate on it. Therefore, without the adoption of this amendment, the applicable Law on concessions remains without rules on how natural resources can be granted under concession. Therefore, this amendment proposes a permit and a way of obtaining a licence for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods. Let me further underline the importance of this permit and this amendment to the natural goods. Without the prescribed permission, which gives the conditions of environmentally sustainable use of natural goods, we would miss the possibility of regulating the situation in our national parks, the biosphere reserve, such as Golia, other protected natural goods: Obedska Bar, Stara Planina, Deliblatska pescara, etc. Dear MPs, we are wondering who is not responsible for accepting this DS-Boris Tadic amendment. Surely not for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9905	Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9906	Since I have already discussed both amendments to Article 15, I have said what the Government is thinking and what the Government stands for. I said that on Friday, I said yesterday, all the future laws that will be passed, regardless of the area, if they have any kind of interaction or mutual fact, let me say in Serbian, with the environment, will be done and must respect the principles contained in this law. That's the first one. Secondly, I urge all MPs to read the stenographic notes from today's session of the Assembly and to see what the MPs of the opposition, who spoke before me, have advocated. You'll see contradictions. Some say this ministry, in charge of environmental affairs, should issue permits, and others say consent is fine. I must say, I agree with what the esteemed Mr. Professor said. Zivkovic. I remain in it and the government remains in it that there is no big difference. These solutions are contained in other members. I will not use big words, the opposition has used them in the previous days, but since the esteemed Mr. Radosavljevic mentioned a replacement of thesis. Yesterday, he spoke of the need for rules to be governed by areas now governed by laws. I will now read you a letter from 7.4.2003, signed by former Minister Ms. Mihajlov to Mr. Slavko Bogdanovic. The subject matter is: objections to the working text of the Regulation on environmental impact assessment and the rules on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. Point 2) says, "The Rules of Procedures, on the one hand, regulate issues that cannot be regulated by the Regulation, but only by the law." So much for the rules and the law and even what was once thought about editing these matter by regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9907	Anyone else on Mrs. Comic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above article 21. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 21a be added after article 21. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9908	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to add a new title after Article 21, which reads: "The Natural Resources Institution", and Article 21a. Since he's a short member and there's only one addition, let me read it. Therefore, Article 21a reads: "To protect the missing natural resources and geospace continents that are important for the environment, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for the territory of the Autonomous Region and the Executive Greater Autonomous Area, brings a plan of limited use, providing conditions for the gradual substitution of natural resources and materials (sand, sand, decorative stone, drinking water, quality wood, clay, etc.) with appropriate secondary raw materials from the recycling process or other natural raw materials and materials of appropriate technical, physical and chemical and other characteristics (stone granules, concrete, concrete iron, rubber, technical water, technical wood, composite materials and other)." So, in line with the concept that we want to affirm here and for which we are looking for the support of the honourable Members of Parliament, and as far as the complete management of natural resources is concerned, we have proposed this member. He's part of the same concept. We believe that this amendment is very important and that it supports, among other things, the development of energy. We passed the Energy Act a few months ago. There are members who are very well aware of the use of natural resources, among other things, the use of renewable sources and the insistence on modern technologies, which also contributes to a more rational use of our natural resources, and this means less pollution, as well as the creation of conditions for sustainable development. So we're already creating a single base in laws that will ensure that the concept is realised, whose part should be represented and the law that we hope to adopt. Of course, as I said on Friday, our relationship with the Law on the Protection of the Environment will also depend on the relationship of MPs with our amendments. We believe that the largest number of these amendments deserve support, because this is how we protect the values that are common.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9910	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the faction of Boris Tadic in the DS has once again shown that he cannot read the law. This amendment is completely unnecessary, but like most other failures that they made yesterday, showing that they do not know chemistry, Serbian language, original autochtony, integrity, integration, means mathematics. They did not read Article 12 of the Law, which defines the existence of a strategic document -- a national strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods. Article 12(7) states that the conditions for the gradual substitution of natural resources, which is referred to in the amendment to Article 21 and the preceding paragraph, are defined here: "If the data on the implementation of the National Strategy finds that the use of natural resources significantly endangers the natural balance of ecosystems, the Government may, on a proposal from the Ministry of Environmental Protection or other Ministry, temporarily limit the use of natural values in a given area". So, Article 12. The environmental law, which will be adopted in this assembly, defines this area and the amendment to Article 21 is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9911	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9912	The 27th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group and proposed, therefore, Article 27 concerns the protection and use of flora and fauna, to delete Article 3 of this Article. Article 4 is amended as follows: "Protection and protection of animals, pets, are regulated by a special law". We suggested this because citizens of all our cities know what the problem is with stray dogs. There is a need to regulate the attitude towards pets by law, which is especially likely to be proposed in this assembly, and will be proposed by the DS parliamentary group, if not by the Government, because we think it is necessary that these apply to offices, because until now, what has been undertaken in large cities on the subject of strays has proved to be quite inefficient. We believe that access should be changed and, as a starting point, a law is necessary to keep pets in order to gradually achieve this by reducing the number of strays, because we think it's a direct relationship. The law on whose legal basis we propose this amendment will make it easy to regulate these relations afterwards. We have proposed an amendment to Article 119, which requires that we delete ourselves in that amendment, so that these two amendments are fully attached to us and we assume that if the government looks at them like this, they will adopt them. I think by adopting these amendments, it will be for the benefit of Serbia's citizens' better lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9913	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9914	It is not at all disputed, I mean the area of protection and the protection of pets, it should be regulated by a special law, and therefore there is a Article 10 in this law, where other laws allow for environmental protection to be regulated. Article 10. We believe that this is covered, it would certainly be welcome for the DS parliamentary group to come out with the proposal, because there are a lot of work ahead of us, and this is a common country and we should work together. However, there is a problem with the link between this amendment and the amendment to Article 119. In fact, Article 119 refers to violations, and there is no way of sanctioning any violations if it is not previously governed by law. So, the DS is looking for, or a parliamentary group is asking to erase the position and say, it's forbidden to destroy, rip and otherwise devastate the wild flora, or destroy and destroy its habitats. So that's the proposal, or part of this amendment, and that's why we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9915	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9916	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I didn't think I was answering on this amendment, but in a way I was irritated by the reporting of my previous colleague, I think he's from the G17 Plus Group. So, we discussed here yesterday for a more accurate translation of the English word - integral (integral), not integral (integrated) as current Minister Popovic said yesterday. So, according to Vujaklia, what it means to integrate and what it means to integrate, and I would not now repeat those explanations, and here it is fully accessible to the environment and listening to who better translates from English, if we were now in a position to correct the amendment, we would demand that there be a comprehensive control and prevention of pollution, so that it would be translated into Serbian. This is the answer to the gentleman. Now we're talking about this amendment, and I'm going to look back at the exhibit, so in Article 29, "dangerous matter" is replaced by "chemicals" in the corresponding decline. This amendment complies with the European Union directives. I will now be really forced to explain why we have submitted this amendment, i.e. MP Gordana Comic, on behalf of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. So the definition of "dangerous substances" is not in line with Directives 67/548 or 92/32, where exactly what are dangerous substances and preparations are defined. It is also mentioned that dangerous substances are chemicals, and nowhere is it explained what chemicals are. The chemicals are substances and preparations, and then the substances are elements or compounds with additives, etc., and the preparations are mixtures of substances. Furthermore, it is necessary to explain what dangerous substances and preparations and chemicals are, to list all categories, hazards and to explain how they are written above in those Directives. So it is not what the representative of the G17 Group said about this speaker, and I ask that this amendment be accepted to the 29th parliamentary group DS - Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9917	The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9918	Dear colleague Stanimirovic, besides being a G17 plus MP, I am also a chemist. Since you say in this article that the word "hazardous matter" should be replaced by the word "chemicals" and you are referring to some directives, I will tell you that these directives have long been out of use and that for reasons of not accepting this amendment we are calling for a directive of the European Union, so EZ 96/92 on industrial disasters, where these definitions are precisely implemented. For your information, the chemical is also sodium chloride, known as the kitchen salt and as calcium chloride, and sugar, and the MP group DS has great experience in working with sugar. So, chemicals and water, but dangerous chemicals are something else. Water can be lethal if you drink 12 liters in an hour, but here you think of some much more dangerous chemicals and we'll stay at this finding - dangerous matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9919	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Miloja Savic submitted to the 34th amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9920	Mr. Minister, regarding Article 36, we want first of all to decidently stand, not only to imply fishing and hunting. So, first of all, we're making an effort to solve the problems of a Balkan bird type, and I want to remind you that exports, including protected birds, were until half of 2003 in the jurisdiction of the federal state and that the then federal government, which was at the border, had hired both numbers and letters of zero environmental inspectors to control it. We cannot say that the previous government was responsible for this, since it was a very short period of time after the government had, but things certainly started to change after that. We want this amendment simply to make it clear, to leave room for the current ministry and the current government to really do their job the way it should be done and to allow this amendment first and foremost to solve this problem systemically. To take the opportunity, the minister mentioned earlier, I don't want to replicate, but once again I want to define a clear position of the Democratic Party on the issues we mentioned half an hour ago. We insist that the ministry gives permission on the economic principle, but also not to be in control of any inspection. This is what we consider to be a fundamental problem and as a fundamental regret and we clearly differ around these concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9921	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9922	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, Parliamentarian Gordana Comic has submitted an amendment to add to Article 38, which reads: "Organizations that have an assessment of the dangers of accidents do not have to work new unless they had an extension of capacity or other changes of importance". This amendment would avoid further administration and contribute to the efficiency of building a system for environmental protection. I don't want to take any more time around this amendment, just to tell Mr. Zivadinović as a chemist, we didn't really know that salt and sugar are so much dangerous stuff, but really sugar can be a very dangerous substance since it probably grew to Mr. Labus when he had to receive these from Apurna in his house, so there was a whole mix-up about privatizing "The Book of Milos". How dangerous the sugar is to testify that it is because of this sugar, and it is not entirely defined the role of Mr Labus, who was then Minister of Economic Relations with abroad at the federal level when it was happening, that, let's say because of that sugar, the heart attack was also experienced by the President of the Securities Commission, Mr. Stimac. Indeed, sugar can be a very dangerous substance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9923	Apurna doesn't make sugar, as far as I know. They do other things. The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9924	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Minister, respected counterpart Stanimirovic, a faction of Boris Tadic in the Democratic Party, is making a mistake again. We cannot accept the amendment for a number of reasons, and one of these is that the organisations that are doing the accident assessment draw up an accident protection plan that is updated or revised at least every three years. In accordance with changes in work, business, technology or activity, they are required to revise the safety report at least every five years. It's clear you haven't read the law again. No one can get a life-long impact assessment and then change their way of doing business and technology. We won't let that happen. Every three years, and if there is a need, we will change this more often to protect Serbia's citizens. Once again to remind you, you didn't listen to what I was talking about. The previous amendment referred to the definition of chemical and hazardous matter. I didn't say salt and sugar were dangerous substances. Maybe they were dangerous to you. Mr. Labus wasn't involved in this, and it's rude to make fun of Mr. Stimec's health, because the man was in pre-infarct condition a few days ago. I'd remind you they're in that so-called. The affairs involved some of your people, so Mr. Stanimirovic will be the survey committee on all this and we will determine the actual state of affairs. What I can say is that Professor Labus never took part in the sale of the company for three euros, several sugars that you sold. During his government and the government of this coalition in Serbia, nothing will be sold for three euros, but will experience its right price, whether at auction or in tender, and we will try to protect what is Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9925	The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9926	I thank Mr. Zivadinović. I was misread, and the gentleman answered by amendment, as far as I could tell. So, I thank Mr. Zivadinović, only when he says - we will not accept it, I did not know that Mr. Zivadinović was a member of the government. I could accept that from Mr Popovic as minister, to come out and say - we as Government do not accept this amendment. I thought Mr. Zivadinovic was just like us, a national MP in the Serbian Parliament, not the government. All in all, as far as I understand Mr. Zivadinović's exposure, and the sugar is kind of sweeter when it softens with "Knjiz Milos".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9927	First, Mr. Zivadinovic, as an authorised representative of G17 plus, has the right to say he will not accept, referring to the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and that is quite clear. Every authorised representative has the right to say whether he accepts something or not. If the minister accepted it would be an integral part of the law, and here is the vote on the amendment. The second thing, of course, when it comes to sugar and other things, we're going to discuss it with another cause, and the Gorazdevec, the same thing that the director has changed, and this is about environmental law. I ask you to go back to that law, and about sugar, Spence and the rest. The word is made by MP Ivan Zivadinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9928	Mr. Stanimirovic keeps referring to some things about sugar and water. I'll take you to coffee later when we're done with this debate, but I'd like to meet this esteemed home with some other things. When I told you, I meant the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Stanimirovic, if you know the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, you know that the Government is elected by the National Assembly and that this home stands above the Government on many issues. That's why I'm telling you. This house was supposed to pass a law on the National Assembly and I hope it will be brought soon, and then the citizens of Serbia will know where the right place of the Serbian Parliament is in the country's political system. Of course, if the Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the law, in some form that is acceptable to it, Serbia will finally have its own system. That's what we miss. Now I'd like to look back on the problem we're dealing with these days. Mr. Stanimirović, the lady who wrote you the amendments, not Mrs. Komic, since she is now in Paris, has more work to do than the Parliament's work, I mean Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov. She asked for these amendments to return to the ministry the right to grant permits to use natural resources. We won't let that happen, we National Assembly. Why? Because one man can't decide who gets the right to use mineral water, as it was done in the last term. So Mr Stanimirovic, outgoing minister on February 3, 2004, and on February 25, 2004, and on January 15, 2004, and then on January 12, 2003, there are some other solutions, giving a solution to a particular company in Arandelovac to exploit 0.42 liters per second of mineral water, etc. That's the solution. I'm sorry that the cameras are up there, not here on the side so I can show it, but that's another way to minimize the work of the Assembly, because you're putting the cameras above. It was inherited from the previous congregation. Then we have a 12th-January solution seduced here all where the lady gives 13.5 liters per second, multiply it by 48,600 and you'll see how much that is during the day. A certain firm from Debtz, it was signed, so the Belgrade firm is given 0.9 liters per second 15.01. for exploitation. So the government doesn't have any part in it, and that's the Zivkovic government, so it's given to some firm in Mionica 60 liters per second times 48,600, so the firm in Kladova is given five liters per second the right to exploit, so the companies in White Palanca 15 liters per second. I'm afraid, Mr. Stanimirovic, that not only did hectolitres leave Serbia, we could have given Serbia this water, and how many states had received money from all of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9929	The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9930	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 42 following Article 2, a new position 3 is added, which reads: "The Autonomous Province's Autonomous Order brings an act on the introduction of special measures if pollution is limited to the territory of the province". Item 3 is replaced by the following: This amendment complies with the applicable rules on the confidence of certain matters of the province. The amendment was also signed by MP Gordana Comic on behalf of DS – Boris Tadic, as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and signed and wrote in co-operation with colleagues from the parliamentary club. We just heard that Mr. Zivadinović is not the Government, but the National Assembly. The National Assembly is me, and whether Mrs. Komic has a lot of work to do in Paris or not, that's her business. I want to thank you for being able to hear a little bit more about the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Labus in the sugar affair in the "Knjiza Miloš" affair, and as far as I've seen in Masariko now, when I've parked the car, waiting for the workers of the "Yugomedia", they're looking for some of their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9931	National MP Ivan Zivadinović. The minister gives priority to the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently my colleague Stanimirovic did not listen to me again. I never said the National Assembly, but I was speaking to me from the National Assembly. Of course we're from the National Assembly, i.e. The ruling majority will not accept this amendment because it has nothing to do with this law. As for the insinuations you bring here, Mr Miroljub Labus has also done some useful things for Serbia in the past government when he worked for the federal government, as well as in the current government, Mr Stanimirovic. The write-off to the Paris Club that Labus did and what Mladjan Dinkic did this year to the London Club is something that you and your team can only dream about. Mr. Miroljub Labus was not involved in these affairs, and I am now responsible in front of everyone, and we are not going to do these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9933	Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, both this and the next amendment that the government does not accept, does not accept for one simple reason, because it is contrary to the Omnibus Law, whatever the DSS thinks of it, and doesn't think of anything well, simply they are inconclusive, because they are hairing the Omnibus Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9935	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9936	Dear fellow Members of the People, Article 44 is amended and reads: "The organisations are encouraged to apply the requirements of the EMAS regulation or ISO 14001 standards on a voluntary basis to improve their impact in the environmental protection system". The whole chapter of the bill needs to be substantially amended. The draft law calls for the 1993 EMAS regulation, which has been substantially amended in 2001, and in this respect the whole chapter needs to be brought into line with the EU Directive. In Article 44, as proposed, data are contained that can lead the organization into error. The purpose of this article may be as set out in the Directive, recommendations for participation in EMAS. What's EMAS? EMAS is an EU eco-management and verification system. So EMAS is more than the ISO standard of 14000. EMAS is a voluntary scheme, a system for organisations willing to commit to assessing and improving its functioning from the point of view of environmental criteria. The aims of the EU eco-management system are to promote continuous improvements, impacts, activities of organisations in the environment. It's done in different ways. Through the establishment and implementation of the environmental management system by organisations, through systematic, objective and periodic impact assessments of such systems, as described by Annex 1 to the EMAS rule. By way of rules on public information on the results of such activities in the environment and the opening of dialogues with the public and other stakeholders, and through the active involvement of employees in the organisation and training needed to make possible active participation in the establishment and implementation of a system of environmental management by organisations, as defined by Annex 1 to EMAS rules. It is a practice for EMAS to be introduced into law only when the country becomes a full member of the EU. Of course, companies or organisations should be encouraged in the principle of applying the requirements of EMAS regulation or ISO 14001 EM standards on a voluntary basis to improve this impact. It is not clear how the minister will prescribe an EMAS sign when it is prescribed for EU countries, and many other things are unclear. Worst of all, organisations are doing it because of certain benefits on the market, but they will be deceived because the ministry cannot give them this EMAS sign as long as we are not members of the EU. With our set of amendments, we tried to propose a transitional and preparatory phase through the national EMAS, which would gradually adapt our companies to EU standards. I come from a town that's a big food factory. I've already said that we have this problem of the great Back Channel, whose pollution is enormous and it's really hard when a city carries a halo of polluted environment, and at the same time it's a huge food producer. It is enough that this huge largest septic cave of Europe flows past Vrbaska Vitala, so that they cannot get ISO standard 14000 and export abroad, and that their capacities are dimensioned for far greater production than those of our narrow market. So we should go out and try to help these factories in the best possible way, to prepare for production in one reasonable time that would allow exports to both the Western European market and the world. It's the same with the previous amendment. It's just, let's say, when we were talking about sugar and vervain sugar, which releases enormous amounts of steam during the campaign and pushes towards Vienna, we had to do it a couple of times, actually every year, to catch fish in that triangle, over there at Bačka Gradista, and to save it from the deaths, because it's really one of the huge problems. I call on you to accept this amendment by the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9937	Thank you. The word has Minister Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9938	Thank you. I report only once on all the amendments the Serbian government has rejected regarding the "EMAS" system. And, more or less, the reason why the government rejects them has already been given by Mr. Stanimirovic, and I am grateful to him for that, while in Article 44, the minister is not mentioned anywhere that anything is prescribed. It is clear that "EMAS" is the European Union system. JUS ISO 14.001 is a standard lighter than the "EMAS" system and can be de facto taken as a national "EMAS". "EMAS" prescribes, not only for Serbia but also for members of the European Union, that national organisations are evaluated and registered and assessors are domestic -- in accordance with the "EMAS" standard directive. Therefore, only implementation of this Directive is monitored at national level. "EMAS" is a sign that can only be obtained on a voluntary basis. Why and what does it serve? Well, very simply, to those who are able to get it opens in many ways the door of business in the European Union. So there cannot be a national sign, because the European Union prescribes that it is a sign in line with EU standards. Yes, it is applied in the European Union. It can also be applied in countries outside. Those who qualify on a voluntary basis get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9939	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9940	In this set of amendments, I will only report this time, because after that, there will be no point in reporting and explaining the amendments. I said it when I explained the previous amendment. As for Article 45, the "EMAS system" is replaced by the words "the national system of EMAS". I gave an explanation earlier when I explained the previous amendment. Article 45. The bill is contrary to the EMAS. One option may be to overcome this problem of the non-compliance of this law with the European Union to introduce the national EMAS instead of the EMAS system. This as a preparatory instrument, when we become full members of the European Union and accept the "EMAS" system of the EU. Therefore, this whole chapter relating to the environmental management system, Art. In 44 to 50, there is a restriction on the non-understanding of EU rules, the Counsil Regulation 1836-93 and the entire set of accompanying regulations, which are some very important measures contrary to this very important EU regulation. For example, the minister cannot prescribe the appearance of the "EMAS" sign in Article 50, when it is prescribed by an EU document for EU member states, and "the Commission manages the register of issued licences in the EU and puts them on display".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9941	There's a word for Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9942	I'm not going to read the directive, and I promised not to answer it, but I have to, from 1993. I quote directive EC 2001/711, so from 2001: "The EMAS sign is unique". Therefore, if Serbia is not an EU member, someone has to formally implement the mark in national legislation, someone has to formally prescribe the same sign in national legislation, because the apriors of the EU directive do not apply to Serbia, as Serbia is not an EU member. It's a very simple explanation, which is why the minister has to do it strictly formally. I think we've cleared the issue of national EMAS. The EMAS sign is unique. There can't be a national EMAS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9943	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is an ecological sign, so I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 53. In fact, we, Mr. Minister, intended to define more precisely the concept of an ecological sign and, by adding practically three new attitudes, to improve this text of the law. I suggested adding a new position in Article 53 which will replace the existing first and which will read: "The aim of ecological labelling of environmental protection is achieved by improving consumer awareness of the environmental consequences that individual products cause and by directing consumers to organic products and technologies". So that attitude would be the first, and so far it would become attitude 2. Therefore, after the second attitude, a new one would read: "The product packaging must be entered in the reasons for which the ecological sign is assigned". Finally, after the fourth, they would add the fifth position, which reads: "Determination of organic products, processes and services is based on ecological objectives according to production, or commodity groups. These objectives are: 1) closed production cycle from raw materials to final product; 2) saving energy with increased efficiency and use of renewable energy sources; 3) improving the quality of products and services; 4) improving production processes and reducing emissions of harmful and dangerous substances; and 5) reducing waste volume and others." So the ecological marking in this way would be defined by the strict criteria, which we and as a party have given through this concept. I think your argument that, in this way, the improvement of a member in 53rd through these three new attitudes -- Article 53 was too widespread, unacceptable, because what we did not stand in law and what we wanted to do with this amendment would certainly not be an extra one. And in order not to be, but to be clear, especially through the first and fifth attitudes, define what an ecological sign is and therefore I recommend that you accept this amendment to the SRS. He doesn't destroy your concept of law, which we have a grudge on, and what we have brought to debate during the principle debate, or through these other amendments that you said you didn't want to accept. But this is indeed one professional and quality improvement of the law, and I therefore recommend, as well as to the MPs, that in the day of voting, you accept the amendment to Article 53 of the Law when it comes to the ecological sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9945	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Articles 53 and 54. The bill is defined as an ecological sign. In Article 53, it is further explained what the ecological indication can be, that it is intended to produce, or producers that use clean technologies and products of products that will be organically clean. It is also intended for processes and services that pollute the environment less. Article 54 explains how to assign and subtract an ecological sign. This is how a defined ecological sign represents itself, both its purpose and its purpose. I don't see what the function of even introducing an ecological sign in this way in this bill. The eco-label must not be its own purpose and purpose. There must be some other consequences for this country and society, or society, that is, it has to distract someone, why someone would even want to get an ecological sign on this proposal. There is no motive for any producer or consumer. Mechanisms must be envisaged to motivate both manufacturers and consumers. Manufacturers on the production of such organic products and consumers on consumption, i.e. buying these products. It is true that Article 101 speaks of economic incentives and it is said that some economic incentives can be applied in terms of tax cuts or customs or other opportunities, to stimulate producers and consumers. I think there's a little more concrete here to predict these measures. What are the measures that these producers and consumers, or primarily producers who receive the ecological sign, will have, a material motive to deal with such production and to produce such products. And finally, consumers are motivated to buy these products to a little bit affirm their production and improve, and thus we have environmental effects in which we are located. I think we should work this out a little more concretely and explain and give a more concrete proposal to encourage manufacturers and consumers to use the eco-label as much as possible, i.e. to be used in Serbia. This is a proposal from the government, so it's not just a proposal from this ministry, it's a government. The government should work this out a little more specifically, i.e. this ministry, along with the Ministry of Finance, to establish concrete measures and propose them. It doesn't go into this law, that it goes into the tax law, but that we have these complete measures, and that it doesn't stay on a mere story that won't have any concrete effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9947	A member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to add a sentence in Article 57(1): "The most strictly prohibiting imports, storage and transport of nuclear waste in the Republic of Serbia, as well as transit of it through the territory of the Republic of Serbia." I think it's very important that nuclear waste is specifically mentioned in the law. Since it happens that in Serbia there is often a waste load wandering Serbia, so I think we should legally regulate this category of hazardous waste. Since Article 57, when it comes to hazardous waste, there is one sentence that reads – imports of hazardous waste are prohibited and nothing more. In Serbia, we have a problem with domestic nuclear waste, as well as contaminated resources used in medicine and the production of certain technological processes. According to the government, the ban was regulated by the 1996 Law on protection against ionic radiation and brought to SRJ level. Since this bill literally combines all the legal solutions that have been subsequently passed over the past ten years, I believe it is important that nuclear waste be particularly highlighted in this article of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9949	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9950	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, I am reporting for this amendment and I think you should accept it as it has been proposed by the SRS representative in the amended form. I have to support this by example, and I am in charge of the citizens of Priboi, Nova Varosha, Prepolje and beyond, and to present the problem that is present in our fields. There's a storage facility in our area, it's thought to have, it's not proven, because it's probably someone who does or doesn't care to disclose it, so I'm here to bring up a problem of the hill called Kukanj. It is located on the Bistrica, at the intersection of the road Priboj-Prijepolje-Nova Varoš. It's about a distance of approximately 10 kilometers, and in those areas maybe a decade ago or something more, we have a huge number of cancerous diseases. We were already on one committee talking about it. Confirmation that this area is exposed to these cancerous radiations and diseases can be given by Mr. Luna, because his doctoral dissertation is currently referring to that area, as well as to the study of the area. I'm sorry he's not here to confirm that. There's nothing to ask, maybe I'm going off topic a little bit, I'm not going off topic, but in the context of this amendment, I'm saying that there's nothing more to ask for, but for those people downstairs to turn around and explain exactly what's in that hill, which instead of producing oxygen, is producing nuclear radiation. So much material was extracted from that hill that a huge train station of Bistrica was built, day and night for ten years and more, trucks came out. The passage is located to the cave high and above the Prepolje. It's a huge space, and there's no telling what's coming in, and it's been brought in at night with some kind of enigmatic vehicles that don't look like trucks or tanks. People are so scared. They have reason, because just symbolically this hill of Cuckoos has brought this room of moaning. Griefing for the dead is more and more than cancerous illnesses. I want to ask you to accept this amendment and that no part of our Republic be threatened like that area around Bistrica and Preyboy. In that space, unfortunately, at a distance of 200 metres, NATO dropped dozens of bombs with impoverished uranium and shot three bridges. So, there's an additional increase in radio activity in those areas. Secondly, the lake spreads here and the lake is affected by some hot water, and fishing is carried out intensively in these areas and people are eating that fish. Thirdly, there are frequent stains of chocolate on the surface of the lake and we present it as a flowering algae. However, it is all from the womb of that hill called Kukanj. Finally, now I'm going to say that on the Ecology Committee Mr. Minister was interested in that, and I thank him, he came out after me and I thank him for letting himself go out into the hallway and asking me to write a letter. I gave a written memo as a member of the Pryboy Municipal Council and was sent to the Ministry. I would ask you only, for the sake of the public and for the sake of peace in these municipalities, to give one answer and to make it public, for everyone to know about it. If it is, it is, and if it isn't, that at least the citizens are dying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9951	Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9952	So what is the fact, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that this ideological solution, which Mr. Radisa Ilic proposes, already exists in federal law. So it also applies to Serbia. In the new law, which will be passed at a republican level and which will be linked to the protection against ionising radiation, one or more similar solutions, so this kind of solution will be present. It's just that it's already covered by federal law and there's no need for legal solutions to double at this point. As for the problem Mr. Penezic was talking about, the inspection was there several times after our conversation. No increase in radioactivity was established. Here, for peace's sake, we can send another inspection. But there really isn't any single material evidence that anything radioactive has ever been stored in that location. As for the poored uranium, it has been mentioned several times in the debate in principle. There are four locations in Serbia's territory, outside Kosovo and Metohija. All four locations are in the southeast of the Republic of Serbia. When I say southeast, I mean that part around Vranj. Two of those four locations are cleared, and the cleaning starts next year. We are doing this exclusively from the money of government officials from Serbia. There was no use of impoverished uranium during NATO bombing, in the area from which you are from.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9953	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9954	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, some of the issues raised regarding this amendment are being raised by other committees and other ministries at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. If I don't overstep what I don't want, I'll tell Mr. Penezic a few sentences about this when I get off this phone. Sometimes a good intention can do a bad service, even though the one involved did not have that intention. So there are several other committees and several other ministries that can provide precise answers to the questions asked here by Mr Penezic. With that in mind, it would be good for all MPs to have that in mind when such issues are being delegated and when the sessions are public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9955	Replica, MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9956	Mr. Luna has arrived, and he could confirm what I just said. I don't think it's a used pay phone, and I don't think Mr. Baralic thought I deliberately abused her. I just want to say that I speak here in the interest of the citizens. Really, if it's of some national importance, or state secret, military secret or whatever, let it be said it's a military secret and no one will touch it. But the trucks came in day and night and went to other exits. They probably left something behind, didn't buy anything. That material that is dug, it has been deposited at the dump, or at the Bistrica station, and something has been brought in. Even a small hydropower plant was built up there. Something's suspicious, people are suspicious, they're gathering and they can't believe it. If a convincing solution can be found, if the citizens will come to their senses, I would ask you to sleep peacefully. I mentioned this not for party or pre-election purposes, but I also mentioned it and I wouldn't talk about it. But the citizens put me in charge, and I have to say it here. So I'll never abuse the pay phone, I'll just speak in the interest of the citizens. What they tell me, I'll tell you, and you see further which committee is in charge, which is not, to whom it belongs. Somebody give an answer. I didn't say that this committee, or the minister, gave that answer. Let whoever wants to, but we have more committees, more ministries, and someone has to know. The hill's been dug up, something's been put on, and what's that? If that's nuclear waste, I'd like to ask, if I may, Mr. Lune to say something about this cancerous disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9957	National MP Mijailovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9958	I don't know exactly what my colleague Penezic mentioned me in what context.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9959	Mr. Mijailovich, he mentioned you in a nice context, so you have no right to a replica, but here you go, say what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9960	Since it's a pleasure region, the Zlatibor region, I have to say that the coastal part of Prepolje, especially from Priboj, in that area where he referred to a colleague that there might be nuclear waste, which I don't know whether exists or not. In any case, the competent authorities should examine it, but an increased number of cancers from that region are certainly coming. First of all, the highest number is haematological disease. Haematological diseases, malignancies, often occur where radiation is increased, whether soil or vice versa, if there isn't anything, nuclear waste or something like that, I can't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9961	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9962	The chairman is in a hurry, and I'm going to try to listen to him and point out that I'm happy to come to the Parliament, and I'm all for "speakers." On Article 57, paragraph 5, after saying "expert" we suggested adding the words "experienced and accredited". So we're asking that measuring the work of an accredited laboratory and that only from a group of accredited laboratories can the minister empower the laboratory for certain measurements. If we don't have this, otherwise we can expect the continuation of one sad practice and situation to be treated, first of all, as relatively. This is where we have to look at the current state of the institutions. So, I mean institutions that monitor, which are authorized by law. They simply do not have adequate domestic accreditations, and there is no need to waste words about international ones. So measuring isn't enough just to be professional, it's necessary to have a certain experience. There should be certain accreditations, which is important for all our citizens, because in this way they will know exactly what kind of water we drink, what air we breathe, as well as the fact that the data above all are recognised by international institutions. If the law does not ensure that measurements are done by laboratories that we trust, meaning, above all, professional and accredited, then we are building a system of possibilities for the ministry to choose or the minister by some of its powers, according to some of its criteria, normally, they will charge for it, and the benefits of all this will not be borne by the citizens. So we think that the solution we have proposed with the amendment is far better than in the draft text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9963	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9964	Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot cut the amendment. So, the amendment requires after the word "expert" to add the words "experienced and accredited". If the word "professional" was replaced with the word "accredited", it would be more than acceptable, but introducing the word "expert and accredited", because, you know, accreditation means you have something to work with and someone has to work with, and that someone has to have experience. So it says "expert and experienced and accredited" yes, it's really too much. An acceptable amendment would be that instead of "experienced", the word "accredited", and if DS representatives had been at the debate on amendments on the resolution committee for the last ten minutes when they were in the first hour and 50 minutes, I confess, then they would have heard that this is how we discussed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9965	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9966	Mr. Minister, if there were any good will, you could have done a legal-technical order, you could have submitted the amendment to the current text of the law yourself. Obviously, there was no good will in this case, and you are now transferring to me the responsibility of why certain words that stand are not in the spirit of the law of that act that you have provided for this article. Therefore, I believe that there was a good will, you could have done the editorial, you could have brought this text into line with Article 57, and there would have been no problem. Therefore, I do not think it is correct for you to honor me in this way something that I consider to have been of good will could have been resolved to the satisfaction of you and the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9967	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9968	There is a clear solution that says the minister prescribes and, of course, that every minister will prescribe conditions that will be extremely discriminatory and that will allow only the best with accreditation to work. I'm not going to discuss whether or not there's a good will. There is good will from this ministry, and all MPs who attended the first session of the Committee where this was discussed, and even then DS MPs were not present when this set of laws was discussed. So when it came to amendments, all the MPs who were, they could see for themselves. That we don't discuss whether or not it was a good will, because I claim it is, and you claim it isn't, and I'm saying that DS MPs weren't present on the assembly committee when the amendments they submitted to the last 10 to 15 minutes of the conversation were discussed, and that's facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9969	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9970	Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, MP Gordana Comic in front of the DS -- Boris Tadic has tabled an amendment. So, in Article 60, point 1 after the word "minister" is added: "agency, as well." In paragraph 2, the words "as well as their categorization" are deleted. There is a need to manage a central sub-registration of hazardous substances at the level of the Republic. The Environment Agency is intended to run the information system for the purpose of planning measures and monitoring implementation and approximations to the European Union regulations, and this does not exclude that the province, or local self-government, has data. According to the European Union framework, the term "categoralisation of hazardous substances" is highly unsustainable. What's this about? In the first part of the amendment, we also allow data to be delivered to the Environment Agency, which should be run by the pollution and information system. How, if she doesn't have the data or the ministry only selectively forwards the data to her. The second part of the amendment indicates that the categorization of chemicals does not occur when the chemical is determined, then its properties are precisely known. The term "category" is applicable only to waste. Furthermore, on the creation of a sublegal act on categorization, and on dangerous matter, in chemicals, substances and preparations, which has already been discussed for this speaker that are covered, that is not to be considered. This is consistent with an existing sublegal act on the classification of the marking and packaging of the poison, let alone the future chemical law. According to Article 59, the person may inform either the Ministry or the AP, or local self-government, of the amount and type of hazardous matter and categorisation, where this is explained what categorisation is. We point out that in the Ozone Cover section of Article 56, it is only prohibited to import and export substances from countries that have not ratified the Convention. Nothing is said about the phase ban, and according to the Montreal Protocol since 2010, certain substances will be banned and then phased for other substances on the lists. The Directive of the European Union, which is much more stringent than the Montreal Protocol, is also not to be taken into account. It is said in the fifth point that some can be banned. Not including the obligation to obtain certificates in service, it is not even given to authorise what will be prescribed in the sublegal act. So, I'm referring to the final position of this member. It is also written in the Company Act that a company dealing with hazardous substances must have prior to the start of business a solution of environmental and labour authorities, and on the other hand, it is required that the company only notify the ministry according to Article 59 on certain matters. So no solution should be made by the Ministry, which is an obligation under the Company Act, or conditions are given for obtaining a solution which should be prescribed by this law. This will be a problem, because under the current Poison Act it is necessary to obtain a solution from a poison inspector before registering companies. Because of everything said, the application of these members will be with problems, and the amendment improves the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9971	The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, late Professor Pavle Savic, who otherwise worked with the famous Irene Jolio-Kiri, had one saying, "The policy attitude towards science is revenge for bad students." With this article in '60, we've got revenge on bad students who haven't read the law. This issue is being processed in detail by Article 73 of the Law, and I think that every other comment is too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9973	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9974	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that no one can blame me for being a bad student, so I think today and we should face arguments in the future, not charges of being a good student or a bad student. I guess bad students learned something later, too. The amendment to Article 70, which was submitted by the DS, signed by a respected colleague, Gordana Komic, who is now officially absent, is a technical repair of Article 70, and reads in Article 70(2), after saying: "data" is deleted and the words "minister and agency" are added, because it accurately indicates who the data are being delivered to. I think this amendment can be adopted, because it technically improves Article 70 of the proposed law, and in order not to re-apply, the next few members also represent the technical improvement of the proposed members of the law with which we agree, but we wanted to make a contribution to a more precise explanation, i.e. the formulation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9975	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9976	It is our pleasure to speak to the esteemed Mr. Professor Zivkovic. There's nothing controversial about the amendment, only an article in 73 says the data is being delivered to the agency, and as we've seen, the agency is part of the ministry, and then it's pointless to say they're being delivered to the agency and the ministry. Then you should list the hands that your data is going through. Therefore, Article 73 clearly states who the data is delivered to. Therefore, this solution is practically already inscribed in the membership of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9977	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9978	After Article 71, two new titles are added, Article 71a and Article 71b, which reads - Environment Agency. Article 71a - an environmental agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), is established in accordance with the Public Agency Act. The agency's headquarters is in Belgrade. An agency can be established for the territory of the province. The Agency shall have organisational units outside the seat designated by the Statute. Article 71b - Agency shall carry out professional tasks relating in particular to the preparation of expert documentation and basics, analysis and processing of data and information on natural values and the environment, as well as the establishment, development and maintenance of databases, organise monitoring and early announcement system, examination and monitoring of data on the best available techniques and practices, the preparation of a proposal for instructions, rules and recommendations, the provision of professional assistance and training of users of natural values and pollutants, co-operation with domestic and foreign legal and physical persons, as well as other tasks of a certain law. The bill does not establish an environmental agency in such a way as to be an independent control body in the ministry's work and this has already been discussed in principle in the Environmental Protection Act. We are looking for amendments to the establishment of an environmental agency as an independent control body in the ministry's work. In fact, we're asking for it to be set up the way this government has put one of the laws in the process and imagined public agencies. The current solution under which the Agency for the Protection of the Environment is an organisational continent within the Ministry of Science and Environment Protection and where the minister is superior to the Director of the Agency prevents the functions of an independent, professional and control body. We believe that this is how it is set up and with such a position cannot make an expected contribution to the environmental protection system as an expert partner, both to the Ministry and to all entities in charge of environmental protection in our Republic. It is necessary to stress that the environmental protection agency and its intended function under the environmental protection system are objectively a postal mailbox for a link with the European Environment Agency. It makes her position completely pointless, and therefore counterproductive. The institution, as it is imagined, represents a total surplus, and therefore an unwarranted spending of taxpayers' funds. The Agency and its role must be defined as foreseen by the project of the structure of the environment agency financed from the European Agency for Reconstruction Funds. So it's a conceptual difference and a view of the environmental agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9979	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9980	I agree, it is a conceptal difference where the experiences of Slovenia and Poland have been copied, but independent of the conceptal difference at this time of work of this type of agency, regardless of what is interesting and its name prescribed by the Ministry Act, therefore the applicable law. Therefore, we cannot make any changes to this law that already exists in the law that passed the National Assembly. There is therefore legal difficulties, and there is also a conceptal difference. Let it remain that it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9981	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic tabled an amendment proposing that two new titles and members 71a and 71b be added after article 71. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9982	Dear President, a member of the 73rd bill, the words "environmental protection agency" are replaced by the words "environmental agency". That's what we talked about in the principle debate. The amendment reminds us that the agency shouldn't be just about protecting the environment. What we have said in the principle of a term - environmental protection corresponds to a level of environmental management that does not take into account promotion, does not take into account environmental recovery, nor does the environmental system within the framework of the concept of sustainable development. The word "protection" is defined for one prevailing concept of environmental management in order to apply this law, which regulates environmental protection, as said in Article 1. The bill requires a ministry to protect natural resources and the environment. We had objections to this when this government was formed, objected to why such a ministry does not exist as a special and special professional control by the environmental protection agency. With this amendment, I think we are once again showing what is the conceptual difference between the bill and what the amendments want the Democratic Party to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9983	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9984	So, on December 25, 2003, and I repeat the date of December 25, 2003, and for those who may be a little less able to cope with the calendar, although I don't believe there are in this assembly, it was a time when the previous government was in power. The government adopted a regulation supplementing the Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 12d is talking about the environmental protection agency. Gentlemen, a name in accordance with your December 2003 regulation. As far as the Ministry's work is concerned, the Ministry's work is being controlled by this high-level home.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9985	December 25, 2003 was a pre-election silence, so we won't talk about it anymore. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9986	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS Group – Boris Tadic has proposed an amendment to article 84, which reads: "The fee for the use of groundwater", so a new title and article 84 of the article, which reads, "The fee for using groundwater", reads, "The beneficiary of groundwater pays compensation for their use". The fee referred to in Article 1(1) shall be paid according to the amount of groundwater used. The government of the Republic of Serbia determines the amount of compensation provided for in Article 1. The funds resulting from the fee of the 1st Article's position of 20% of the income are the budgets of the Republic, with 80% of the income being the budgets of the units of local self-government. The explanation of this amendment is that this amendment is proposed in a set of amendments to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, and obviously it is current.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9987	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miloja Savic submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ). Member of the 84th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ). National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 84 be added after article 84. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Miloja Savic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9988	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the SRS' proposal for a law on the protection of the environment on Article 85(5), which reads: "The fee of the 1st member's position of 60% of the income is the Republic's budget, and 40% of the income is the budget of the unit of local self-government, whose territory has been polluted according to the renaissance needs". My amendment requires that Article 85 paragraph 5 be changed and that it reads: "The fee of the 1st member's position is 20% of the income is the Republic's budget, and 80% of the income would be the units of local self-government, whose territory has been polluted, i.e. in accordance with the recovery needs". Reason; it is logical that the funds collected in this way are invested in the territory where pollution occurred, not elsewhere. We know, when we had the Committee on Environmental Protection that the government had in the beginning thought that it should be a starting point for 20% to belong to the budget, and 80% to the local self-government whose territory had been polluted. I don't think they'd be wrong if you did, because it's fairer if the environmental dinar and those funds that come from contaminants were actually used to resuscitate such places. This amendment would make it easier for local self-government to resolve the damage caused, as at first, there is more resources at its disposal at the very beginning, which therefore come from contaminants. If these funds are paid and are intended for the recovery of the environment, it would be normal for them to be used in the right way, which is for the recovery of such pollution. The government should consider this amendment and I suggest that the SRS accept this amendment, because that is what we have advocated in this law. The government was initially of the opinion that these funds should be distributed. You wouldn't be wrong this time. I call on all MPs to accept this amendment, by improving the resolution of environmental pollution conditions and thus facilitating the resolution immediately at the outset, because financial resources are certainly the problem always, and also in this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9989	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to support this amendment because it definitely makes sense and opens at least three important questions to which this law and the general government policy should answer. The first question is a desire for decentralisation and for strengthening local self-government, which could be seen precisely in this case and especially to justify, given that pollution occurs somewhere in local self-government, it is a contaminant from that local self-government, but compensation for pollution from that polluter does not go to local self-government at some significant percentage, but goes to the state. The first proposal for this law was even worse set, that 40% of the compensation goes to local self-government and 60% to the Republic's budget. The minister managed to change that variant and now 60% go to local self-government and 40% to the Republic's budget. But that's not enough. It is not logical for pollution to occur in Pancheva, Kikinda, Kragujevac, and after that means taken from that territory to solve problems on another territory. Therefore, this relationship to decentralisation is significant here and it shows that some of the resources collected from contaminants will not solve the problem in the same territory. We have a problem here that the contaminant is now becoming completely uninterested. We return to that story about the polluter paying, because if he paid on his territory, he could, with his local self-government, find a variant and about the subsidy, and around some other interesting opportunities for him to find his own economic interest in the sense that as a polluter, he has some assets that are practically invested in solving the environmental problem. Therefore, the third question that would be interesting here through these percentages is that we have a conflict of jurisdiction again, because the percentage returns to 40% in the Republic because it is the interest of the water industry, rather than essentially the interest of environmentalists, not the interest of those who care about environmental protection in the right sense of that word. So, this conflict here was dominant and determined whether the percentage would be 80% in local self-government, and 20% of the state has gone beyond the water industry this time and only confirms that all resources need, and protection of all resources, to be in the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. Then perhaps that relationship in favor of protection would be far greater. This is where the economic interest and those who, above all, see water or other resources in terms of economic earnings, not protection and concern for the future of generations, has prevailed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9991	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 85 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9992	This proposal was made before this change was made by the minister, meaning it goes 60-40% but in favour of local self-government. Here is a reason why the amendment could be accepted -- a fee from the 1st member's position of 60% of the Republic's budget's income, except for pollution generated in the AP territory, when 60% of the funds are shared in relation to 40% of the Republic's budget and 20% of the AP's budget, and 40% of the income is from local self-government units whose territory has been affected by pollution, i.e. in accordance with the renaissance needs. Local self-government units have so far been granted as the original public revenues in its territory a compensation for protecting and improving the environment, as well as acquittal public revenues as part of environmental pollution compensation. These are significant means that should be used purposely to protect and improve the environment. For example, in the name of the environmental pollution fee, Beocin municipality charged a large polluter "Lafarzha BFC" a.d. from Beocina 30 million dinars. Article 29 paragraph 1 point 5) of the Law laying down certain competences, the A.P. of the Region is entrusted with security tasks, monitoring environmental factors in the territory of the AP financed by the AP Vojvodina budget. Monitoring is organised at the level of the Republic and at the level of the province and local self-government. The issue of environmental pollution is therefore not only the problem of local self-government, since monitoring with a proposal for a protection measure is organised on the territory of the province and financed by the province. There's a lot of talk here about decentralisation. I am indeed a proponent of decentralisation at all levels, which will not mean disintegration in any sense. Whether from the environmental protection system, whether in the state sense etc. So decentralisation that will mean improving the service to the citizens. Large contaminants are not only polluting one municipality, but it is a broader problem, and for which solving is competent and particularly interested in the province. I'd like to go back to the Vrbas municipality again, where we have a polluted Grand Baba Canal. Investment is estimated to cost around 40m euros to clean up the Great Bacacan canal and rescue wastewater from the towering community industry and the Vrba municipality. That's absolutely impossible. That even municipalities that are directly threatened, such as Tower, Vrbas, Srbobran and Vienna themselves, are financing. It means that both the provinces and the Republic need support, and that is also the European problem because it is the Danube Basin. It is the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem, which is directly threatened by the Danube River, so it is in a certain way a European problem. And Europe has been involved in solving this problem in the most direct way, with the participation of the Vrbas municipality in the construction of a local ecological action plan through the European Agency for Reconstruction. I do not see how the problem would be solved under the bill, and I believe that this is a solution that also allows the province to adequately address environmental pollution problems, and the funds achieved by environmental pollution compensation, which would be used in an appropriate manner to protect and improve the environment according to the programmes, i.e. action and recovery plans adopted in accordance with this law and specific laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9993	Thank you. There's a word for Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9994	Clearly, there was debate over how the money from the polluters would pay should be distributed. He's got more ideas. The important thing is that the system works. We heard yesterday in the debate on the principle of examples, although I have no doubt about it, but I have no reason to doubt the word of MPs, environmental funds that have money, and do not solve problems. So one of the amendments that then deletes the others was accepted. I think it was Mr. Savic's amendment, that 60% is going from budget polluting to local self-government units, and 40% to the Republic's budget, to the fund. Because the fact is that the most endangered are those where pollution occurs. But pollution travels. It is therefore necessary to intervene elsewhere. As Mr Stanimirovic said - there are problems that the municipalities will definitely not be able to solve on their own, so there needs to be someone. It'll go through the fund, those funds will go through the fund. So there needs to be someone to intervene on the side, in the worst cases possible, and I agree with the case of the Great Back Channel. That's one of the hardest cases we have. This is how the polluter funds will be used. As for compensation for the use of natural values, they are governed by a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9995	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miloja Savic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 87 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9996	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, this amendment is in the set of amendments, and in order to regulate the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, for which the EU now adopts and prepares its strategy. This is what we have also put forward as a conceptually different from the position of the Democratic Party and the bill in principle debate, and above all in the area of the environment where it should be covered by the so-called so-called. horizontally linked to parts of legislation and legislation in areas. First of all, we think of air, water, nature, natural resources, forests, land, and when we say - horizontal legislation, means primarily environmental impact assessment, strategic impact assessment, access to information, public participation in decision-making, etc. So, first of all, this amendment wants to indicate that it is an unwarranted rejection of these provisions and that it is necessary to regulate the area in a way that the frameworks for determining the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources are provided for some future generations. I really don't intend to do anything special with the minister, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to return to article 73 that I mentioned here. What the minister resented for me -- that there is a 2003 regulation that defines the environmental agency, I agree that it was brought in 2003, but you will agree with me that the legislation in the area we are now discussing is not adequate and that we are sure to change it. And it is logical that the Democratic Party has good intentions and that it wants its amendments to change and adapt the text of the law to what we consider and evaluate it to be quality and good. I really think that if we avoid the fact that the legislation in this area is very bad that it is at the level of the '70s, let's try to fit the legislation and the bill with those standards that we consider necessary. I see nothing terrible about what the Democratic Party has proposed, and what may be different from the 2003 regulation. I think the good will and good intentions of the Democratic Party have been shown through these amendments and through this whole story. It is clearly shown and demonstrated, and I don't see any reason for any respect that the Democratic Party wants to perhaps, I don't know, tell a demagogical story or have a different attitude compared to 2003 than the position it is now representing in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9997	Thank you, Mr. Radosavic, we're not going back to Article 73. The government has been changed, which would not be a changed regulation, you're absolutely right. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member Srjo Komazec submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 104th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 105th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Dobrica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9998	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendment is related to the deadline laid down in the transitional provisions. The essence and purpose of this amendment is to bring forward a proposal for this law, namely the law of its life, in practice, meaning its enforceability. In Article 105 following Article 1, a new position of 2 is added: "The polluter is obliged to make a financial investment programme to remove the risk of environmental pollution for the period provided for in Article 84 of this Law." This law provides a period of one year, and the amendment allows one factory to make its own approach to modern environmental standards. Of course, there are enough of these businesses, and let's say factories that can't comply with the deadline of a year, so that could mean that this law assumes that some factories will have to stop with their lives and production. So the purpose of this amendment is to express the need for this law to be enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u9999	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10000	The government believes that there are enough mechanisms in Article 106, especially at its end that cover what the amendment is talking about. Otherwise, the amendment does not apply to Article 124 but to Article 123. There is a technical error, which for legal reasons does not allow us to accept that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10001	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10002	I will take the opportunity to explain both Articles 111 and 112. I think they're tied up. Article 111 – The rights and duties of inspectors, we believe that 'EMAS' should be replaced by the words 'the national EMAS system' and the words 'EMAS' are replaced by the words 'national EMAS' in the corresponding drop in point 1 point 7 and 8) to be deleted, and after point 9) to add three new points that should be read – 9a – The implementation of the obligation to develop a strategic impact assessment and impact assessment on the environment, to make an analysis of the impact of the observed situation, to determine the fulfilment of environmental protection conditions in the process of obtaining the applicable authorisation, i.e. the start of performance and the acquisition of an ecological permit, as well as the acquisition of compliance with the conditions and measures of environmental protection in the process of the establishment of the intended purpose and the acquisition of the building permit. 9b – Implementation of the prescribed measures and conditions of environmental protection from environmental authorisation. 9v – Treatment with chemicals, harmful substances, procedures and measures for accidents, modes and conditions of work and technical equipment. Point 18) to delete. The explanation here is very short. I think these amendments bridge the discrepancies that exist with the European Union directive. The powers of the inspectorate shall be specified, in particular in Article 111, in the exercise of inspection controls. We are establishing amendments to what we want, and it is the law to monitor the work by inspection. The inspection must do its job, the penalties must be for all that is prescribed in the law, not selectively, something that is prescribed only declaratively and that after that, as the practice tells us, is not applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10003	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was tabled by the MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposer of this law, or Mr. Minister on behalf of the Proposer, has presented to us as an epochal solution to this problem. You heard from the authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Blazic, that we are conceptually different from the government's proposal. As a result, we have not invested a large number of amendments, because it would be impossible for amendments to be fixed and the law would be what the SRS would do in this area. We have several amendments, but we are aware that you will adopt the law that the Government has proposed, yet we have tried to make this legal text, which you will adopt, truly meaningful and applicable, and to give certain effects. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 113 of this Law, and I have proposed what an environmental inspector could and should do. The proposal and our position is that an environmental inspector in the conduct of operations referred to in Articles 111 and 112 of this Act, which speak of the responsibilities of this inspector, may establish the identity of a particular person in whom a declaration is taken and shall restrict the freedom of movement of persons who are found to commit a criminal offence, i.e. in certain cases and subject to certain conditions and temporarily withdraw objects, goods or devices whose use is not permitted or whose illicit activities have been committed. We believe that only in this way and by regulating Article 113 would the effects of the work of environmental inspectors be achieved, because in the preceding Article 112 we have some 27 points of what the inspector is authorized to do, I don't know, to order, to ban, suspend, etc., and that everything is fine, and it should order and ban and suspend where there are reasons for that. The problem is that if you look at this law and read it carefully, you will find that the inspector does not know who to order, prohibit, suspend, because the inspector has no authority to legitimize the person, or to restrict his freedom of movement if he is found guilty of committing a criminal offence, or in violation of this law, nor can he temporarily take away objects, goods or devices whose use is not permitted or whose illicit activities have been committed. What's going on? The inspector can only come and report as an ordinary citizen and say that he does, there someone has drained some toxic material, won't tell me what it's called, his dirty plates on the truck, and I can't get close enough to see it, or he has to call market inspection, the police, and why, if the market inspector has such powers, why wouldn't the inspector have such powers to protect the environment. You remember when we passed tax laws, when you allowed tax inspectors to break into houses, shops, to prey on goods and at night even. Then when the budget is filled directly in that way, you don't choose the funds. It is true that also by applying this law in a certain way through the penalties of the full budget, it is much more important that if the inspector acted in the way we predicted in Article 113 or in our amendment, then the effect of this law would be much better and then you could really say that the application of this law would also lead to environmental protection and improvement of environmental conditions, etc. So, I suggest you, Minister, reconsider the amendment I submitted to Article 113. Believe that your legal text will be much better and that the effect of the law will be much better, much faster, much more effective, if you accept this amendment. If you do not, I call on fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10005	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly this Member of the 113st proposal of Ms. Verice Radete should be well considered and this amendment should be accepted. However, I wanted to take the opportunity to ask Mr. Secretary a question. This law mentions energy efficiency and the use of energy, renewable natural energy, so I want to ask if it can happen, and I'm suspicious of this law, that tomorrow these inspectors might say that thermoelectrics are doing a lot of pollution, so let's say that they say that when it's planned to build some thermal power plant, they're going to give priority to the butane thermal power plant, to the natural gas. So, is there going to be a thermal power plant and coal at risk, by saying that the price of coal, as energy, is far the lowest. Yesterday I set an example in the principle speech for Tent B Termopower Plant at the mouth, where perfect filters work. Those chemicals, the dangerous substances used in the plant, they're under very good control and they're handled by all world standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10007	We'll take this as a parliamentary question, and then you'll answer later. You'll be satisfied with the answer like this, don't you have to be fooled as a parliamentary question? So it's not being seduced in a stenogram as a parliamentary question. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 114a be added after article 114a. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10008	On behalf of DS - Boris Tadic, MP Gordana Komic, the MP, has submitted an amendment to add a new Article 114a, which reads: "The Autonomous Region is entrusted with the tasks of inspection control over the application of measures and conditions of environmental protection in those buildings for which the authorities of the Autonomous Region, including control of the application of protection measures against polluting substances, other than inspection controls in the areas of chemicals, or hazardous substances (toxins), substances that damage the ozone layer, conservation of biodiversity, ionising and non-ionizing radiation and inspection at border crossings. Local self-government units are entrusted with the tasks of inspection supervision of the application of environmental conditions and measures in those facilities for which the building permit is granted by the authorities of the local self-government units." The amendment correctly separates the responsibilities of republican and rural inspectors, as well as municipal environmental inspectors. Without this amendment, there will still be problems in practice. The amendment to Article 118 also proposes a solution that will contribute to the better application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10009	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 118 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You've already spoken under this amendment. No one wants the amendment. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10010	According to the amendment to Article 111, I would like to say that we have submitted an amendment to Article 119. For the sake of the public, I would like to read Article 119, which says: "The fine between five and 20,000 dinars or a prison sentence for up to 30 days will be punishable for the violation of a natural person if 1) harasses, abuses, harms, destroys a wild fauna, or destroys its habitat." After that, the DS proposes three new points 1a, 1b and 1v, which reads: "1a) Destroy and destroy life habitats, wild flora and fauna, destroys wild flora, harassing, harassing, killing and killing wild fauna, other than wild game and fish, according to the prescribed conditions; 1b) enters and raises flora and fauna of foreign origin for free settlement in nature, which could endanger domestic autotone species and their spread and inputs and breeds of flora and fauna of foreign origin without the consent of the competent ministry; 1v) destroys or damages public green areas, i.e. by cutting trees to build objects without the approval of a competent authority". That's what DS has as an objection to Article 119. I'm saying, he's tied to Article 111 in that part about establishing the work of an inspector. It is our obligation, first of all, to provide for all the instruments to be really adequate and to really be suitable for those persons who are deaf about what we have stated as a proposal for an amendment, that is, Article 119. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10011	Anyone else want a word? Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10012	So the good intentions are undeniable, but there is no material provision in the previous parts of the law that would apply to this. I will just remind myself that even in Article 27, there was one amendment to the same parliamentary group, which was supposed to erase the attitude that he said was forbidden to destroy, rip or otherwise destroy the wild flora, or destroy and destroy its habitats.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10013	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10014	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People, Member of 123, in the transitional and final provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, reads: "The legal and natural persons will coordinate their affairs with the provisions of this law within one year of the entry into force of this law." National MP Gordana Komic has submitted an amendment to this member of the law, so that Article 123 is amended and reads: "The legal and natural persons will coordinate their business with the provisions of this law within two years (for new plants and activities affecting the environment) from the day of entry into force of this law and until 2017". Currently in our country, the most significant environmental pollutants (chemical, petrochemical industry, oil industry, colored and black metallurgy and others) are very outdated. Technology and equipment are 30-40 years old, and are unable to reduce their pollution and emissions in accordance with the current legislation of the European Union, because their recovery requires both large investments and time. As a result, in the European Union, the countries, in line with the directives on integrated pollution prevention and control, have left time until 2007 to adapt existing activities and facilities to the prescribed requirements. At the same time, this would harmonize with the proposal for a law on integrated pollution prevention and control, which is also in the process. In this respect, Article 33 speaks of a programme for the harmonisation of certain economic branches with the provisions of the said Bill, under which the ministry is required to submit to the Government a harmonisation programme within a year of the entry into force of the law, and the Government will prescribe temporary emission limits to air and water for the first five years of harmonisation of certain economic branches with the provisions of this law. In Article 34 of that Bill, there is an obligation for existing facilities and activities to obtain a licence by 2015. We propose an amendment in 2017. In 2002, when the draft law on the environmental protection system had a number of public debates and citizens' participation in the decision-making process, it was agreed as realistic in 2015 in accordance with the programme of harmonisation of certain economic branches with the provisions of this law. At the same time, it is important that, in the privatisation process, potential customers and future owners have clearly defined deadlines on the environment. Is it realistic that Serbian factories comply with this law within a year? We have already talked here in principle and in the debate on amendments that resolving the issue of environmental protection, not environmental pollution, is one of the limiting development factors for our industry, starting with the food, which I was talking about most because I come from Vrbasa where food is produced, and where is a large kitchen that produces huge quantities of food, and I have already said that this kitchen has not been cleaned in the past 40 years. We're wondering if that might make some factory, people lose their jobs, or if the law isn't respected. We stand for clear dynamics, clear deadlines to talk about, we will monitor whether these dynamics are met by solving environmental pollution issues. We feel that this house should not pass laws that are inadmissible, and thus deceive the public in a certain way. It is not enough that in one of the remaining three laws a transitional deadline is given by 2015, which is likely to be answered by the minister when there are many standards in this law that require adaptation within a year. With our amendment, we proposed that the law be more realistic for implementation, two years for new plants, and for the existing one gradually until 2017 with a clear adjustment plan so that this adjustment could be achieved and verified every year. Imagine just one RTB Bor, the flag, NIS, EPS, that, for a year they will not be able to comply with Article 72, just for example, and there is air and water in a prescribed manner, then they will pay fines for each offence, say a million dinars per article 119. Therefore, only for the adaptation of the EPS, which is the best public enterprise in the Republic of Serbia, despite the fact that in many ways it is in a bad voice, but in some ways over the past few years everything has been raised, 1.3 billion euros is necessary for its adaptation to environmental standards. The evaluations were made by renowned consulting houses, and the project was funded by the European Agency for Reconstruction. It is very clear that even a much richer state than us could not single out that much money in such a short time, and the rate of investment of 100m euros annually by the end of the deadline is a very great effort. In another alternative to having so much resources, the result could only be expected in a few years, as it is a process and it is impossible to resolve it overnight. If such a thing is impossible for an EPS, so that something like that would be possible for everyone else who is in a much worse position than this public enterprise. It is very interesting to consider further developments. So can the state close the EPS because of the inability to comply with the law, and would that threaten to turn off light in the Republic of Serbia? So our question is, who is the selector, who is the one who, if selectively determined who can, and who cannot adjust these deadlines, who is the selector, and who is the one who proclaims one like it or not? It doesn't need to be very smart, so see that the bill opens up an ideal space for possible corruption, which we are all against in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10015	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'll give you my word, Mr. Minister, just a moment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 84(2), I would like to inform you of the course of this session. So, after the discussion on another amendment is completed, because one was adopted, we will cross, we will use the presence of Minister Stojkovic at point 9, and then the break will be by 1600 hours. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10016	We had a failure in the words in the amendments, we had a failure in the members, and now the law is broken. So it is clear that large systems will succumb to the issue of an integrated permit. So Mr. Stanimirovic spoke about the proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of pollution. As for the measurement of emissions and missions, rules already exist today. There are laws that prescribe it. This is not a wasteland regarding legislation in the area. If someone doesn't respect the law today, as far as it's concerned, they're breaking it. He's got a year to get into new regulations, and we don't think that's controversial. Otherwise we could say, if we need 40 million euros, and that's completely unreal, let's cross our hands and wait. This government has no intention of doing so. At the end of the corruption mentioned, of course we're all against it, and that's why we propose a mechanism where the knife and the cake are not in the same hand. So, that one ministry in charge of environmental protection gives consent, and that authorisation is given by competent resolution ministries, thus reducing the possibility of corruption. It must be much smaller than when you have one ministry that issues all the permits.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10017	Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 127 be added after article 127. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10018	Very briefly, after almost three days of debate, I would like to thank all the MPs, all the MPs, not only for the correct and constructive, mostly constructive debate in this room, but also for the correct and constructive debate we had several times in some parliamentary groups, and this was also on the Committee on Environmental Protection. There have been some doubts as to the pace of law-making. This is step one. This government will go with another package of laws in the field of environmental law in the spring. Surely in this assembly the first anniversary of this government will be marked with at least eight laws. Whether our legislation is now before these laws are passed at the level of the 70s or the 80s, it is difficult to discuss it, but what is the fact, it is not the fault of this government that such legislation has waited for it. We're doing everything we can and we'll do it in the future. In principle, the discussion itself has abounded in examples that tell us what the situation in the environment is in certain locations, and I would say that in all Serbia is bad and abandoned. These laws are the first step, and each time we start with the first step, by fixing that condition. I would invite everyone, because this is our joint house, whether power or opposition, all of us in this joint house and after the adoption of these laws and after some of the next choices, to live to do whatever is possible in the future by passing and implementing laws that are in line with world standards and adapted to the state and life in Serbia, to do everything possible to make the country that we leave to our children as best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10019	Thank you, Minister Popovic. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the important laws have been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the termination of certain laws. It doesn't take much to explain, because you've all read it and you know what it's about. By adopting the Constitutional Charter, one part of the federal laws remained in force on condition that it was not contrary to the Charter itself or that it was not regulated by the laws of the Republic, given that jurisdiction in most areas was transferred to the Republic. Given that a number of laws have been passed in the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand that one particular competence has been completely taken away from the Serbia-Montenegro community, especially with regard to funds and in particular that one number of authorities has ceased to exist. In view of such a situation, it concerns the view that no matter what the formal reason is, this law should be passed in order to introduce legal certainty in our order, so that there will be no situation for people to wonder whether one law still applies or should another one be applied. For these reasons, the regulations and those laws which have de facto ceased to apply or have ceased the work of bodies whose activity has been regulated by these laws. In this way and formally declared to be invalid and avoid any legal uncertainty, and the possibility to adopt sublegal acts in these areas is given. For these reasons, I propose that we adopt this law, with a little reference to the Labour Relations Act. He was brought in, but that federal law wasn't formally declared invalid, and that's why he's taking the date when he should have stopped working. It's the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. I propose that this law be passed, since there were no objections even on boards, and that we have at least one full legal certainty in that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10021	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, I conclude the search in principle and agree with Article 136(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in detail, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. This afternoon's work of today's session continues at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Tax Law on the Income of the City (Common Main Search with 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16) As we have a quorum, a unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Miloljub Albianic, and before opening a joint principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as if this time were also being allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on draft laws amending the Law on Income Tax, the Law on property taxes, the Act on Excises, the fiscal cash registers, the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to the National Bank of Serbia and the tax on non-life insurance premiums. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10023	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you six legislative proposals from the Ministry of Finance and I would like first to explain what the Ministry of Finance is proposing, and then I will consider every legislative proposal in more detail. As you know, this assembly passed a month ago the 2005 Budget Law, which envisions a deficit of 20.5 billion dinars. About a month and a half ago, we adopted budget rebalances for 2004, when we jointly set budget deficits for this year at 32.7 billion dinars. First of all, I want to tell you that according to the state of income and expenditure for the first 11 months of this year, we have reached a deficit of 11 months of 23.4 billion. It is 10 billion less than what was planned for the whole year, i.e. for the first 11 months this year's budget has seven billion less deficits than in the same period in 2003. Apparently, since we have a trend in income growth, and on the other hand savings on the side of expenditure, this year's deficit will be significantly less than 30 billion dinars. So it's not going to be 32.7 billion, as determined by the rebalance, let alone the 45 billion, how we went originally. We have started with a serious savings savings since July and a cost reduction policy and better revenue collection managed to bring this deficit down to a significantly below 30 billion dinars. We'll see, we've got another month, what it's gonna be in the end. But why am I saying this? It's precisely because the finance ministry's policy since July of this year to create a basis for tax cuts through spending cuts. We saved on expenditures on the one hand, on the other hand we had better revenue collection, about 21% of our income growth this year compared to the same period last year and there were conditions for tax discharge. Of these six laws that we are now going to consider, four tax laws that predict tax evasion in the following year. Before I remind the assembly of the finance ministry's proposal, it has already passed a law on the abolition of financial transactions tax, so that as of January 1st next year, the economy will be released from paying seven billion dinars of this tax. So this is a tax that's been broken to the back and businesses and citizens, because whenever you went to the bank, you had to pay a tax on financial transactions. Since January 1st, there is no tax, we created conditions so that we can abolish it without feeling it on the budget. Also, from January 1st, four to five billion banks will pay less to the state on the basis of the abolition of sales tax on bank charges. We will insist that banks on this basis lower interest rates, because four to five billion dinars will pay less next year than this year, and that is the interest rate drop area for several percentage points next year. In addition, we propose an additional tax discharge to these laws. I'm going to say what's most important. First of all, we propose to abolish the income tax of 14% for all newly employed workers in 2005. This release would have been applied over a year. We want to stimulate employment in this way. This is how we approach the fulfillment of the promise we made, because this way, 100 dinars will be paid by the employer in the following year for newly employed workers by only 52 dinars of contributions. Given that this assembly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, has already adopted the Contribution Act, which gives special benefits to those who have over 45 years of life, and have lost their jobs in the transition process, this means that if someone is employed next year by a person who is on the Bureau who has over 50 years of life, they will pay for it at 100 dinars only 26 dinars of contributions. If he hires someone over 45, he'll only pay 31.5 dinars. For others, for less than 45 years, the employer will pay 52 dinars for new employees on 100 dinars of salary. It's a significant discharge. Let me just say that last year, about 78 dinars of taxes and contributions were paid to 100 dinars. It is the first major newspaper to be included in amendments to the Law on Income Tax. Otherwise, we believe that there are far fewer people on the Bureau of Employment, or on the National Employment Service's record, who are really looking for a job than the one that has been formally presented. Technically, there are about 950,000 people on that record. However, a large number of people who are formally registered there actually have jobs, but employers are not today motivated to report them, because they have high costs and because of taxes they do not want to report them. I have to say that we expect that, on this basis, a good part of the people who are working on black go completely into legal flows today, because employers, especially by introducing value added tax, which will drain cash from optics, squeeze cash out of gray channels, will themselves be motivated to report employees, and we motivate them to pay only 52 dinars per 100 dinars of wages for people under 45 years of age and even less amounts for persons over 45 years old. Also, the Ministry of Finance will propose to the Ministry of Labour next year to amend the laws that bind the rights, some health and social security rights, to apply to the Bureau, to abolish this, because there is simply no need for anyone to apply to the Bureau to enjoy social and health insurance rights. I think it will happen the same way in Croatia. In Croatia, when similar regulations were passed, 250,000 people were checked out of the bureau only over a year. We will, I am convinced, only next year, find out how many people in Serbia are really looking for a job and are really at the Bureau, because today this 950,000 figure also contains those who only applied there to achieve social and health insurance, and they are not looking for a job, and it includes those who work, but they are receiving cash wages because employers avoid paying taxes. This is step one. We expect that the second step, at the initiative of our ministry, will be taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection in the first half of next year. Another big newspaper in these laws is that we lower the tax rate for self-activities. It's the cobwebs. It's those who make an annual income of less than two million dinars a year, from the current 14% to 10%. That's a very low rate. That's how we even this rate with the corporate profit tax rate. As you know, this assembly adopted a proposal from the finance ministry this summer and today Serbia has a convincing lowest profit tax rate in Europe. There is also a whole set of benefits for farmers. As far as farmers are concerned, these laws exempt them from paying taxes on income from agricultural activity, i.e. income tax, for the whole of 2004 and 2005. As promised, any income that farmers have on the basis of premiums, subsidies and regressions, which come at the expense of registered agricultural households, will not be entered into the basis of annual income tax. Therefore, all those to whom the grain premium is paid on the bill will not be taxed for that amount, but will be treated as their total income rather than their earnings. Only other revenues can enter the basis of the annual income tax. In this way, we want to stimulate that as much agricultural land as possible is being registered, because it will have greater and greater benefits in the future, and that revenue it receives from the state, based on subsidies, will not enter into the basic income tax. When it comes to farmers, we also propose the abolition of excise duties on diesel fuel for tractors, which they use to process land and perform other agricultural works. This way, for farmers, fuel will be 30% cheaper than on January 1st, when these laws enter into force. I'd say two more benefits when it comes to farmers. First, it doubles the property tax over agricultural and forest land, and the inheritance reduces the number of years it takes for someone to spend in relation to it to be able to benefit from the tax on a gift, at five years, now in law, to one year. So it's enough to prove that it's been that deadline for a year. As far as other groups are concerned, one of the benefits for citizens is double the tax on the transfer of property for second-hand cars from current 5% to 2.5%, because today many citizens are driving to so-called. Powers, because they don't have the money to pay taxes on the transmission of motor vehicles. This is how we want to stimulate car registration, because from the current 5%, the property transfer tax will be reduced to 2.5% as of January 1st. The fifth important item is - these laws, in particular the law on income tax of citizens and the property tax law, all taxes burdening trade in securities with values and actions issued by the state are abolished, because we want to accelerate the development of the money and capital market and lead to the collapse of interest rates. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak in particular now about each of these laws. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, which is the point of the 10th agenda, in addition to exempting the obligation to pay the income tax of 14% for all newly employed workers, we reduce the base of the income tax for workers posted abroad. Today, there is a case that if our construction firms, or any other company, work abroad, have two to five times the basis for paying taxes on profits from companies that work in the country. In this way, they are not competitive with foreign companies or do not show income tax, but are transferring it to other accounts, and that tax never comes to Serbia. We propose to change this and to establish a unique base of income tax, whether our workers work in a country or abroad. In this way, we will motivate our companies working abroad to pay their salary tax in the budget. So we remove the coefficients from two to five, there's only one coefficient -- they all have the same base, regardless of where they work, in Serbia or abroad. We also release tax payments on premiums, i.e. contributions to voluntary additional pension insurance, which the employer suspends and pays from the employee's salary, up to a maximum of 3,000 dinars per month. As far as tax exemptions are concerned, I have already mentioned the basic - the abolition of tax on cadastrian income for 2004 and 2005 and the exemption of tax and VAT-based payments. Namely, farmers will have the option in the value added tax system, if they sell their goods to a trade, to ask them for 5% of VAT fees, if they want, there will be no need, but if they want, and I am sure that when they understand that convenience, they will ask them to get 5% of the value of the goods in the name of the VAT fee. On the other hand, whoever buys from the peasants that goods will be able to deduct it from their expenses, so there's a motive on both sides. On that VAT fee, which the peasants will receive on their own account, no tax will be paid. That's the essence of this change. When it comes to the transfer tax, except we double the transfer tax from 5% to 2.5%, in the transfer of agricultural and forest land and used cars, we also cut the 5% tax on property transfer to new apartments. Therefore, those who buy apartments in 2005 will not pay 5% of the property transfer tax, given that under the new law apartments, or construction, enter the system of taxation by the value added tax system, so that we avoid double taxation. The rate of 5% of the property transfer tax remains at second-hand dwellings, but the value added tax is not accounted for in the case of second-hand dwellings. We're introducing a big newspaper to tax the author's fee. On the one hand, we lower tax rates, but on the other hand we want to bring order and some professions, to finally tax them in an adequate way. I'm going to give a concrete example. Today there are six groups of different art works, which have normized costs that reduce the base of taxes on copyright fees. Instead of six basics and a complicated administration, we bring it down to only three groups now. The normised costs will be estimated at 40, 50 and 60%. What does this mean specifically? As far as estrada is concerned, today estrada, as you know, doesn't pay taxes or pays minimum. On the other hand, the tax on estrace artists is pretty big. It's 92% today. In other words, at 100 dinars, 92% should be given to the state. We are now doing this - to date the normised cost of estradid and for similar programs was only 10%. So 10% bounces away from the base. Ten percent are rejected as the basis for the tax on copyright fees. It's going to be 40% under the new bill. What does that mean? Far more is the basis for the calculation of copyright fees, so the effective rate of taxes on copyright fees, in those not secured on the other basis, is reduced from the current 92% to 47%. So double. Today, 92 dinars stand out, although they don't stand out because no one pays for it, and we propose to double down, but that's why we introduce rigorous penalties for not reporting these actions. As regards taxation of income from estrad programmes, on the one hand, we double the tax rate, but therefore we introduce the obligation of payers to enroll in a special register with the tax administration no later than 31 January 2005 or 15 days after the start date. Just to clarify, all those who hold the pubs, which organise the weddings, which organise the concerts, will be required until 31 January 2005, one month after the entry into force of this law, to enroll in the register as organizers of estradic programs. Whether it's music programs, whether it's illusionists, magicians, it's still, they have to register as organizers of these programs. The payer's obligation is introduced to conclude contracts with interpreters, managers and other persons and to deliver regular monthly notifications to the tax administration by the 5th month for the previous month. What does that mean? We don't want to be in control of the performers, we want to be in control of the organizers. All organizers will be registered in the register, and for performers are double the tax rates, but they have to pay them. In other words, if the tax control determines that a restaurant does not deliver or has not concluded a contract with the performers, it may impose a temporary ban on the performance of up to 30 days, in other words the bar is closed. If it is established in the tax control that the values in the contract differ from the market values, there is a possibility of increasing the tax base. We have on one side a stimulant, twice the tax rate, and on the other side a severe sanction, which goes from high sentences to closing down facilities that organize these activities. This applies not only to restaurants, cafes, but also to those who organize weddings in tents. So literally to anyone who throws any kind of esthetical program or entertainment. It is natural that in a society where everyone is obliged to pay taxes and where workers today pay 70 dinars, say, taxes and contributions to 100 dinars of wages, and that those who entertain the people must adequately contribute to the development of society, we reduce rates. They're far bigger fees, so it'll be more money in the crowd. Those who organize these programs will have to report. We'll do the same thing with the fiscal registers. So, at first they probably won't all sign up, but when they see that their restaurant is closed for 30 days and they're going to pay two to 20 times in comparison to what they're supposed to pay for, you'll see that there by March, all of this slowly comes to its place in April. As for the capital income tax, so far the tax exemption has been extended for interest made on the basis of all debt charters issued by the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, local self-government and the National Bank of Serbia. The payment of interest tax is simplified on the basis of other debt charters, as the calculation and payment of the tax is made immediately via the Central Register. Also, we want to stimulate domestic work in tourism, i.e. the base for paying taxes for all those who pay a living tax and legally rent rooms to tourists. Today, only 20 percent of the standard costs are recognised. We increase it two and a half times. So two-and-a-half times we cut the base, and 50 percent will be the normable costs. Whoever pays the residence fee, who reports it, will have a far lower base, and whoever does not report it, we will close the facility. So, on the one hand, stimulation for paying a lower tax, and on the other hand, harsh sanctions. As for the other changes, I want to say that there are more details to be said for sure in the principle discussion. One of the newspapers is to exempt from paying taxes on the income of official travel costs when payment is made to the national authorities and to persons addressed to the Republic and to non-profit organisations. Also, we exclude from the base of the annual income tax for dividend citizens and share in profits, so that there is no double taxation. Unlike the previous years, when the amount of the annual income tax was determined in absolute terms, this year every one who achieved over 800 and a few thousand dinars was a taxpayer of that tax, we are now finding that in a relative amount of four times the average salary paid in the Republic of Serbia in the current year. That way we have a better rapper and we don't have to keep changing the law. These are the basic newspapers in the Bill on Income Tax. The second law you have before you is to amend the property tax law. The main papers in this law are as follows. As of 1 January 2005, no property tax will be paid on property rights in actions on behalf and on shares in a limited liability society. Therefore, the tax on holding shares and securities of value is abolished and the tax on capital gains remains, unlike the price between the initial value of shares and the end obtained in some process, which is normal and exists in all other laws. In this law, I have already said, we are reducing the tax on the value of absolute rights in agricultural land and used cars. You don't pay five percent for new apartments in the name of transfer of ownership. There's one important newspaper here, we want, and that's our philosophy at the Ministry of Finance, that those who have a relatively higher financial power pay the state more taxes. In property taxes, we increase the tax on assets worth more than 30 million dinars. All those in Serbia who have assets whose value exceeds around 400,000 euros in dinar equivalent next year will pay a tax at a rate of three instead of the current two per cent. So 50 percent will increase their taxes. To those whose property is less than 400,000 euros, the same tax rates remain as today and we extend tax exemption to a greater amount than is now established. Therefore, tax exemption for up to 400,000 dinars is not charged with any property tax. What's important about this law is that it's an ablation for those who haven't paid any taxes to the state so far. We have an absurd situation today. One part of the citizens pays their property tax neatly, and one part of the citizens pays nothing. Today under the current law sanctions are so mild that taxpayers are not paid to pay taxes on property, they are more paid to pay the fine. Meanwhile, as you know, a new Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act has been passed. We now agree in criminal provisions on property tax with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, so that whoever does not report a tax on property or report less than what it really is, pays a fine of two to 20 times compared to what should be paid regularly. However, it is our philosophy that if we tighten the fines, we should give opportunity to those who have so far failed to fulfil their obligations to the state to report their assets. All those who, by 31 January 2005, will not pay tax until 31 January 2004, nor will any criminal proceedings be initiated against them. In other words, we are prepared to forget everything, but since 31 January 2005, we want everyone to report the property, whether they built a loft, built a floor, bought a garage, or if they didn't report any property at all. Tax rates for small values remain the same, compared to other countries are not high rates, 50 percent higher for richer ones, but we want everyone in Serbia to report their assets as of 1 February 2005, so we all publicly call on them to do so. He who doesn't do it pays up to 20 times the penalty of what he would really pay. We have fair treatment, we give a deadline over a month to make applications, no sanctions, no names and nothing. We just want to start over next year and put everything in an equal position. This is a more significant team, given that the property tax is the full income of local self-government. So all the money paid from the property tax exclusively goes to local budgets, or city budgets. The third law, which is before us, is the law on amendments to the Excise Act. Here are the most important newspapers, in fact, the removal of excise duty on diesel fuel for tractor propulsion used by farmers registered in the register of agricultural landowners; then, fuel for the propulsion of construction machinery, as well as river cargo ships, provided that this fuel is sold through an authorised distributor. How is this going to work in practice? All farmers registered in the register of agricultural holdings will be set standards according to the country's surface, as much fuel as it takes to carry out certain works, for this amount of fuel will not be charged with excise duty. Of course, one of the peasants can ask for more fuel than he needs under the norms to perform the proper work. For that larger amount of normative he can buy normally, but he'll pay for the excise. In practice, this system will function by paying the excise fee to the budget by the authorised distributor, and then, based on the records of how many peasants are sold, the refund of excise duties to authorised distributors is carried out. Sublaws are already ready and this will be in force as of January 1st, if this assembly, as we hope, adopts this law. A similar mechanism applies to both construction machinery and cargo transport ships. I repeat, this way, there will be a reduction in retail fuel prices for these consumers by about 30%, thus reducing costs in the economy, agriculture, construction and river transport, which we want to stimulate, because it is quite cheap and it seems to me that in the future it can become, in addition to rail traffic, very important for the overall economic development of the country. As for the other changes, we propose in this law to define certain concepts relating to excise warehouses, to payment obligations, to the billing of excise payments. There is one change in compliance with new rules on the production, transport and quality of alcoholic beverages. Namely, after the last amendment of the Excise Act, the Ministry of Agriculture adopted a new regulation on the production, transport and quality of alcoholic beverages and in a different way sorted all drinks, so that we now comply with that rule. What are the changes in practice? Excise on gin and cognac will, according to these regulations, be paid at 85 dinars, and now 134 dinars are paid. So there's going to be a lower excise on gin and cognac, but that's why there's going to be a higher excise on rum, tequila and arab. From the current 85 dinars, it goes up to 136 dinars. This way, advertising is done, and essentially neutral effects on the budget. In the case of excise duties on cigarettes, the obligation under the current law is waived that manufacturers, or importers, also account for excise stamps before taking over, already retains the current situation, which is valid until 2005, to pay every 15th and 30th of the month. The paper is that it is required from importers and cigarette manufacturers that retail prices of cigarettes must be highlighted on the retail facility, so that they are clearly visible to consumers of tobacco products. The following are drastic penalties for those retail facilities which clearly do not highlight the price of tobacco products. It was in practice that one price is applied to the tobacco agency, that one price is paid for the tax on transport and excise duty, and at the very other price is sold to consumers. This will make it easier to control. Also, the paper is that new excise stamps, which will be protected by a hologram, will be introduced as of January 1st, so that there will be no counterfeiting of them, as observed in the previous period. Otherwise, I have to say that currently cigarette smuggling is reduced to between 5% and 7% of total cigarette traffic, which is significantly lower than what we had in the 1990s, when 70 to 80% of total traffic was in the black zone. I have to say that this is the lowest rate of gray tobacco market in Southeast Europe and, on the other hand, much lower than even in some developed countries, such as Great Britain. The next law, which is before you, is the fiscal register law. As you know, since 1 January 2005, sales tax has been abolished, the value added tax is effective instead. Given that the existing Transport Tax Act, which has been put out of effect since 1 January, there has been a legal basis for regulating the way in which goods are registered through fiscal registers, there was also a need to pass a special law that will be regulated by this area and, behold, it is now before you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. As far as the law itself is concerned, he is of a technical nature. You will see that it contains a series of provisions regarding the obligation to borrow through fiscal registers, for the content of fiscal cuts, for mandatory additional equipment, for optional additional equipment, for refunding, for independent operations, for those who bought fiscal cash registers. It's all about control and sanctions. Of course, the law provides for rigorous sanctions for those who do not register traffic through fiscal registers. As you know, we've been very closely controlling the use of these devices this year. I have to say, when this government took responsibility, there were only 1% of installed fiscal registers on the ground. Today, there are around 160,000 fiscal registers in Serbia on the ground. So, 160,000 fiscal bills for 115,000 taxpayers. I don't know if that's the maximum, but the controls will, over the next year, get to the final number. I have to say that, thanks to the introduction of fiscal cash registers, today we have a chance to talk about tax cuts, because recording through fiscal registers has significantly improved the revenues of the republican budget. By the way, we can lower some taxes. What today is a fact, is that even today, even though we do have strict controls and a large number of objects are closed in the process of control because they did not enforce the law, a good part of the taxpayer does not issue permanent fiscal accounts. We therefore provided for in this law and the obligation to introduce additional equipment for fiscal cash registers from 31 March of the following year, which is a terminal for remote reading of all daily accounts of the fiscal register for the given period. We'll finance it from the budget for all those who can't pay for it. What's the bottom line? At any moment, the tax administration, without physical control, will know how much of the store, the hair salon, the store, the issue of fiscal cuts, and it will compare to previous periods. Where there are great disagreements, there will be controls. In other words, if we have, say, the municipality of New Belgrade, it won't be necessary for people from the municipality of New Belgrade to go to a specific store, but only by entering the software to know whether the X-File issues five sections a day, 20, 100. You'll see exactly the records of every store without being physically in the store. So, with the introduction of this terminal, there is no longer any possibility of partial issue of an account. Every bill will have to be issued, and the money of which, of course, goes to schools, hospitals, social protection, pensions, so to the budget. In this way, next year, I can guarantee it, we're 100% tax control at all of the facilities that have the obligation to register with fiscal cash registers. I am grateful to the MPs that everyone has supported this provision, because no amendment has arrived on this article and indeed, I think the time has come to introduce order into this area. As far as the other two laws are concerned, I'll try as soon as I can to present them. First, it is a law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia. It's an old debt of 20 billion dinars, consisting of three parts. These are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia of 17 billion dinars, which occurred in 2001-2002 based on the borrowing of the budget of the National Bank of Serbia. So the budget was in debt, and the money didn't go back to the National Bank in 2001 and 2002. The total amount of interest is 17 billion dinars. Also, these are the obligations of the EPS Public Enterprise of about a billion and 900 million dinars, as well as the obligations of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate based on long-term credit and interest, actually incurred between 1994 and 1997. In this way, this debt exists, it is recorded as a public debt. The finance ministry gave all the MPs the table through the Finance Committee. We just want to create a legal basis for the issue of bonds, long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia that will serve, among other things, the National Bank of Serbia, to start with January 1st, 2005. It's open market operations, it's a modern way of regulating the amount of money in circulation. Now there are very few long-term securities on our market and these are just old savings bonds. With one such instrument, amounting to nearly 20 billion dinars, there are conditions for operating on the open market, so-called. The repo business of the National Bank. As far as the debt payment structure is concerned, the debt would be paid within six years with an interest of 8.5% a year and within the next maturity deadlines. So by 31 December 2006, three billion would reach and be paid; 31 December 2007, a total of six billion, means cumulative; and 31 December 2010, ten billion and 700. This is a bond structure, and the decision to issue long-term bonds will take place after the adoption of this law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law. Otherwise, these bonds will be able to trade on the capital market, as well as on old foreign exchange bonds, and will be long-term bonds that will be on the name and will be transferable, and interest coupons will reach 30 June and 30 December, respectively, on 31 December of each year, with the deadline of maturity of the bond, with the first interest coupon reaching 30 June 2005, so six months is the grace period. So, I repeat, it's about already existing liabilities that are repacked in this way into bonds and that enables the capital market through repo-ops, first of all, the National Bank, but also trade in these capital market charters. Finally, before the MPs there is a tax law on non-life insurance premiums. The reason for the law is also the abolition of the Transport Tax Act. When the basis for the tax on sales of insurance premiums ceased, it was 20% so far, and most countries have moved to the system of taxation through value added tax, all have regulated the area of insurance taxation in a special way. You can ask yourself why only the tax on non-life premiums and not life insurance, because we want to stimulate the development of long-term insurance such as life insurance, because it's a very important kind of development in this activity. As far as the tax rate is concerned, we have suggested that the insurance premium tax is paid at 5%, which is some of the lower rates that are currently in force in Europe, where it is even higher and is up to 8% or 9%. Also, there is a proper tax exemption in this law. So this tax wouldn't pay the DKP, but on the condition of reciprocity, so if we had the same conditions in other countries. Also, the insurance premium tax would not be paid in insurance against the consequences of an accident in insurance against occupational injury and occupational illnesses, voluntary health insurance and motor vehicle insurance, covering damage to its own drive, i.e. the loss of those vehicles, but owned by persons with disabilities. I must say that yesterday, on the Finance Committee, we accepted an amendment that freed these obligations from long-term housing loans, the insurance of export credits and at all the loans paid back in the wars, and that was the opposition's proposal, and the government accepted it, because, I must admit, we forgot to install it ourselves, and we wanted to encourage the work of these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that would be the shortest for these six draft laws. I think it paid off that we started a sharp downsizing in public spending in July. We've come to a situation, so when we can finally talk about tax cuts, because I'm convinced that this year's deficit is going to be far lower than what happened last year. Last year, to remind you, the deficit was 43 billion, and this year it will be 20 billion less. So twenty billion in nominal amount this government saved the state from the previous one, and that's an opportunity for us to take action with words and turn that savings into a tax reduction for farmers, for those who hire people not to pay this kind of salary tax and, of course, for all of these others. So let's move on with our strategy. We save on expenditures, we lower taxes, because the apparent growth based on increasing public spending is the past. All those who have spoken in the past, and some say in the present, that economic development needs to be based by having great expenditures, they are wrong, because, if there is, big expenditures have to be based on big taxes. So, high taxes are simply necessary to have high expenditures and the only way that a country that has gone through a crisis like Serbia is to go completely upside down, which is to lower expenditure, so tax cuts, and new expenditure cuts, a new wave of tax cuts. I can promise you, because I am convinced that the introduction of a value added tax will further strengthen the budget register in the coming year, that by the middle of next year we will meet again in this place and that we will then consider a new set of tax laws that will lower taxes. I hope that all MP groups will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10024	To inform you that for this item of the agenda, the authorised representative for the DSS is MP Slavoljub Matic, for DS - Boris Tadic is Aleksandar Vlahovic, for the SPO - NS is the National MP Sanja Cekovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Excuse me, just a minute, let's take it in a row. Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, I would like to comment on the proposed laws that Mr. Minister has explained exhaustively. First, I should say, also on behalf of the Democratic Party, that as regards the strategy for reducing public expenditure, and then behind that reduction in taxation, Mr. Minister and his strategy have absolutely no problems with the Democratic Party. It seems to me that words from this pay phone are addressed to some coalition partners who are now supporting the government, who, contrary to the view that there is no reduction in the tax burden without a previous decrease in public spending, are just placing a different policy in the public, which implies creating a demand for increased public expenditures, known from the time of the major global economic crisis from 1929 to 1934. There's a Mr. Minister absolutely right. The Kenyan policy today cannot go exactly because significantly increased public spending cannot be absorbed by domestic offer and that this increase in public spending has a key negative effect, which is a drastic increase in the external trade deficit, and then if it does not make a radical cut through the reduction of public spending, I fear that this spiral is getting bigger and bigger from year to year, and that we are eventually entering a difficult crisis, which results in a severe debt crisis. That is why, as early as March, when the 2004 budget was passed, we warned that it was not possible to reduce the tax burden on the economy without at the same time entering a reduction in public spending and now we do not want to be wrong. We welcome the decision to drastically reduce the number of employees in the state administration, as already announced by the government, to enter into the restructuring of large public enterprises, to reduce the level of public spending in health, education, other public activities, in order to create a real basis for reducing the tax burden on the economy. Since today the theme is six total laws, four of which are tax and crucial, I will make a brief comment on these laws. First, let me say that the Democratic Party will vote for all six proposed laws and there are several reasons why we explain our position that we will vote for four taxes plus two additional laws. First, this was the plan of the previous government to, at one point in time, introduce a value added tax to change these tax laws, more specifically to obtain a proper tax charge, and in no case should this be declared as being a dramaticly large tax charge. I'd rather say it's cosmetic measures, which will only result in a somewhat reduced tax burden. However, regardless of what we did in the previous period, we participated in writing a proposal to amend the Law on property taxes, then on taxes on citizens' income, then amending the Act on Excises, I still have to point out on behalf of the parliamentary group the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - to the corresponding gaps that have been undermined in the text of the law. I'll start with the property tax first. First of all, a well-intentioned remark, that the text of the law must be corrected everywhere where the finance minister writes that the minister in charge of finance affairs, since the names of the ministries are subject to change, changes in the name of the ministries will unfortunately and amend the law and then the Assembly will sit and discuss these formal matters needlessly. Let's start with the property tax. In Article 9, and that's what we don't understand, why it went into the change described in Article 9, which is tanging the existing Article 12. The property tax law, why point 5) of Article 12(1), which taxfully states which users are exempt from paying tax on property, in addition to direct budget users, and in the previous text it was written - education, culture, scientific, social, health, humanitarian or sports purposes, so the property used for these purposes, why it is said instead that the property tax is not paid for the rights of immovable property used directly and indirectly by the beneficiaries of the budget according to the regulations, etc. What do I want to say? The indirect beneficiary of the budget is also enterprises through the receipt of budgetary subsidies. Does this mean that these companies, since indirect beneficiaries of the budget, will be exempt from the property tax? That's not good. In the market economy, it is not good to introduce tax discrimination between companies, depending on whether they are in this or that ownership type or in a better or worse financial condition. We think it would be better if this member of the law, therefore the existing Article 12, had not been changed, because this way introduced a broad interpretation that all indirect budget users could be exempt from paying the property tax. This can indeed, in one broad interpretation, lead to a large tax gap, i.e. avoiding tax payments that are legally legalised in this way. As far as the income tax is concerned, we have an objection precisely to a member who here the minister explained as a special contribution from the ministry to expanding the tax base. First, I comment on the Democratic Party's point of view that the fact that self-activities were previously classified into six groups did not complicate the tax administration's work, as it was precisely defined groups, depending on the recognised normised costs. Recognising the normised costs that are deducted from the total tax base are defined precisely on the basis of activity. We really don't understand how the normised cost of escrow from the existing 10% was raised to 40% and how the estherade was combined with other independent actions, where the normised costs are far higher. It would be good to explain what 40% of the standard cost of escarpment means. I'd like to hear what it is that can be included in the normized costs, so there's a real explanation for raising the normable costs. If it is already to be entered into the scope, i.e. the expansion of the tax base by this tax instrument, then it is much better to do so with a stimulating tax rate, as is done in taxing transfers, i.e. the income of citizens in sports activities, of course with another law. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, I would like to say that the Democratic Party, as we have just said, has several principled objections. First, Article 1a of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, in paragraph 2, is quite vaguely formulating what cigarettes are considered to be produced in the country. It is said that cigarettes produced in the country are also considered cigarettes from another producer, which produced at least two and a half billion pieces of cigarettes annually, containing at least 50% of tobacco produced and processed in the Republic of Serbia and were first placed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So it's about manufacturers who are off the register already defined by the tobacco agency. What does it mean in a specific case? It means that it can be built in the border zone, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, anywhere, to buy 50% of tobacco from Serbia, so that the bought tobacco is processed in capacities not located in Serbia and that goods produced in these facilities are treated as domestic products. I'm not sure this is a happy solution. This, I'm afraid, opens a hole in a very arranged space such as tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco products. I'm afraid this will go hand in hand to smugglers. Yes, I understand the desire to stimulate increased production of raw tobacco in our country, but believe me, the tobacco industry Nis, or the tobacco industry Vranje, did not buy more than 50% or 60% of domestic raw tobacco for its own purposes before or after privatisation. We cannot put the capacity on Serbia's territory in the same level with the capacity that can possibly be found outside the borders or perhaps thought of something else. I allow that we have misread a member, but this text makes it clear that it treats equal status to be obtained by a producer who is not in our territory, obviously, because there is no clarification, which uses 50% of the raw tobacco used to produce cigarettes. Also, on Article 11, I am expressing a principled remark as to why the National Bank, i.e. the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins, has a monopoly on the printing of excise stamps. And then, and even today, we are in order for the printing of excise stamps to be organised by a tender procedure, so that the state of Serbia, the budget users paid as little as possible for this cost as possible. If we were able to introduce the Public Procurement Act and force all the beneficiaries of the budget, all the public enterprises to go through one very sharp and very carefully designed procedure of public procurement, it seems to me that it is the main order that even then the state, which has some capacity in its possession, puts them in equal treatment with other bidders to perform this service. Therefore, once again I say, I think it's a much happier solution to organise a tender, so who gives a cheaper offer of the same quality, it's he who has rights, or gets a job to print excise stamps. Also, in Article 15, this new member of 21a, I must admit that we did not understand what Article 21a means, and I would like Mr. Minister to explain to us, and this member says that the obligation to charge excise duties on imports of excise products occurs on the day of the initiation of the obligation to charge import duties without this being valid for coffee (serious, fried, milled) where the excise duty is made on imports. With all due attention, the knowledge we have about the customs procedure, the method of reckoning, etc. We really need a broader explanation of what this means, why coffee is only applied differently. Probably there's a reason, we're not saying it shouldn't stand, but we're looking for an additional explanation. We express a real surprise as to why, in article 19, it was given the right to the tax administration, the central to run the liquor producer's register. A few months ago, we had a debate in this assembly about the Law on Business Registers and the Law on the Agency for Registration of Business Entities. If we already have a license plate, and I'm going to say something about it later, then it's perfectly normal that we don't double one job and take it to two places. The tax administration may, at any time in one regulated register of economic operators, obtain all information on the producers of alcoholic beverages. We feel that this is unnecessary, that the tax administration is still young, underprivileged, insufficient capacity and that a single job more is merely counterproductive to the realisation of this law. When it comes to fiscal cash registers or fiscal cash registers, I would like to say that we are in principle against Article 3(4). Article 3(4) allows the Minister of Finance to decide on a proposal from the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services on which activity in autonomous activity does not have to use fiscal cash registers. We have been talking all the time for the last three years that the state has to deprive discretionary rights, that executive power must reduce discretionary rights and places of discretionary decision, because it is known to be a key source of systemic corruption. Whenever you have the possibility that a man or a few decide whether someone will get something, whether to have a license, whether to be free of the introduction of fiscal registers, etc., then there is the possibility of systemic corruption. This would be much better if we had a law that does not write by the minister, because I did not have the text of the law at this time, but the Government writes, but whatever it is that the Assembly adopts a legal act and the Assembly needs to define what actions are within the framework of self-operation, namely what it is called an independent exercise of the work, which must be freed from the obligation to introduce fiscal cash registers, and not that the government subsequently decides. Who guarantees us that, on the basis of that same Article 3, this time in the form of a government decision or a government conclusion, which is recently modern, some other actions will not be excluded from the obligation to introduce fiscal tills and this can change every Thursday when the government has its session. It would be good to have the most legislative body in one country, which is the National Assembly. I must say, we also express our principled opposition to defining a wide range of actions that don't have to use fiscal cash registers. This kind of goes against the general principle that the government allegedly has, and this is defined by the finance minister, which is the principle of saving, the principle of tightening, the principle of forming the real picture that the level of taxpayers have. This wide-ranging release is to accommodate these actions that are obviously very important, which are obviously very important and strong interest groups when they have been able to crack the obligation, i.e. to free themselves from the obligation to introduce fiscal registers. Now those who have fiscal cash registers can rightly say – and why not, and we must have fiscal cash registers, and the introduction of this discriminatory discrimination in the application of one member of this law, that is, the purpose of this law always gives rise to suspicion that the government has caved in to the pressure of the relevant lobbyes. But all of our remarks that we have made here, even where the issues of interpretation are open, are truly very well-intentioned, because this is about laws that were laid down in 2001 in the first cycle of tax reform. It is quite to expect that the amendments come at the moment of the introduction of the Law on Value Added Tax. I didn't really understand the need to amend and supplement the laws, which, in the sense of tax liberation, are really cosmetic rather than fundamental changes, because it will not lead to the drastic release of the taxpayers, on the contrary, why it was necessary to use the maltenes for almost an hour to explain not the successes, but what will happen again, promises to make it better. Indeed appreciating the most sincere, efforts made by the Ministry of Finance to continue the tax reform, the need to achieve a strong budget limit at the macro-level, but unfortunately some other results say that no matter how tight you are in economic policy, budgetary policy, sound, rigid budgetary policy, you are trying to maintain macroeconomic stability, there is a whole range of other fields where this macroeconomic stability is stabilised and stabilised. And now I can be happy when the minister says there's going to be a tax on property sales. But, Mr. Minister, I'm afraid you've already abolished the financial market, so the elimination of the value of paper tax is really just one cosmetic thing that's being realized and I welcome that decision to abolish the value of paper sales tax. Then, if we say - we need a stable environment, or we're going to achieve, I don't know, the promised results next year, then I have to warn the National Assembly and the public that we already have a problem today because we don't have the necessary institutions for the daily functioning of the economy. Here, I'll say what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10026	Mr. Vlahovic, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10027	Here, I'm done. I mean, specifically, the registration of economic operators. As you know, by applying the law on companies, trade courts now, informally, refuse to make changes in the registration of enterprises, changes in status, forms of capital. As of 1 January, a new law on economic registration shall enter into force. There's no business registration agency in sight. We, my people, will have a vacuum in registering new businesses and that will be a big problem. And, then, these tax incentives, solid budgetary policies, won't be much help to the consistent economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10028	Here, the word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10029	Here's to taking the opportunity to thank you first, and as for the criticism to answer. You're saying that the previous government intended to do that and that, it intended the same laws to pass, and I wonder why she didn't do it. You keep talking in the past tense -- we wanted it, we wanted it, and last year the budget deficit ended with 43 billion. So, a 43 billion budget hole, and today we have 23, which means 20 billion less than last year. I wonder if you wanted to do it, why didn't you? That's the only question. You know, Mr. Vlahovic, that saying "the road to hell is paved by good intentions". It's possible that this is too hard for that formulation. You may have had good intentions, but I don't know why you didn't implement them. We're not talking about the future here. We're talking about the present. Today we have 20 billion lower deficits than it was last year. It's not some future, it's the present. We're talking about tax release today, not cosmetics. Billions of dinars will be tax bonds released from January 1st, and on January 1st is not in five years, it is less than 30 days. It's nice that there were intentions, but let's be objective, say who, why, and how he didn't want to do it. It's not done. Whether they were intentions or not, they wanted this, they wanted it, and we would have done it, and we warned, etc. Well, you know what, many have warned that public spending needs to be reduced. This is the first government in Serbia that has managed to reduce it. A lot of people talked about having to reduce public spending, so it was never lower. I thank you again for your commendation, but let's talk about criticism balancedly. You mentioned estradius. I don't know if you accidentally or intentionally, why you've given so much attention, and you've been wondering what the normized costs are and why we're increasing the standard cost of the estradius from 10% to 40%. Here, I'll explain what standard costs are. These are fixed costs that artists have in creating their works. Vajari have materials that practice sculptures, and estrad also has some fixed costs. It's costumes, makeup, all of what they use as material costs to run their programs. Now I'm asking you, when you say -- you shouldn't have touched those normized costs, so today, with the existing law that your government passed, 92 dinars should be the one who's on the estradi to pay on 100 dinars of copyright fee. Who's gonna pay for that? Do you really believe that someone will pay 92 dinars of tax on 100 dinars of fee? That's not possible. Nobody pays for it. What's worth to us is an existing provision from your law, that it's 92 dinars, and I remember the previous minister saying -- now we're going to be taxing, and in fact there's no mechanism in the law that you can charge for it. There's no sanction if they don't pay for it. We're doing the exact opposite now. We're double-cutting. Now they have to pay instead of 92 dinars 47 dinars per 100 dinars. So 47% is lower, but we want to charge for it. We don't just want to have it on paper and law. That's why we're introducing this register. Everyone has to sign contracts that they conclude with people with estherade, and we're not going to chase artists, football players and others, magicians and the like, but we're just going to control those who need to close the deal with them, and that way we're going to come up with something more intelligent in a far greater way than our intention in the current bill. As far as cigarette excise matters are concerned, you said you didn't understand why. You do not understand what domestic producers are and why there must be 2.5 million pieces of cigarettes a year and 50% to buy tobacco on the domestic market. Because, under the current conditions, if they did not pass the law, as you know, Serbia has concluded free trade agreements with Croatia, Bosnia and with many other countries, where Croatian cigarettes are treated as domestic products. Sure. We know what kind of problems we have in communicating with these countries' governments. So these are free trade contracts, and to limit me, even though you have a good intention in intensity this time, right on the wave of your ideas we now say -- well, when we already have a free trade contract, then at least let them buy 50% of the domestic tobacco at least, and they have to produce so much and so much cigarettes. Otherwise, if there was no provision, they would still be treated as domestic producers under free trade contracts. So this is an explanation, because you said you didn't understand. It's possible it wasn't clearly explained. I think I also needed to give the MPs this explanation. Your next question was - why does the NBS get a monopoly position to print excise stamps. I must tell you openly - because we purposely wanted it. What a shame it is that our national bank, which has such equipment as it has, which has such a frame as it has, print excise stamps and thus generates revenue. Well, if that's what the National Bank of Germany does, or the National Bank of Austria, are we to be the only one smart and to print excise stamps for cigarettes instead of our national bank to give it to foreigners to do. I don't think you're right about that. We gave a deliberate monopoly position to the NBS for two reasons. First because it's ours and second because that's how we control this sensitive area 100%. Let's let the stranger give the importers excise stamps - how do we know they'll give us good records and print. It is our motive for the state institution to do so, especially since the National Bank of Serbia, you know it well, has the best equipment and belongs to the three best printers in Europe, and there is no reason not to engage domestic potentials, but to call tenders and to go to foreigners. It's not our invention. That's what the Germans and the Austrians do, the British do. I know that many, probably foreigners who have contacted you, and want to eventually print it to someone else, but we believe that the National Bank of Serbia should have an exclusive monopoly. Secondly, as far as the liquor producer's register is concerned, you ask why the liquor producer's register is with the tax administration, not the company's law. Because today there are a lot of liquor producers, especially in Vojvodina, who are completely uncontrollably selling alcohol on our market. I'm not talking about peasants who bake schnapps and sell each other or when a passenger comes on purpose, I'm talking about those who sell in stores and who don't actually pay for that excise, nor is there an adequate quality of the goods being controlled. Because the excise is the original income of the finance ministry's budget, so it's perfectly natural to run it there, besides this register that only applies to registration; so why, for example, someone who runs the business register would be motivated to control how much someone paid for the alcohol excise. They have no motive. So because it's a excise on alcohol, that's why the tax administration has to put order in there. This refers to the excise duty on the alcohol of those who sell to entrepreneurs or stores for further sale. It's perfectly natural that we want to control the collection of excise duties on alcohol, as well as the collection of other excise duties. Indeed, what you said, Mr. Vlahovic, is that the tax administration is young and impertinent. It is true that we can do far better and it is true that I am not satisfied with the work of the tax administration until the end, but certainly, with 21 percent of the growth in tax revenues this year, it is the tax administration that is still one step better than the one we inherited and I guarantee you, especially with the new modern fiscal cash register law, that it will be far more effective next year. Besides, you know for yourself, and you heard maybe, maybe not, the fact that the tax administration's award game for fiscal accounts in the last round has been reported by 830,000 people, 830,000 envelopes with 50 slices coming in, says the tax administration has growing confidence. I think we've done maybe not two, but one step ahead. I agree with you that we can do better, but I don't agree that we shouldn't burden them, they have to work. It's their job. That's what they're paid for. They have better salaries than ministers, which is good. They have to work even better. As for the broad powers that the Government can make a decision on possible releases from the introduction of fiscal tills and with your personal disagreement as to why some of the actions have been released, I need to establish one non-consistency between you, as a representative of your party, and the gentleman from your party who has submitted the amendment and who is seeking a new release. Namely, I don't know if you've met, but your colleague, Mr. Bosko Ristic, has submitted an amendment asking the fleas to free the fiscal registers. You're saying now that you've freed, I don't know, these, they don't need that much release, and your MP, if he's your MP, is asking for additional freedoms for fleas to be given. It's not fair, because if small independent trades have to have fiscal cash registers today, if a hairdresser has to, a pharmacist, why would people who work on fleas be free of it. We want to put everything in the same treatment, it'll register. We made a deal with them today, with the flea trade unions, and most simply, as of January 1st, they'll be making a list of their goods. We won't give them any taxes on what we find charging, similar to that of the property tax, but as of January 1st, the brand new rules have come. This means that today when someone imported the goods he intended for the flea market, he paid customs, but he didn't pay sales tax, but made an invoice on some fictitious phantom company. Since the new year, however, there have been no more sales taxes and there is no way to avoid them and to be immediately at the border for import goods of accounting and customs and additional value tax. The motive and difference in price that has been created in fleas is completely lost. Of course, it's going to be a smuggling. Of course, it's not even easy to root it out, so we want to keep the others in the same position. My proposal, Mr Vlahovic, is, suggest, to Mr Ristic, a member of your parliamentary group, to withdraw the amendment to free the fleas from the introduction of fiscal registers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-07-0.u10030	Thank you. We interrupt today's work. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
