ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9141	Honored Presidency, Honorable People's MPs, Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 100. - I am Dr Ljubisa Djokovic, MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica of the Kings. Today's list "Kurir" published my picture with an offensive text, under which it reads "Prefect Dragisa Djokovic", with my picture. I want to talk to the public and my voters, who have been calling on the phone all morning. They can't believe it's possible and for these reasons, I'm talking to the public, and my former counterpart Dragisa Djokovic -- if he changed his party, which he didn't change his last name, so he doesn't embarrass me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9142	Mr. Djokovic, I hope you're not asking the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) At the same time, I warn you that you too are subject to article 100. So, when it comes to Mr. Djokovic, he was an MP in this assembly until he resigned and there is no reason to talk about people's last names. We're continuing our work. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and let the MP Milica Gavrilovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us in Serbia are in a fateful interest, and I assume you MPs in the Assembly, what this budget will bring after the inaugural presentation of Minister Dinkic in real economic, social and other flows, i.e. all aspects of achieving the proposed goals, what is intended in it for unrealistic ambition and what is a purely virtuality. In this context, Serbian Radicals warned about the assembly speaker, and in the next discussions of my colleagues, related to the budget for next year, this will be done. It will be warned of the abundance of ambiguities, inconsistencies, contradictions, anarchic and non-economic content. With that in mind, I would like to warn the following -- the proposed budget, as well as the recent adopted budget rebalancing, is moving Serbia from the general economic and social objectives, the accelerated transition, and the way in which the budget is being filled is aimed at destroying qualitative development and progress factors. Minister Dinkic has promised and characterised them as social and developmental when adopting this year's budget and budget today. According to us, there is no economic indicator or economic and social facts that have confirmed this year the sustainability of these publicly expressed budget expectations and the ministers' promises. On the contrary, inexorable are the economic facts that say it's politics or ideological flossula. In my discussion about budget rebalancing about a month ago, I challenged these views. I said, and I'm saying today for next year's budget, that the budget has been transformed into a destructive one. We have before us a budget that envisions a mass of 396 billion dinars and 20.5 billion deficits. I will remind you that the budget deficit reduction for this year is essentially meeting the IMF's demands, and so is the deficit for next year. Since 2001, we have opposed the abundance of arguments to a high, unacceptable and economically unwarranted and unargumented deficit. At the same time, we have been critical of the sources of deficits, and in particular that it is covered by revenues from privatisation, borrowing or domestic loans. Radicals also consider it now and ask Minister Dinkic how many of these sources of deficits are from DOS's arrival to power, as it is clear to all that the revenues from privatisation are irrevocably spent through the budget for non-productive purposes. The 404 billion dinar budget acts as a elemental disaster on the economic potential of all those subjects filling its contents, while at the same time being the bearers of economic and social transition, social development, the reality of the transition, etc., the possibility of exiting the deep sink and the crisis in which Serbia is located. The reality of charging like this and this many projected budgets is more utopia than reality. His money foundation will fail. The proposed budgeting concept is based on a series of newspapers, i.e. the relative reform approach. For example, new forms of endless tax reform, and in particular the introduction of value added tax. Then there is also a non-economic tendency to access the purchase of products and services, and others. Of course, it is about increasing the isolation of businesses and citizens, increasing the price of products and services, which, contrary to promises, will not stop the grey economy, bribery and corruption. Here I warn of general chaos in the application of legal definitions in the area of public finances, which always include both public spending policy and practice. It is about all expenditure, policy of constitution and alimony as the needs of those segments of the state apparatus and of the work that are financed in the form of public spending i.e. from budget funds. They're for example. National defence, prosecution, judiciary, authorities, public administrations and other expenditure at all levels of territorial and functional organisation of state affairs, from municipality to federal state, in the performance of constitutional and legal state functions. I would especially like to highlight two unsustainables. First, the current budgetary policy problems related to proposals from economic classification 42 – budget funds for local self-government, which are directed across the county. Budgetary, it's been a practice since 2001, leading the policy of so-called the budget penalties of those municipalities that are not in the ruling coalition. It is, at the very least, inadmissible to us, as well as catastrophic to the regional constitution and the development of potential at the level of municipalities. A number of municipalities have been punished for showing confidence in the latest elections by opposition parties or coalitions. We will see how the city of Belgrade will budgetally treat the municipality of Zemun or the municipality of Surcin this year. It can be concluded that the realisation of the legal provisions is that the municipality "gets" part of the revenues from the Republic and the city of Belgrade's budget to meet its obligations, in an almost non-refundable crisis. It is placed as a strong expressed problem, which is related to the financial and privatisation sector in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as when the realised segment of the legal obligations related to privatisation is paid to municipalities. It's about funds belonging to municipalities and cities. In this sector, economic and budgetary policies are, in our opinion, unauthorized chaos. Why is it not directly paid by part of the privatisation funds to municipalities? What about companies that have branches in many municipalities in our Republic? The issues are getting lower, and the problems are increasing. Secondly, the next problem I want to point out, in the debate on budget rebalancing for this year, which was otherwise delayed, we have paid particular attention to the consequences of Serbia-Montenegro's military, and I have to do so today, because by September this year, 100% of the budget rebalancing was spent for this year. The budget for the Vojsci did not respect this year's inflation, and we warn that the budget funds are accounted for by 43,000 people, and only the professional composition of the military numbers 45,000 people, so a legitimate question arises, what about those soldiers, who have about 30,000, who go to regular military service, who will finance them. We can't see from the budget that it's planned. So from what sources and how will their expenses be paid? No budgets for 2005 have been provided to equip new modern funds, nor money to modernise existing weapons and military equipment, and seek to reduce the number of soldiers, based on the modernisation of weapons. Furthermore, the item on social contributions of employees in Serbia-Montenegro has been increased by about 10 times, and we see there will be mass layoffs in the military. The draft budget does not increase funding for military pensions, and mass retirement is announced in 2005. The SRS warns that about 40,000 people have been sued or prepared to sue the state for unpaid salaries under the Army Law, members of the monetary incomes. It's about coefficients 1:3, at least five, Article 137. The Serbia-Montenegro Army Act. It's the 1994 law, with the 2002 changes. So, where to secure a possible compensation if the court rulings are executed, and if we know that it is in general around two annual budgets of Serbia designed for 2005. I note that there are already numerous verdicts whose execution is pending. All who carefully analyse items intended for the military budget are asked an imminent question, where this budgetary policy leads and whether this is an adequate attitude towards the military, whether these financial experiments are coordinated with current political actions to almost completely destroy the military, and that, for example, in Kosovo and Metohija, there are more Albanian formations than there are waxes in Serbia-Montenegro. Is the budgetary strategy to be destroyed, not reformed and modernised by the military? This concept of budget is unsustainable, destructive and anti-reformal to us. Our assessment is that this concept of the budget is another lost year for the economy, for the intensity of development and for the socio-economic position of citizens. We warn of the danger of worsening the situation of pensioners, unemployed and social assistance users. In our opinion, this year's budget is undoubtedly inflatable. The inflation foreseen for this year 2004 was more than incorrect and accountingly miscalculated. It's estimated to be 11.8% this year, and that's far from some real inflational price hike. The incorrect assessment is that increasing inflation trends significantly contributed to the rise in world market prices of oil and base metals by around 3%. At the same time, we estimate that inflation is expected for the next year of 9.1% indeed beyond any economic assessment and calculations. According to us, our country is preying on far greater inflation. What's interesting is that charging the customs budget is less than 10%. In 2001, there was 20%, and now there are 39 billion and 200 million, and we wonder why the government and Minister Dinkic allow such non-domestic behaviour on customs, or why they do not allow most of the funds to be charged on a percentage basis by charging customs in accordance with the law. You know customs has two roles. One of these is primarily fiscal. The collection of taxes shall be filled with the budget of the Republic and, in our opinion, it is necessary, Minister, that the inspection, financial or otherwise which, budgetally, has been carried out in the last four years, determines how much the budget has been damaged by customs and that it is subsequently charged with the debt that has been taxed, because according to the customs law in force each subject matter is subject to control, the subsequent check within five years. They were created, we all know, various import lobbys, which directly involve importers, freighters, customs officers, and most of the major freighters are former customs officers or godfathers and friends of directors. In the last two years, there have been a series of affairs over imports of certain goods. I'll just count them. Let me remind you, over 3,500 containers and goods have been painted at very low prices for the last three years at the Customs office of Belgrade. You have these reports, the press pages were filled up in time, but nobody's doing anything. Criminal customs clearance of technical goods; you know how to get technical goods to customs, at the wrong rate of 1% instead of 15% and 20% tax. You don't need the money and the deficit at all, do you? Then, the export of waste material, aluminum, copper, iron. Hundreds of tows of these metals were exported four to five times lower than the real ones. In August 2003, the state introduced export rates of 15% on the export of these metals, but what is worth when invoices are reduced four to five times. The bird export affair is also well known. One conclusion about customs and the possibility to fill the budget with these funds is to increase the share of customs duties in the Republic's budget, as I said at the beginning, but I want to potential, was 29.2% in 2001, in 2003 only 10%, and in this 2005 you expect even less. So, if customs services were to be settled and they were to work properly there, our budget would be more realistic, we wouldn't have a deficit, but we don't understand why neither the Ministry nor the Government would deal with this big problem. Also, I want to remind you of one case that happened in Zemun, which is, Minister, that your inspectors blocked the account of the Public Enterprise business space, because there is no tax on renting space, which is 20% to you. I hear in the past month or months you've been in control of 100 other municipalities. Did you make them pay that tax, I don't know. You should bear in mind that this rent income is, that they have public income treatment, that this is the basic income for funding local self-government and that it is unsustainable for that income to be taxed. We simply don't know what this taxation is based on, unless you were so much in the money crisis that you had to do it in all the municipalities, so at the beginning of the year you gave us something, and then at the end of the year you took it away from us. There is one account, which is the income from borrowing; the use of immovable property in state property used by state authorities and organisations, institutions and public services financed from the Republic budget is not taxed by 20%, and the one financed from the budget of municipalities is. I would ask you for a concrete answer, given that the Transport Tax Act and Article 17(3) clearly foresees a tax exemption for services provided by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government bodies in the exercise of public office, if you would be kind. I hope I helped you, if not for this year, then to everyone else who brings the budget for the next 2006. There's a income reserve in this country, but that reserve isn't used. It's the easiest way to hit a taxpayer's pocket. The SRS cannot support this budget for these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9144	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9145	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to take the opportunity to answer some of the questions of the MP who spoke earlier. As far as army reform is concerned, it's true, yesterday I said that we were planning to start a serious military reform in 2005. In fact, you said there were 45,000 soldiers in the army. The number's different. So 45,000 is the total number of military employees currently, of which 16,000 are civilians. So about 40% in our army are civilians, which is a percentage that doesn't exist in any other country in the world. There's not a single country that's even 30, let alone 40% of civilians in the military. We have an additional 30,000 recruits and funds in the budget are provided for them. As for the item - the Social Programme for the Army, I can say that no soldiers will be fired, but 1,300 military personnel will be provided with funds for the retirement of the pension so that they can retire early. So it's about assets for 1,300 people who are less, up to 5 years old, up to retirement, so they can collect it and retire. However, the number of civilians will be reduced. I can make an open announcement. Those funds are planned in this budget. On the other hand, if you look at the size of Serbia and the number of soldiers needed to defend it, it is certain that Serbia needs a professional army that should not be more than 25,000 to 30,000 people. In other words, it is my personal opinion, there are all conditions that, in a relatively short period of time, the service of the military is completely abolished. It is my personal opinion, and I will advocate it both within my party and within the government, to make a plan to make a decision within the next year on the full abolition of the military deadline, because simply, Serbia is sufficient professional army, there is no need for recruits to go to the military. Of course, you can't do it overnight, you have to make a plan to transform the army. With 30,000 professional, well-trained soldiers, that's quite enough, by all standards, especially given that Serbia's perspective is entering the Partnership for Peace. On the other hand, as far as customs is concerned, I agree with you in one finding, and the other I disagree. I agree that customs could work far better. We gave the primate to tax administration reform this year, next year the primate will be reforming and restoring the personnel structure in customs. As for some of the failures that have been made, for example, that bird export scandal, these people have been fired. On the other hand, when another customs team found the same thing just a month later, an attempt to smuggle birds from Serbia, the press barely recorded it with a single line. So there are both negative and positive cases. Of course we'll sanction everything that's negative. As far as customs revenues are concerned, it is true that they are only a dozen percent of the total budget. I would, however, ask why the previous assembly adopted the Action Plan for Harmonising Relations with Montenegro when customs duties were drastically reduced. We today have 2,700 positions in our customs tariffs lower than the current rates in the European Union. So Serbia has some customs rates lower than the European Union. However, the previous assembly adopted the action plan and the customs tariff was not changed by the government's will. We can't expect to make more revenue in the 10% budget at low customs rates. Finally, the answer to the last question, regarding the rent tax in the municipalities. It is true that more municipalities, not to say the largest number of municipalities, violate that regulation. When municipalities rent companies a business space, it is not treated the way you said it was tax-free. On the contrary, there is a tax liability. For some reason, the former finance ministry looked at it through its fingers. We have established in budgetary control at a certain number of municipalities that there is this irregularity. We thought it only happened with them, and then we saw it was a mass rule. We're aware that municipalities can't suddenly pay off a accumulated tax debt. But we're going to make a decision in the government over the next month that this debt for all municipalities, in general, regardless of who is in these municipalities in power, is reprogrammed to a certain number of years, but from now on, it's regularly paid, because it's simply a tax liability. I asked, since I'm not a lawyer, the attorneys at the Ministry of Finance and Interpretation are decadent - to pay the rent tax when the municipality rents out property to companies. Of course, I would disagree with the findings of the previous speaker if this budget meant more taxation. On the contrary, the fact is that reducing expenditure will lead to tax cuts, as it will not be necessary to collect so many taxes to finance reduced public expenditures.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9146	According to the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralić and Aleksandar Vukic reported. Mr. Wolf is closer, if you don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100, which, apart from the MPs of the People's Republic, also subsequently refers to ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I'm asking the state government, there are some of which you can't ask for, they're irresponsible and whatever you want them to do, they'll always make a difference and do everything they can against the state. Mr. Dinkic, when you say "I'll insist and we'll do everything we can to stop military service," you draw each and every one of them in this country -- another year gets away in different ways, and don't go to the army. You're doing everything you can to defend this country in the most direct way possible. Your political commitment to the professional army, I think everyone will tell you, well, it's fine, but when it's done and when financial resources are provided, and when it's all done, when such a strategy or doctrine and defence tactics are adopted, then we can talk about it, and not like that, wait a year, there will be no more military service, and then who will go into the army? Here's a case from Grocka the other day, 16 soldiers didn't show up, thanks to such irresponsible conduct of politicians in this country, thanks to one who's not being prosecuted by the prosecutor and you won't have any support for nothing in the judiciary, because there's no prosecutor to prosecute in this country, and no one is allowed to go to court and no one is to be charged and convicted of anything. As long as you have a state prosecutor who doesn't file an ex-office for the most obvious crime with more serious consequences, with greater social danger, committed through all means of information, and no one at all. Don't play with the state. This isn't party stuff, this isn't election campaign. Our country disappears slowly, but surely, I don't need all of us to help and destroy it anymore. Yesterday I suggested to you, take it off the department of the Foreign Office, take it off the division of the President of the Republic, he doesn't even know how much money there is in the budget, I watched it last night. He doesn't know how much money he has, he says, right after the show goes into diplomatic action, and the diplomatic action was Partizan-Real in Pioneer. It was a diplomatic action. Take off that money, give it to our army, let the soldiers have to eat. Let us have more soldiers and fewer civilians to keep this relationship balanced. It is true that it is impossible to be 40% of civilian faces, not to say, I'm sorry, none of you should go to the army anymore. I know, he made a decision, no one knows alive who made the decision to get our army out of the Danube. And who made that decision? What genius did that come up with? This is important for someone to pass on to Croatia. Who these people asked, what these people were doing, who decided why they didn't meet the citizens of Serbia with that decision, how you can buy 218 cars, and for that there are, and for that you can find money, and for the army you can't find money, and that's the big problem. That's what needs to change. Don't say anything, let the soldiers go to the army, let them go to the army in the most normal way. When the state makes a different decision, the state will introduce all its citizens to that decision, ask them for trust and support to implement such a decision. Don't until then, otherwise, let's put an end to the army. And now there's going to be a police suspension, and you noticed that in some newspapers. Three times on the front page goes the text against the police, no events, in principle... (President: Time please. I'm finishing up, Mr. Markovic, it's important. After that, he'll go, and before that, you had here for the Assembly, and then you'll move on. There will be no institutions in this country that will not collapse. Our goal must not be to bring down the state. We're in opposition, but we don't want the state to collapse. We don't want the country destroyed. You must take care of that, and the assembly speaker must not be used to score petty political points, for I will tell those who are to go to the military that they will not go to the army, because they love it so much, because you have to take care of the state, of the state's interests, of the interests of this country's defence. How will it be done by an MP, or any other citizen, when the minister does not take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9148	Thank you. Please, it's not abuse, it's use, for the sake of accurate communication. I warn everyone, this applies to MPs, ministers, that they are not to be presented, regardless of what is undermining, that there are personal opinions, that, when it is not on the agenda, they do not bring up personal opinions, such as one of these. And I especially ask you, I completely understand, terribly important, we all know, we've talked about this the previous days, the heads of Parliament groups, yes, there's an attempt to tear down institutions, in a more precise order as it was mentioned today, and yesterday, and the day after that speaker. We are aware of that, it is the responsibility of the MPs not to allow it, and I even ask you, and at the cost of something that could be a good replica, in the future, to avoid and thank you for your understanding. But, please, just one finding, excuse me for saying so from this place, thanks to everyone's responsibility, because because of you, I was in the Supreme Defence Council, so, first of all, in Serbia, it was possible, not to collapse security, to pay off pensions, and your colleagues, yesterday, our colleagues, by making one decision at the level of the state community, to create the assumption that there is no realisation of the scenario, which you have pointed out as a danger, Mrs Pop-Lazic, which is that, because we are poor, we are jeopardising our security. It was created, but let's not talk today, please, more about it, especially when irresponsible people draw memories of two young men, in every way, trying to bring down an army. I know we're here undivided, we won't talk about it. Thank you so much for understanding. One more time, I'm sorry. Are you still in the Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly accurately regulate that MPs and other participants in the debate can only speak about what is on the agenda. So, very briefly, given that you, Mr. President, have said a few things that I intended to say. If this issue is to be discussed, and a debate is needed and a political consensus is needed, then it should be opened properly, with appropriate and legitimate participants. Serbia-Montenegro's military is an armed force, a monopoly over the use of force has a state. The legitimate right to do so on behalf of the state has a political authority that has at that time legitimacy, therefore, that it can make decisions on the use of the military. Also, I want to say the next thing. Thirty thousand soldiers, gentlemen, are the formations of the Corps, and that was just a year ago the Uzi Corps was numbering. In the last three years, a few things have happened. We've abolished the First, Second and Third Army. We've abolished the Drin Division and the Kragujeva Corps. We've done a whole series of things that, from historical, national and defence and every other point of view, have and can have unspeakable consequences. If at this time 50,000 NATO soldiers in Kosovo cannot keep under the control of terrorists, how can they believe that 30,000 soldiers in Serbia, which I have the best possible opinion of, can, if God does not come to such a position, do so effectively in this space. So I ask everyone with extreme seriousness and responsibility, first of all, the place and position he is in, to talk about this, and to do everything possible to make one of the most important elements of the security of a country, which is an element of deterrence, not collapses by bringing the number of soldiers down to an impossible low limit. Disabling 50% is the assumption of effective defence of every country. One who estimates that he cannot strike at anyone who counts so many soldiers or has such an armed force does not engage in such a variant. I thank you for your understanding, Mr. President. I call upon anyone who wants to discuss this subject, to do so in a qualified manner and in a place of reference, and when appropriate conditions are obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9150	The People's MP Gordana Pop - Lazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9151	Mr. Minister, I thank you for confirming to me that you believe that you are right that this lease from the issue of business space municipalities must be taxed, but I don't know how you tax it four years ago, how it affects our budgets, how it affects your budget, and how it's possible that we today have to pay 98 million dinars, and that this makes it impossible for the normal functioning of municipalities, in order for you to fill the budget. So, you remembered late, or some of you didn't think of it before, didn't control it regularly. If you have a budget inspection, I guess she has to come to every municipality at least once a year. Then tax DS, don't punish us, punish someone. How is it that when you as a Republic rent some business space, it serves you as a public income, you don't pay taxes, and we as a local self-government have to pay taxes. Our accounts are exactly the same. I can't believe you made that decision. You're looking for money where there aren't any. You're looking for money in customs. You're very well in control of all financial flows, it's all in your hands. The budget inspection is in your hands, customs is in your hands. Why do you allow us to lose that kind of money from customs and keep the budget empty of the stock? You know how much customs value certain technical goods are. I'll tell you what, washing machines at 20 euros are customs, fax machines at 4 euros, computers at $6.5, monitors at $5. Is it possible that you don't know that? You know. Where are your budget inspectors? Why don't they go into customs? Who won't let it get into customs and see what's done? There's a whole series of irregularities. All data exists in the customs information system, but they are not available to you. Who forbids you to go in there and do that? Inform the Assembly that you've entered customs, you've made control, you've found that there's so much and so much money missing, and let's see who's going to answer for it. Don't break everything on those petty customs afterwards. They're only in the chain of that kidnapping, and you know what these are all tied up in various lobbys that maintain such a state of customs. It's unacceptable for this country to have an 8% full customs budget, and we know how much imports are, we know what our external trade deficit is, we know we've imported 300,000 televisions. Of course we imported it when it's this small customs. We're out of domestic production. I know you're familiar with all these customs irregularities and you, therefore, the Ministry of Finance, know that both the Ministry of Finance, and the criminal police, and the D.A.'s office, and the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, and the D.A.'s Inspector General, and so far nothing has been done. Who's stopping here? You have to give us an answer to that. We don't have anyone else to call out to why the situation is the way it is, and here I've got a bunch of newspapers in the last few months that's been dealing with this problem, and nobody's doing anything, so you're looking for money where there really are, free our pockets. It's the easiest thing for municipalities, so you're supposed to set us up with some frames at the beginning of the year, we barely get married for the expenses we have for the salaries, and then at the end of the year you take us away, and then retroactively for four years back. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9152	I thank the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. If Djelic has unlawfully freed the payment of the municipality's tax, I think it is the most honest thing to do is to book him that too nicely, finely, so he can pay. The word has a folk MP, Milica Gavrilovic, and next to prepare Meko Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I'd like to start by asking one question: what has been achieved in 2004? There was first economic recovery, there was a reduction in inflation later, industrial production increased by 6.9% compared to the same period last year. The reason for this exists primarily in the efficiency of the sectors that are privatised. Gross social product growth of 8% is expected this year and 4.5% next year, which is twice the planned growth rate. This year, the gross social product per capita has reached its highest level, i.e. $2,900 per capita. In front of us are only Croatia and Slovenia from countries in the environment. The question is, what's the target in 2005? Of course, the preservation of macroeconomic stability and the growth of economic production itself. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to continue to conduct a sound fiscal and monetary policy, and to create an environment for the investments themselves. To achieve this, it is necessary to have the very acceleration of privatisation and the restructuring of businesses and banks. That is why it has been announced that 15 tenders for large enterprises will be announced by the end of this year and 170 small and medium-sized enterprises will be privatised. In my presentation, I would concentrate only on one of the key elements on which economic policy is based, which is to accelerate the restructuring of the economy. The budget envisions a 1.5 billion reduction in subsidies compared to the previous year's budget. It's true, I know, as you all know, that this is not a popular measure, but I think this measure should have been done long before. There are two types of enterprises in restructuring. The first ones are very, we can say, bad business, but for which there is a possibility of finding a strategic partner, who could raise the level of production, which could thus restore technology and find a market for the placement of products. There are other companies that do very bad business, and unfortunately they have failed so much that every recovery they have is in vain. Since we already have a situation like this, then the question is how to find strategic partners. One of the basic conditions is the improvement of the investment investment environment itself. To achieve this, this government has already achieved its greatest success, it has provided legal certainty. We are no longer concerned about whether some investor will come into this country and invest. Now they are doing it precisely because of this government's efforts, which has also reached the basis for investment in our country. There are several methods to improve in general or create an investment climate in the restructuring process. One of the basic methods is perhaps the introduction of extra customs protection measures. What does that mean? This means protecting domestic production from foreign production, i.e. in some way protecting domestic companies from competition. It would simply provide companies with restructuring to survive until the moment they find a strategic partner. Among other things, it was an unpopular measure or a Regulation prohibiting imports of cars older than three years. Its main goal was to reduce the external trade deficit, but it achieved another goal. Namely, it protects domestic auto-industry, specifically citing the flag, FAP and gives them the opportunity to simply go to the domestic market under more favourable conditions, because they are more competitive. Another method to improve the investment climate in the restructuring process is the write-off of debts. Our companies in the restructuring process have huge debts, but these debts are primarily to domestic banks that went bankrupt and to domestic businesses. Simply, I think it is necessary for the state to reach an agreement on the write-off of these debts to domestic banks and businesses, so that our restructure companies become much more competitive, or even more attractive, for restructuring and later for privatisation. The third model - how to improve the climate for investment investments in the restructuring process, is among other things insisting on the method of a conditional tender. This principle was first applied to the successful privatisation of Livnica from Kikinda. This method provides a great opportunity and extends the space for direct negotiations between customers and creditors themselves, with the participation of the Restructure Agency. So they're actually coming up with the possibility of making a deal a lot faster than the situation we're in right now. Simply, restructuring and privatisation of businesses will contribute to larger direct and foreign investments, resulting in a reduction in the external trade deficit and an increase in exports themselves. Finally, I would only mention that the budget deficit for 2004 is 2.5% of gross social product, much less than the criteria set by the European Union for its members. I'll mention he's 3%. The 2005 budget also envisions an even greater reduction in the budget deficit by around 14 billion dinars. It is precisely because of all these positive features of this budget that I call on all Members of Parliament to support this draft budget. I call upon these MPs who are not here, MPs of the Democratic Party, who, unfortunately in the previous period and now supported something else, to finally come on track this time and support this good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9154	Thank you. Here is the word of MP Meho Omerovic, and let the MP Jovan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9155	Comrade Angelkovic, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, every debate on the draft budget law is also an opportunity for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make some kind of account before this high house, i.e. that the citizens of Serbia who elected us to the Serbian Parliament inform on how to raise funds from these citizens first and more importantly, certainly much more interesting for the citizens, as these funds are spent on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What I am looking at today, and I suppose you too, was the opportunity to see in most newspapers, and I look at only one daily newspaper, first I think it's a translation from some German or Austrian newspapers, says - the government spends millions of euros on limos, "bmw", "aud", "mercedes", "folksvagen", or - the government ordered over 100 cars of high cubics and so many other medium-class vehicles, a total of 218, in some amount that is just over three million euros. Before I start talking about the budget, I would use my parliamentary right from the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 193 and 195, and I would like to ask Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, whether what today's newspapers are writing is true or not. Is this a lie? Is this true? Is this again, as the chairman of Predrag Markovic's Assembly has just said, destroying the reputation of an important institution, in this case the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I would like to ask that, before we continue to discuss the draft budget and what SDP is thinking about that budget, which positions we would like to place, to hear, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the response of the present Minister, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9156	Mr. Omerovic, I will not include this time. So we'll start over. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9157	Thank you. Here, I have to say, like you, I saw this first time in the paper. So the finance minister sets budgets for all budget users. Is this tender in progress, how much it costs - I'm going to ask at the government today. I'll ask to go to the government at 1:00, and my deputy will be here for me for an hour. So I just don't know. All I know is that we cut all our budgets by rebalance, and you voted on it, and that no funding from the finance ministry gave. I expect and will ask the government's information service today to provide adequate information to the public because, of course, the public deserves to receive it. I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9158	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9159	I thank Mr. Minister, and so we will have the opportunity, so, during today, to get the exact answer. Especially since we were all witnesses, we here present MPs from the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, in previous days, in which language and how we were addressed by these same or individual media and even by ordinary citizens. And I'm going to quote to you something that's living truth, that's that the Serbian Parliament, they explained to us here, it says in the paper, "there is no fleet and drivers, but for the purposes of transporting its officials, so the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are also addressing the Republic Authority's joint procurement administration." I would now return to the topic, which is the draft budget law for 2005. The Social Democratic Party had several key issues. In the previous day, my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic spoke on several occasions about objections concerning the position intended for the Coordination Centre and the Co-ordination Body for South Serbia. I will not look back on these questions, because I suppose through the amendments there will also be opportunities for both MPs and resolution minister to get even deeper into this very important topic. What we are particularly interested in in the SDP, what we are particularly interested in, because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the workers, I remind us primarily because of the workers, because because of the names and last names of our party and because of our socio-economic programme we pay special attention to a problem that has been common in the last ten or fifteen years. The problem is called connecting internships in the previous period for workers who were not paid during the period they worked for, and where, not by their own fault, they remained without these funds paid into funds for it. For us in the SDP, it is therefore unacceptable that this draft budget does not contain that item. So it is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not thinking, at least through the positions set out in this proposal for the 2005 budget, whether or not we are going to solve this really acute problem. I suppose the answer here to the present minister will be that there are no legal assumptions that this position, that is, the obligation of the state to this budget, will be found. It is in this fact that not only lies the responsibility of the finance minister, but I would say the entire republican government, because it did not open up the possibility of creating conditions to start the process of solving such a big problem through legislation, legislative and sublaw. We in the SDP think it is necessary to open the emergency space to plan the funds for this purpose. What is what we think can be done very quickly, very simple and very simple. An analysis of the number of workers is needed. In public, it often speculates with numbers ranging from 150 to 180 000. So we still don't know what number of workers has this problem. Next, we don't know what companies they are. There are some companies, ladies and gentlemen MPs, whose directors and directors are today, and they haven't paid a penny to their own workers in the past seven or eight years for this kind of internship. Then, do these companies exist? I'll remind you that many of these companies have been subject to bankruptcy. Some of them are gone. Some are privatized. Do we even have a list at the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Employment, which is the number of these enterprises from which we need to get this information about workers who have this kind of problem? So, after that kind of analysis, it is necessary to establish rules and obligations -- which companies in the state of Serbia can do that obligation, that they do it immediately, that they do it immediately, because there is no more work for this country than to settle the obligations of this country, i.e. businesses, towards people who have worked, have safely done their job, have worked eight hours, good or bad -- but I won't go into it. But it's the right of an employer, of a manager, of a manager to pay them funds for their internship. I am now giving a concrete idea to both the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- for those companies that have ceased to exist, Serbia should begin to take this commitment. I hear there's some data, the minister can deny me, and maybe it's a bigger number, but it's been mentioned 200m euros to start the process of solving this big problem. We've heard that 300 million dollars in the state stands out to pay for Dafini's savings and the Jedi's savings. Dear friends of mine, the People's MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, workers who have worked for years, not by their own fault, have lost their paid internship. They didn't have bread to eat. They didn't have any money to invest in Yedina and Dafina's bank. This country has solved the problem of returning to the Jedi and Dafini's savings. If we could do that, I think it's the most logical and, I would say, the most honest of us and this government, which is democratic, and that's what the Serbian citizens are asking her to do -- to start the process, even if we show good faith in 2005, we'll take care of these people, and we'll just start to reconcile that obligation to them, because I think they've earned it at least. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9160	I thank MP Meh Omerovic. The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, and let the MP Milovan Radovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have already heard, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the 2005 draft budget law. In a few sentences, given the limited time, I would say what leads me to vote in favour of this draft budget. This is my fifth budget, as you know, which I am seriously considering in this National Assembly. I think this text that we've got today, which is what we're talking about today, is the best and I don't have any dilemmas -- 416 billion dinars of expenditure, 396 billion revenues, with 20.5 billion dinars of deficit. From the point of view of the principles on which the SPS is based or criticised or praised by the budget, this government is coming to what we actually want. We've had a permanent budget deficit in the last four years. This time, compared to 2003, we have halved, and more than that, budget deficit. It is a good trend, which some may accidentally and some do not deliberately see. And some other indicators say that this government is on the right track and, if anything, at least not to spoil some of the things that have been achieved. As I come from the economy, I know that for a businessman, perhaps even the most important thing is that the government does not spoil the economic environment in which economic operators are involved and that economic activity should grow. Yes, the fact is, business activity increased in 2004. Is it all 8%, I'm not sure, and especially given the basics that were very low in 2003. The projected GDP growth of 4.5% in 2005, of 5% in 2006 and 5.5% in 2007 is an optimistic approach to the implementation of the budget law and implementation of the economic policy measures contained in the Memorandum. I must say that it simply implodes me with this optimism that Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, brings into this whole story, and especially in that part that concerns the real possibility of making more income than was projected by the 2005 budget. It's not about small funds. It's about a dozen, maybe 15 billion dinars of increased revenues based on, hopefully, successful privatisation in 2005, a larger number of small enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and a number of large firms in Serbia, and there are 40 present in this programme, with more than 30,000 employees. There is also one suspicion that we can cover this optimism with five billion dinars of economic subsidies, which are just intended to restructure, financial and economic consolidation of these large enterprises that are to be privatised in 2005. A year, and it is understood that most of that income is based on privatisation and we achieve in 2005. There's one piece of information that promotes our attention, which is the fact that the number of employees in 2004, at the end of September 30, has increased by 26,000. Someone might think - so what, 26,000 versus 950,000 unemployed and does not represent some significant and serious figure. But for me, as a man who comes from the economy, it's very important that we seem to have come to that stage to stop the growth of the number of unemployed and to gradually enter a counter-phase, with a contradiction that begins to increase the number of employees. If that's true, although the methodology in calculating or determining the number of unemployed has changed, I think this optimism that the minister was talking about also has coverage. What else could be a problem for me? We're a bit of a country of absurdity. We have a terrible foreign trade deficit, and even in 2005, it's about five billion dollars, and we have stable foreign exchange reserves, with a growth trend. At this point, 3,850,000 foreign exchange reserves are said to continue to grow. What is the source for foreign reserves - increased foreign savings of citizens, possibly foreign loans that we have received or received in this time and third, which is an absurd for the country of Serbia, which is that citizens, by chance, are forced to sell their foreign savings in order to put an end to it, to do so through business and commercial banks and, as a consequence, to have an absurd growth in foreign reserves, without having enough organised activity to increase exports from this country. Here I am warning of the fact that only one billion dinars are planned in the 2005 budget, underlining one billion dinars that corresponds to the equivalent of approximately 13m euros to encourage exports. It's a symbolic number. It only represents the government's good intentions, but it does not, in my opinion, represent a sufficiently realistic economic factor that will really boost exports. Foreign direct investment in our economy can only increase exports to the extent that the coverage of imports would be 70% or 80%, unlike the current around 30% or 36%. I also see the following data - 13 billion 800 million dinars are planned for the activities of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. Those 13 billion 800 million were allocated under special law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I warn that the current provisions of the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax, and this time in value added tax, as well as criteria in that law, are unsettled, that you have many absurd situations. I come from Loznica and I know the following information, which could never have been recorded that way. There are 17,000 unemployed in Loznica, which is seven thousand more than he is employed. This has not been since the raven blacked out, and in this law we do not have that number of employees and the number of unemployed, taking into account that many environments with their employees receive only about 7,000 dinars and that not all of us live in Belgrade, where the average profit is approximately 20,000 dinars. This Loznica has, say, "Viscosis", an export-oriented factory that once exported $100 million a year, and today has a world market and the possibility to produce fiber and other products. I hope this government understands such factories as Viskoza. She had so far, but precisely because of her export orientation, I think that in 2005, we have to make one cut that would allow Viskoza to be restructured, privatized, and thus contribute to export growth and the reduction of the external trade deficit. It is understood that the budget can be talked about in different ways, we can tear the hair into two and three parts, but if these basic parameters are realized, and the evidence is the budget rebalancing that was definitely realised to the extent that it was planned, I believe that this budget in 2005 can also be the same as it was designed, with this note of optimism that the minister has in the work relating to privatisation, and I would add that this part of the surplus income, which we eventually make, we have to invest where the most is missing, and that is to say in the fund for paying off agricultural pensions, to help pensioners and subsidies in the economy in terms of preparation for privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9162	Minister Mladjan Dinkic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9163	Just one brief piece of information for Ambassador Todorovic and regarding Viskoza. We, as you know, plan to launch the privatisation process in 30 out of the 60 companies in the restructuring process next year. One of them is Viskoza. There is a really serious chance that this company is finally resolving its status. This year, Viskoza has increased its exports to $20 million, and I think the next year's capacity is 60 million. That's what I was told on a visit I had two weeks ago to Loznica and Viskoza. One information, today the government will adopt, among other things, a social programme for one part of Viskoza, a Svila company, 20 million dinars at the request of the union itself and the management of the factory. It's going to be adopted today, and next week it's going to be paid. The same goes for "Meader" from Gornji Milanovac. They asked for 30 million, it will be adopted today, and paid next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9164	We thank Minister Dinkic for such wonderful information. The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a draft budget bill for 2005 to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We know that the budget is one of the most important acts adopted by this legislative body. The budget otherwise falls and the governments of the state remain. Is the current budget proposal of 396 billion and 99 million dinars realistic and feasible? Are the individuals, entrepreneurs, or companies in economic capacity to settle their tax obligations in line with the proposed budget for 2005? I find it hard for companies and entrepreneurs to handle it. For covering the planned budget deficit, which is projected at 20 billion and 493 million dinars, part of the privatisation funds is counted on. Do you mean privatising how it was implemented in some cases earlier, let's say by selling three sugars for three euros to Miodrag Kostic – Koleta from the Democratic Party or how three cements "Beocin", "Kosjerić" and "New Popovac", tobacco factories in Nis and Vranja, as well as certain factories whose cases are known to me, say in Alexinac. Selling "Sartida" is a special story. It was sold for only 23 million dollars and the value of Sartide, with four or five factories, was estimated at over $400 million. It's a special story. In all these abuses, I can tell crime freely, people from the previous DOS regime participated, but there are also those who are in power now. By the way, Mr. Minister, you're probably not to blame for this, and I don't think that's, that's your service, you've been robbed of a mistake on the first page. It writes – the net domestic funding referred to in Article 1 and needs to be settled under Article 2(3) of the Law proposal. Speaking of domestic funding, we believe that the charters of the value of the issue on behalf of the Republic of Serbia are purchased by the National Bank of Serbia, especially by you, I don't mean personally, but from the individuals of the selected bank and I wouldn't be surprised that these are the HVB Bank, Raiffeisen Bank and others, with 22% interest, how much you pay at an annual level at the expense of the state, which is enormously large interest. What's the matter, you know best. We have long criticised the loans taken in the past time period of Joseph Broz Tito, which we won't be able to repay for much longer, and you are planning already borrowing from foreign creditors for already signed loans of 25,554,610,000 dinars, which leads us all to debt slavery, in which we are already in place. On 31 August of the current year, we owe 720,454.931.4 dinars. A planned loan-based debt from the Republic of Poland to rebuild Serbia's 3,061.610,000 dinars. Here, on the one hand, we have, for many years, an EFT-Interface energy lobby, through people in the EPS and NIS, in the Serbian government, who are cheaply buying domestic electricity, and are expensively selling imported electricity to us, which energizes the electricity system and the state, and on the other hand we take probably unfavourable loans, perhaps favourable, but credits are obligations for the state and all citizens of Serbia, and in this case from Poland to restore Serbia's electro-privature. You plan to be in charge of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of six loans of 18.172.083, 750 dinars in the European banks system. Why didn't you cover it during a time period when you could do it as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, that you couldn't invest foreign reserves in EuroAxis Bank in Moscow, through which you privatised the National Savings Bank. On the one hand, you are referring to the standards of international institutions and organisations, and on the other hand you do not respect these standards, their instruction and warning. Section 2 – President of the Republic, a function which means the highest executive power in the Republic, followed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, provides for funds in the budget for Boris Tadic, or the President of the Republic, amounting to 184,654,000 dinars, or six times more than for 2004, and is only intended for the cost, services under the contract of 33,800,000 dinars, of the entire budget for the President of the Republic in the current year. On the other hand, during the election campaign, he promised new jobs, higher salaries, regular pensions, etc. Furthermore, gentlemen from the government, the budget planned for 2005 is not only not savings, nor developmental, nor social, but wasteful, non-domestic. The reasons are that you plan countless fees in nature, various indefinite fees, other fees, particularly specialised services and what is already mentioned - 218 cars for three and a half million euros, etc. I'll finish with this, since time is running out. A special story is donations to NGOs, imagine, amounting to 1,904,586,000 dinars. It is taxpayers' money for those who continue to participate in breaking the country, the military, the police and the institutions of the system. They're getting money from the American state and George Soros, and now we see it from you. You're helping them self-destruct. Isn't this country, harassed, robbed and saddened by Serbia enough damage from, say, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, Borka Pavicevic, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Dejan Anastasijević, Jovan Dulovic, etc. In the end, I would mention the division of 65 -- the Ministry of Defence -- is projected to be 46,576,016,000 dinars. I hope that these are enough resources to stabilise the military and professionalise, and that they should not be allowed to break both the military and the state and the institution of the system. It is obvious that the death of Guard soldiers, among other things, is also being used to institutionally break our military and state, which includes, unfortunately, individuals from the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9166	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9167	Sir, I'm just kindly asking you to read the budget in detail when you explain your ideas. More than once, the story of grants to NGOs has been repeated. These are: The Fire Alliance, the Red Cross, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities, the Alliance of Blinds, etc. I know you couldn't get an explanation from the previous minister, but on three sides, we've given an explanation that these are all NGOs. It's not who you thought it was. Indeed, I'm prone to objective criticism, but if we've made an effort to explain on three sides, so it doesn't repeat itself from session to session, when it comes to budget, what are NGOs in terms of the Budgetary System Act, just kindly ask you to read.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9168	I thank Minister Dinkic. I think it is very important that for the first time there is a specification of what NGOs are on the list, because most in parliament here are allergic to some NGOs that were previously on the payroll of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is why it is important to know this for the public and also for the MPs. The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9169	Dear MPs, the Honorable Chairman, of course, fully share my colleagues' opinion that the draft budget is one of the most important acts that regulates both the life and functioning of the state and the position of every citizen in one country. Of course, that applies to Serbia as well. G17 Plus will vote in favour of the draft budget, not only because it is one of the most responsible acts brought by the Assembly every year, not only because it is a proposal from this government, not only because it is a proposal that came in writing from Mr Mladjan Dinkic's finance minister, but because it is a complexly good proposal, and from several aspects. In front of us, one, first of all, is the responsible draft budget, and this is because Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic is obviously leading a valuable team, which, in co-operation with all other ministries of the government, for the first time in November of this year, made a draft budget for next year. Those who monitor legislative activities, the activities of the Serbian Parliament in the previous period, know that this was also the obligation of the previous government, which the previous government had never achieved. We have a budget proposal now completely on time. The proposal for this budget, which is one month and a half before the new year 2005, will allow all budgetary users, and above all local self-government, to make their local budgets in time, timely, quality and according to their estimates and the needs of citizens living in those municipalities. So we have one responsible proposal and in time, from a valuable and professional team. We also believe that the proposal is responsible, as this budget assumes the obligation to regulate public debt in one significant amount compared to all previous years, both external and internal. Therefore, it is not worse to remind ourselves that pensioners will receive 12 and a half pensions in regular payments. In addition to regular payments - twelve months of war, there will be one half of the pension paid from the so-called so-called so-called pension. A big debt. If an agreement with the IMF is implemented, public debt will fall below 50% of the gross social product. Those dealing with macroeconomic policy know how significant this data is for a country, for its economic stability, which will avoid so-called. The state bankruptcy, which, to remind you, threatened Serbia in 2000. The draft budget is one responsible concept, because the concept of budget filling was made so that the revenue side was projected with only 14% increase, i.e. projected inflation plus GDP growth of 4.5% for 2005. With the introduction of VAT into our tax system, due to the expansion of the tax base, it is realistic to expect a major inflow in the 2005 budget, which is not fully responsible for the proposed revenue side, because it is difficult to assess the amount and reality of this type of inflow, but this very certain inflow will allow the proposed budget to be even more stable in 2005. G17 plus will vote for this draft budget, because we have a brave concept ahead of us. Serbia needs, apart from the responsible authorities, that there are also brave people in the government, with brave ministers who are ready to draw bold moves, because it is the only way we can ensure the sustainable development of society and state and speed up the accession processes of the European Union. Also, this budget envisions reducing public spending, in principle, one unpopular move. By introducing general discipline and savings in this sector, we can only ensure the progress of society. This is inevitable, because it is the only way to provide funding for development programmes, which reduces the burden on citizens and businesses, i.e. that some taxes are reduced or abolished. A reduction in the absolute amount of subsidies to social enterprises, as the minister here has made clear, but exclusively as a stimulating measure to encourage privatisation. This will ultimately reflect the fact that companies that have real privatisation problems, not because of their irresponsible management relationship, or management, will have a realistic increase in this part relating to subsidies, i.e. more than they received last year. The G17 plus will vote for this draft budget, because we have a realistic and development budget. Agriculture is not reduced under the budget, a cadastrian income tax will be abolished. What we promised last year, that's what happens. All those funds that came on the basis of subsidies, regressions, loans will not enter the tax base for taxing the income of agricultural producers. So, the story is that the registration of agricultural producers will do someone harm or burden, it absolutely doesn't stand. Subsidies, premiums and regressions have also remained, even increased somewhere. The observed inventiveness and feeling of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance to introduce some new subsidies, for example for vegetables, which will be positively reflected and is interesting for agricultural producers in the south and southeast of Serbia. Of course, the Development Fund has remained fully, and all of them remain for employment incentives. For the first time, we'll have what's long been said and predicted to cut the 14% income tax for all new employees from the bureau who are employed in the economy. One interesting socio-protective concept - for all over 50 years, which are on the bureau, which are being re-employed in the economy, employers will also be fully exempt from the income tax, and the obligation to make contributions. In addition to the combination of the introduction of credits for the unemployed, we have, apart from developmental, one social concept in this draft budget. Just one more moment, to remind you that although the state-wide funding concept has changed, local self-government will have an increase of 30% and 30%, respectively, from 40% to 40% of the citizen income tax and plus the state's transfer. In a conversation with the finance minister, G17 plus suggested that although the finance minister has the responsibility to adopt a draft budget in time, he held a meeting with local self-government representatives and that a dialogue with the finance minister should bring the right concept of a new law on funding local self-government. And to our satisfaction, but also to the satisfaction, above all, of the local self-government, the finance minister has accepted, he will set up a meeting in the next 15 days. We have information that many, that those MPs who are not in a position, but in opposition, will personally support this budget, because they think it is really good, that it is the best, in a previous and longer period. They may not vote for this budget, but I call on them to vote, because those who do not vote obviously do not understand this concept of the budget or simply for strictly political reasons will not support what has been taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9170	I thank the MP Goran Jaksic. The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and the MP Arsen Đuric will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9171	Dear People's MPs, I don't know what the reasons were and what the president of the National Assembly was doing when he scheduled this session with the agenda to discuss the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. I also responded to the Finance Committee because we were invited to a session of the Committee by telegram. This is how extensive material and the importance of the law I feel today I should have taken this procedure and I don't know how yesterday the President of the National Assembly, Mr Markovic, explained to the MPs this appointment and the conduct of the entire procedure. Unfortunately, I also did not get an answer on the Committee as to why it was acted in an urgent way to schedule a session and to discuss this bill. I am also surprised about yesterday, why did the parliamentary majority not accept the proposal of our deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Vukic, to discuss the draft budget, or to have the time to discuss it twice as long as it is according to the Rules of Procedure? Obviously, the proposer, the Serbian government, and especially the assembly majority, does not want to be thoroughly discussed all the provisions of the budget, so that all the proposed budget provisions are considered in one normal procedure, without the reason why they will have a majority, which will be accepted. I don't have much time, thanks to the parliamentary majority who didn't want to vote to extend the time for the debate, but I would just like to ask a few questions from the draft budget itself, many have been launched and discussed, I have asked the finance minister. So, for a programme to restructure large enterprises in Serbia, does this programme even exist? Here the minister said yesterday that it was about 60 companies, and is it 50 or 63 or 67, were these companies followed by the government's programme? The government seems to be misleading the workers of these companies, that there is essentially no programme and that it is simply the programme for the destruction of these companies, and we have heard today in response to the minister that some of the companies mentioned are solutions, i.e. they will be in the next period. So there's no program for the King, which someone calls a devastated area, and I don't know what that means, I haven't heard what it means by now in Serbian. Magnochromic cramps on his knees. I must say again, by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry of Economy, because it is the most responsible for such a situation and the collapse of the Magnochroma. The car factory, not to mention her. He knew in a pre-election campaign for local elections, Minister of Capital Investment Velja Ilic would go to the Car Factory and promise many jobs, but it was only in the pre-election campaign. I also speak again, and I have to point out again, the Department of Roads within the Ministry of Capital Investments, does it have any programme and priorities where the funds are invested. We also see in the 2004 budget, and even projected in the 2005 budget, huge debts through the Directorate abroad. Where these funds are invested, which the roads are repaired, where they will be built. And the Kings, apparently, aren't in the Directorate's program, they won't have another bridge on Ibra again without talking about the bypass. The issue of agriculture, milk premiums, these premiums remain as they are this year and it is incomprehensible that the so-called raw milk is 14 dinars and with a possible premium of 17 or 18 dinars. The government and finance minister have not found a better solution for dairy producers, but unfortunately, the destruction of the stock fund will continue and we will be left without livestock, as well as other basic agricultural products. I will end up with this, as clear as this is, or unclearly, in this draft budget, which was on the Committee, which was confirmed by the minister, that he does not know that the funds were spent in certain ministries, and the Committee discussed a report by the Public Procurement Administration, so many of the public procurements in Serbia amounting to around 1,400,000 euros, one of the others was the arrangement of the formal hall for the declaration ceremony, i.e. after the declaration or the oath of President Boris Tadic. There's no record of how much funds have been spent and what they've been spent on. It's a reality where we find ourselves as a state and as a people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9172	The word comes from MP Arsen Djuric, and before him, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the meantime, information has been received from the Office for Joint Affairs of the Republic's Authorities on the issues of MPs and on a tender for car procurement for the needs of the republican authorities and organisations. I'd like to read that answer in the most part. Therefore, the Board of Joint Affairs of the Republic authorities opened a tender on 18 October this year for the procurement of 218 passenger vehicles for the needs of the Republic authorities and organisations. However, this public procurement of cars does not involve the purchase of cars for the official needs of the transport of ministers, but is intended for inspection services, which operate on the ground and on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So that's also the reason, I don't know, we have a lot of service inspections that just have to do their jobs on the ground. Otherwise, the current fleet of the Board of Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities is 181 vehicles, of which 160 is technically correct. Of the number, 85 vehicles are more classy, and more than 80% of the vehicles were purchased in 1994 and 1995, with more than 500,000 km of mileage traveled. These vehicles are inert for further use and very expensive for maintenance. More than a million dinars at the monthly level and are not safe enough to participate in traffic, so there is a process of disassemblying 40 vehicles. Therefore, of 218 passenger vehicles, which are the subject of public procurement, 175 vehicles or more than 80% of total purchases belong to lower and middle-class vehicles, intended for the purposes of inspection services, ministries, judicial authorities and bodies for the execution of office sanctions. So, there's those maricas, police cars for the transport of prisoners, arrested, etc. From that number of vehicles, I'll give you the structure by certain organs. Therefore, from that number of vehicles for the purposes of the Ministry of Justice is supplied to the judicial authorities of 35 vehicles, this is for the purposes of the Council for Violations, District and Municipal Courts, District and Municipal Prosecutors, which are located in the territory of the entire Republic. Then, for the enforcement of 15 vehicles, for the purposes of the Justice Department, one vehicle. As regards the means of purchase of those vehicles, all the funds in this section are provided exclusively by court fees. As regards the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, 40 inspection vehicles are provided. These are lower and medium category vehicles for agricultural, veterinary, forestry, plant protection and water production. These inspection services have a total of 847 inspectors, doing jobs throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, for the purposes of the Ministry of Science and Environment of 15 passenger vehicles, for the purpose of environmental inspection bodies carrying out tasks throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For the purposes of the Capital Investment Ministry, 31 vehicles for inspection services, traffic inspections, inspections for telecommunications and construction inspections, which also carry out jobs throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to read here the information that was delivered to me. The funds for the purchase of these vehicles are provided from their own revenues, which are achieved by the work of inspection services, therefore, are not revenues that go directly from the budget, but are their own revenues from inspection services. Then, for the purposes of the Ministry of Health, a passenger vehicle for the Department of Medicinal Products. For the purposes of the Ministry, there is a passenger vehicle. For the purposes of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, one vehicle for the Ministry itself. For the purposes of the Republic Institute, two passenger cars shall be stopped. For the need of a recycling agency, one vehicle. For the purposes of the Republic Internet Service, one vehicle and for the purposes of the Agency for Joint Affairs of Republic Authorities 31 vehicle. In the end, we would like to note, it is said in this information, that a large number of inspection services from the federal level have moved to a republican level and the necessary vehicles are being purchased to carry out those inspection services operationally on the ground. So I repeat what I said in the first answer to the question. There was no additional funding compared to budget rebalances, and these are the purposes of these vehicles. Obviously, it is vehicles for inspection services of different bodies in different cities of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I will also try additional information to collect, but this is something that I received as a report on the tender from the Board of Joint Affairs, based on questions asked by MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9174	I thank Minister Dinkic. The People's MP Vukic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a folk MP, and you like to change ambassadorial places, states, and it's your only job, and not because you can do something for our people and our country there, but only how much money you'll have and how much to save, and how much to get back, it talks more about you than about me. Let me just say, since I first started this topic this morning and asked Mr Dinkic a question. Just in the proposed 2005 budget, it's obvious that such a case exists. That's the problem, the so-called problem. own incomes, which also fall under budgets. So I said our budget is not 416.5 billion, but 473.419 billion dinars. What's this about? So you're saying -- well, that's not the specific financial resources from the budget, that's what the government earned from the inspections. So, 20.40 or any amount of money was charged for healthcare participation, so he took a doctor, spent it, went for a soda, stopped by the cafeteria a little bit, liked it that way, didn't mean anything, he didn't spend the budget, but what the health home itself earned. That's your logic. That's what's unacceptable logic. And let's see how and in what way they're just going to get inspections, because we already know that it's not just for inspections, but also for government officials, but I think this shows that we're not going to have any savings, no rational spending of budgets, that it's not particularly restrictive. And at this point where the minister wants to present the budget as restrictive, as a developmental one above all, if we understand it correctly, you will hardly be able to come to an understanding with any expert or any common man of the people you would like to tell this story. Suddenly, inspections were made for 218 vehicles. They didn't get that inspection because it's their private company, so the inspectors made a lot of money, so now they have the right to spend it, it's state money, the state has the money. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister determine how and where that money goes. It's true, he determines positions, he can't mix everyone in position. There's accounting that looks at it one way or another. But he has to know in his positions how much money management is going to spend, why the management is going to spend money. It's not a private institution, it came to someone's mind, we've earned it, so now we're gonna spend it like this. We don't care. Then let's behave like this all public enterprises, let's make all the state authorities behave that way. That's what's totally unacceptable, and I didn't come out to attack you in a demagogue way, because I'm not going to tell you for one moment, Mr. Dinkic, you're driving in an audition, in a BMW or I don't know what. It doesn't matter, you're a minister in this country and you shouldn't be driving in a drawer or in a iron, because those who tell you that are demagogues. The Minister of a serious country should drive in a decent vehicle, but when the people are starving and when we need new jobs and when we need to start production and when we talk about restrictive and thrifty politics, then we don't need new vehicles, because we don't need your auditions, they're long-term vehicles, it's a serious German made, it won't spoil so easily and you're very fast and you can easily service it. But this is something that keeps the eyes of all the MPs, the MPs of the opposition from the SRS, but I'm sure that's what's happening to all the citizens. It's not an explanation that the inspections have earned themselves, because that means then every doctor has the right to go and spend whatever he wants and whatever he thinks he wants and doesn't need to ask the Minister of Health, or the Director of the Company, at home of health, hospital or anything else. I would ask you not to underestimate the MPs or citizens of the Republic of Serbia in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9176	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9177	If you listened carefully to what I said, you could see that no single vehicle was obtained for the Ministry of Finance's needs, none was obtained during my term. The vehicle I'm driving in was purchased in the previous term of the previous government, and I have no intention of buying new vehicles, for the sake of the public, I'm just saying this. I repeat once again, the information we received from the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority says that 80% of the total number of vehicles is lower and medium category. There are also vehicles branding "South" domestic production for agricultural inspectors. If we don't want to be demagogues, then we have to say that there's no inspection to go to the field, that there's a requirement to go to some village, to see if the law is being implemented, unless there's anything to drive around. Indeed, no vehicle, it is claimed here, and you will have the opportunity to control it as MPs, will be used for the transport of ministers. You saw for yourself that 80% of the vehicles were purchased in 1994 - 1995 from the current fleet, with a mileage greater than 500,000 kilometers [500,000 km]. I'm just getting the right information. Thirty-five vehicles - "marice" for prisons, for judicial authorities. So these aren't the vehicles the government's gonna use. This is for all the cities, for the districts. Someone just said why they're giving this county a political line, this one, that one, and now the county's looking for some vehicles so they can perform their duties, travel. It's simply that nothing from the budget is asked of the Ministry of Finance, which is why we couldn't even know, or interfere in using the items, especially given that this assembly confirmed our proposal for a rebalancing, when we reduced by 30% deficit. So I really don't think there's any reason to go with demagogy. Of course, if there were some luxury, some spending that are like that, I would join you in these attacks, however, in this report, this assures me that it really is about the need to carry out the work of inspection and service first of all. Although, as I can see here, it is also predicting the purchase of official cars for the National Assembly, for the president, vice president and parliamentary groups. Indeed, probably, the service, the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority, did not voluntarily bring the tender, but on the basis of the needs collected during the year by various state authorities and I think it should be looked at how this tender will take place. Will he be transparent? Who's going to win? And that's where the public needs to get involved, but let's not go to demagogy. This is about vehicles of middle and lower category. And I didn't ask, neither did the Treasury Department get any vehicles, nor will they get them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9178	Thank you. On what grounds? No, no, you're... Mr. Vukic, you have come out and caused a replica (Employee Vukic gives an oral explanation). Okay, but please respect the Rules of Procedure. You spoke five minutes ago, not three, as far as you were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the minister is leaving the O.R., I didn't mean to tell him anything but to let him know... Does that change anything? [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9180	So, the Minister and I just made a deal as a Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9181	Mr. Angelkovic, just don't interrupt me, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9182	No, no, that's a notice, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9183	I am informing the public that I am sorry that Mr Dinkic has left and I do not want to enter into the reasons why he is doing this, must or probably has some obligations. But I've never served a demagogue before. I'm not personally envious or mean and I won't blame anyone who has more, who has better, who earns and earns. I don't want to blame any minister on what he's driving and ask him how much fuel he's spent. Because that's what demagogues do and some of you did in your previous term. This is what some of you have done in the worst way here, entering the bedroom of some people, who were political opponents to them, which is what all honorable people not only in the National Assembly, but in the whole country have condemned. Well, we never did that. But what we do -- how suddenly Mr. Dinkic gets the paper, and he didn't have it this morning, and he didn't know anything about it. If he got the paper, it's okay. Then how does he know everything's right within 15 minutes? What are those middle-class vehicles? Let's see who was driving the middle class? Is that a middle-class vehicle... Don't yell and don't whine. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] If you do, if you're nervous and you're rude, go out for the pay phone and say it. Something to scare me or hurt me by throwing you won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9184	Please, let's listen to Mr. Wolfie, without a pass, please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9185	Tell us who was driving the middle class? How many cubics? Who needs a "peg 307" or I don't know which car, and who made the decision about it? Who someone consulted to show that the number of vehicles needed. And it wasn't a personal matter, I meet Mr. Minister often in Belgrade, in his car, say hello through the window, never mind him being in an "audia", I don't have any kind of problem with that. But Serbian citizens have this kind of problem, which is not restrictive, which is not thriftful and rational behavior. Because I'm sure that money could have been much better deployed, as I'm sure the diplomatic activity of the President of the Republic could have been better off than visiting a basketball game. And he announced last night that right after the TV show, he was going to go on a fierce diplomatic activity. And, except that wherever he shows up, he's malpracticing ours, so right now they have to lose the game, it would be good if he did something serious about it. But I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to tell us who these vehicles are and how many of the 218 was carrying the "South" stamps and how many of them are produced in Kragujevac. Is it ten? Or a hundred? If it's a hundred, it's another thing. Looks to me like it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9186	Mr. Wolfie,...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9187	Please, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9188	My job is to warn you that you've been over half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9189	Okay, Mr. Angelkovic. So, I think that's the thing that interests all Serbian citizens and we're not doing it because we want a priority to attack the government or any part of the executive government or any particular ministry. We are doing this because it is an issue that interests not only the MPs, but all the citizens of Serbia. So do it, and tell me -- there'll be so many car stamps "South," so many car stamps "pejo", so many cars of this kind or those stamps, and then it'll be clearer to us and who was paying for those ads against our vehicles in certain newspapers that were run. Could someone else get in the tender. And what's the key question, what Mr Dinkic was talking about, in any case, don't get out of your mind that we're the only ones here who carry interest...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9190	Mr. Wolfie, you're over a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9191	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic, as an object of interest and the will of the citizens of Serbia, and I hope and I am sure you do not want to escape from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9192	I thank you, Mr. Vucic, just to remind all MPs that in the previous debate, Mladjan Dinkic, finance minister, has informed us that at 1300 hours he will be in the Serbian government, where he will also look for additional information about this tender and therefore I hope that both the public and the Assembly will be informed and should be informed about the vehicles. But also, of course, I think the Assembly also believes that state authorities must enforce the law, and that means that they must also be technically trained, especially when it comes to inspection, which should and has an obligation to enforce legal solutions. (Alexander Wolf, from a place - in whose name are you talking? ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Meho Omerovic and then for the replica Milojub Albianic. (Alexander Wolf, from a place - in whose name are you talking? We'll see, when he answers, Mr. Wolfie, don't throw away. Mr. Vukiæu, don't throw away, please, go ahead, please. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic. Everyone has the right to behave in the O.R. as they think they should.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9193	I thank you, Chairman. Since I asked for a reply from the minister in accordance with Article 196. I have the right to plead with the Rules of Procedure on Mr. Secretary's response. I'm sorry that Mr. Secretary came out, and he told us earlier that he was going to the government at 1:00 p.m., so after the cabinet session, he'd come with a full report and complete information. I expect, since there is also a colleague from the Ministry of Finance, that we will indeed be in this lunch break, and we will get complete information on where all the funds are for these 218 cars, or for which 218 cars are involved. I must confess that after what I heard a little while, and what Mr. Minister Mladjan Dinkic said, I see that there was a huge fear among criminals. Namely, five or six maricas have been purchased, so there is a dangerous fear among them, which of them will be arrested and placed in these maricas. That is why I would like to see it through the end of today, and certainly before we move on to the amendment to the 2005 Budget Law, we get clear and accurate information from the Ministry of Finance about the type of car and how much this particular car costs in the case of all 218. I don't think that's a problem, and that except for the oral response we got, something before the minister promised, in any case, it was commendable, so he had that information, I'm just sorry he didn't tell them at the same time that I asked him a question. But I expect that by the end of the debate we will in principle get precise and clear information about all 218 cars - whether it's cars of domestic production, whether it's a high-cube car or not, and to see clearly and precisely why the Ministry of Health has one car, why the Ministry of Economy, which works, also has only one car, and some other ministry has dozens. It is simply that we know clearly and precisely which arches were managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the people of the Resorial Administration in the distribution of funds for these vehicles, in order to gain insight into whether these funds, especially those cars, were deployed where they should be, in order to improve the process of work, both in these ministries and in business. I hope we get a written answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9194	I thank MP Meh Omerovic. The word has the head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, Miloljub Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, we must respect the Rules of Procedure when we talk about topics that are on the agenda and the dignity of the National Assembly. So, I asked the minister for those cars, too. Otherwise, I have also made a statement that the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs to save, above all, from the state administration and the administration, and that this matter is being investigated, but it is not correct to bring the finance minister about the case. So when I asked him, he said he had no information about it, that he was going to get information, and in the meantime they probably faxed the information and I don't see what the problem is. The other thing is if someone isn't satisfied with this written information and it's the right of everyone. So we should act normal, civilised, and continue in accordance with the agenda of this session, and we don't need a particular statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9196	I thank the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic. Replica, Mr. Vukic, although the MP did not mention you in any context.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9197	You're known for your tolerance, Mr. Angelkovic, and I'll be very brief. First of all, when I get off the phone, if you have something to say, come out for the pay phone, don't use the chair seat to explain what's going on in the gym. (President: I thank you. Mr. Albianic, I agree with you, but it's not a personal matter. We have today's draft budget law. There are announcements that we may be working both after hours and late at night. Let me ask you, where are the Serbian Government ministers? That's the key question. I'm not asking about just one minister. The finance minister is an authorised representative of the government. Where are the other ministers when the budget is being discussed? Where are the government representatives? To whom else should we refer a question rather than a minister representing the government at that time? Are you telling us it's some kind of personal hatred or personal whim to someone? It wasn't at all, it wasn't even pointed at ad personam. We didn't accuse anyone individually, we didn't ask, we were just looking for information. It's not about transferring Mr. Dinkic, Mr. Kostunica or anyone else, it's about questions for the entire government to tell us. It is illogically the same as it is illogical to increase the budget of the President of the Republic by 600% and to drop 50% of the budget of the National Assembly. Can you explain that to me? Is there a genius who can explain that to me? There isn't. We're thrifty, and it's a good thing we saved 50% less money. The 2004 budget envisioned a billion and 500 million, and now 750 million. All right, we saved up, there'll be more money for the people, some money for agriculture, some money for small and medium-sized enterprises, great. It seems that the money went to the President of the Republic and to its anti-constitutional and illegal offices, with 33 million going to 184 million, gentlemen of the Parliament's majority. That's almost 600 percent increase. It's a question we ask the government, the finance minister, as well as a question for these vehicles. Why are they spending that money? For the uniforms? For diplomatic activity that means - give me the Real uniform. But that's what this government decides, this congregation majority, and we're against it. As we are against spending people's money and making a parallel government in the Office of President of the Republic, so we are also against the waste of money by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is where our position has not changed and will not change. We just want the citizens to know where that money is, whose money it is and what it's going to be spent on, and nothing more. As far as we're concerned, you can continue and discuss the budget, but you haven't explained to me the Lustration Commission and where 200,000 travel costs go. Apart from the Lustration Commission, what will the 24 million spend Boris Tadic on services under contract? Vuk Draskovic has 56 million services per contract. What's he going on about? (President: Mr. Wolf, you have abused the replica. What you're saying has nothing to do with the previous discussion and it's not a replica, and I'm warning you it's three minutes and 47 seconds. ) Okay, Mr. Angelkovic, I am sorry for taking advantage of the opportunity in your presence to say more about the budgets and items and the people's money abused by Mr. Tadic and Mr. Draskovic. Excuse me one more time, I'll try not to do anything to hurt you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9198	Mr. Vukic, if you're asking for my opinion, I'm pleased with what you said about Tadic, I just warned you about the Rules of Procedure so you don't violate him, so we won't be in the same place as Mr. Tadic. Replica was reported by MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9199	I'm glad that the chairman here, and some speakers express their pleasures, will be something of us one fine day. My colleague Albianic, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, obviously I'm misread. I wasn't talking about whether you had good communication with Mr Dinkic or not. It's a good thing you're communicating with Mr Dinkic, and it's a good thing you're telling him something that I'm speaking to him in public from this pay phone. But it wasn't a topic. It's your private stuff and you do it whenever you want and wherever you want. I asked a question, and the answer with clear and accurate data should be here for us to get. Just because some paper came in by fax, so Mr. Dinkic saw it, I don't care. Serbian citizens, Serbian MPs, are interested in taxation, individually for each ministry, for every administration where these 218 cars went and how much they cost. I asked for it, first of all, for the reputation of this high house, for citizens who are interested in it. I'll remind you, we're discussing the budget, we're also discussing the money of these same citizens. One more thing, I didn't get an answer, I didn't get an answer, I didn't get an oral reply, and I hope that in writing we'll get it from the finance minister or from someone from the government -- why did this high house, why did the Serbian Parliament, which chose that government of Serbia, whose MPs in the past ten days, called all kinds of ugly names, have no new cars? Why does the Serbian Parliament have the youngest car that could almost go to school, seven, eight or nine years? Why does the resolution ministries, why doesn't the Serbian government also take care of the cars for MPs, for the Serbian parliament, so for this home that chose it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9200	I thank MP Meh Omerovic. I hope that all MPs, both positions and opposition, agree with the fact that this afternoon we get complete information on this issue from Minister Dinkic of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and bring this topic to an end and move on in order. The People's MP Arsen Đuric has the word, and let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 and I would like to stress that the DSS will support this bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a Memorandum of Budget and Economic Policy for 2005, with projections for 2006 and 2007. The main economic policy objectives, based on the 2005 budget, are to preserve macroeconomic stability, with a high rate of economic growth being maintained and GDP growth of 4.5% is planned. In 2004, the growth of the social gross product is 8%, which is twice the planned growth rate, and it is also the highest growth rate in Serbia in the last 25 years. A restrictive monetary policy will continue, which will lead to further increase in foreign reserves and preserve the stability of dinars, with the continued reform of the public finances system by discharging the economy and increasing its competitiveness. Serious restructuring of public enterprises is also planned to increase their profitability, but on the basis of cost reductions, not based on price increases, so that they will have more efficient work and better quality services. In 2005, an accelerated privatisation of companies in social property and privatisation of banks with majority state ownership is planned. Restructure and privatisation will lead to an increase in foreign investment and an increase in the competitiveness of the domestic economy, which is an important condition for increasing exports and reducing the external trade deficit to one real and sustainable measure. Fiscal policy in 2005 will focus on ensuring stable revenues, reducing public spending and reducing the total public debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9202	Excuse me, Mr. Djuric, I'd like to ask some MPs to use their musical wishes from cell phones outside the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9203	So fiscal policy in 2005 will be focused on establishing stable revenues, reducing public spending and reducing the total public debt to below 50% of GDP. Budget revenues for 2005 are planned for 20% more than in 2004 and are planned for around 396 billion. The expenditures have been increased by 15% and are planned at around 416 billion and it is clear that the budget deficit is significantly lower, or more than 37% lower than in 2004 and is planned at around 20 billion dinars. The funds to cover the budget deficit will be secured from privatisation revenues, from donations and loans from international financial institutions. As shown in the budget, in the fourth quarter of 2005, part of the privatisation funding was planned to be in the amount of seven billion dinars and to be set to pay off one half of the pension, so that in 2005, a payment of 12.5 pensions is planned. The value added tax revenues are expected to be 14% higher than the turnover tax revenue, which has been abolished since 1 January, and since the participation in the sales tax was a significant source of funding for local self-government units, and that it has been abolished since 1 January and the value added tax is introduced, the budget has planned a transfer amount of 13 billion and 800 million, which will be transferred to local self-government units under special law. In addition, an increase in the participation in salary tax from 30% to 40% so far in favour of local self-government units is planned, so that with transfer funds it will represent greater revenues of municipalities from the Republic budget than so far. Although this is one restrictive anti-inflation budget, its investment and development component should be highlighted. The biggest increase is certainly in the Republic Roads Directorate and is over 50%. The budget of the Republic Road Directorate is planned at around 27 billion dinars. The total Agrarian budget is planned for around 20 billion and is approximately at the level of the 2004 budget. Also, five billion were planned for economic subsidies under the Ministry of Economy, a billion dinars for export incentives under the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad, a billion dinars for the Guarantee Fund, and for the Development Fund 800 million were planned, and for micro loans of 600 million with three years of repayment and a grace period of one year, with an annual interest rate of just 1%. It should be noted that the funds for the Transition Fund are two and a half times higher than in 2004. They're planned for five billion dinars. What I want to express my special satisfaction with, since I come from the tourism economy, is that the means to stimulate tourism development are four times larger than in 2004 and are planned to amount to 280 million dinars. For all this I repeat that the DSS will support this bill and I urge all MPs to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9204	The People's Messenger Milan Nikolic has the word, and for the word to be prepared, the Messenger of the People, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9205	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we are discussing the 2005 budget and I think it is one of the most important documents this assembly should adopt. The macroeconomic policy set out in this budget defines all activities during 2005, or the country's life. I think it's a good idea to talk deeply about everything before we define ourselves to adopt a budget like this. I think the objectives of macroeconomic policy, which are set, which is to increase economic growth and macroeconomic stability, are very important two basic objectives, which should not only be realised in the coming years but also in many years. Also, five measures, which is a restrictive monetary policy, sound budgetary constraints, controlled public sector salary policy, restructuring of the economy and creating an environment for export growth, as well as reorganisation of public enterprises, are a good basis for creating a more stable climate, which can make the economy attractive, so that we can also be strategic partners with new potential investors or those who want to invest in this country. I also think that the realistic growth of the social gross product of 4.5% is planned and that the inflation of 9% can be a good parameter for a good economic position and for the realization of such a single budget. However, although the restrictive component is stressed in many budget positions, without the intention of entering into details, so that the figures are criticised in one way or another, we have the elements to say that they are not. The story here has been mentioned several times that the pay outage in the state sector, in fact at all levels, from the municipality beyond all levels of government and in many public functions, is too large and that the data is unsatisfactory, which shows that in the last few years, red tape is increasing, which threatens to reach a huge part of the budget. I don't think that these are high wages, but I think that the number of participants in the distribution of such funds is high and, if the budget is restrictive, if we want to be efficient, then it's very important to measure the number of employees in public functions strictly and to share the fate of those in the economy, because now we have one contradictory situation, that we have a large number of employees from manufacturing companies as a technological surplus on the street, and we employ people in non-productive activities. Also, I think that economic policy measures must protect the domestic producer in and out of such a small commercial space, the market space. And at this point, everything and everything is being imported in this country in this country, and the measures taken to at least partially stop such exports do not produce results. I think they were seriously hit by shoe manufacturers, behind that by textile producers. We now have a situation that very prominent companies have failed precisely because of the lack of proper policy to protect domestic production. Now they're hitting all the wide-use goods production. I understand that, if we want to go to Europe, if we want to have the conditions and ambience that European countries have, we cannot count on protection policy through high customs duties, but the extra-tariff protection measures, reduced to inspection and quality control alone, are not sufficient. It is necessary to look at the experience of countries in the environment, to look at the raw material composition of the products that we import, to perform more detail on these products. Why not avoid these negative experiences and introduce protection measures through quotas, special import licences for certain products, above all I mean wide-use goods and that the idea that the Ministry of Trade has launched – "let's buy domestic" – is affirmed correctly and everywhere. I think that way we could hire more workers, employ more of the capacities we have, which are sitting out of work, and thus make more of a contribution to budgeting than is the situation right now. Very often it is said that we do not have the quality of export. I don't think that claim is true. I think this time too, there's a synchronised strategy and policy missing to make larger exports happen. There's almost no chamber activity on that plan. We hardly see that at embassies, we have business representations that can contribute to various known activities, that our products, after the embargo, are found where they used to be and where they belong. Also, I think it's symbolic of this promotion of exports, as it was called in the balance sheet. The possibilities are such, but in conditions where our producer has a situation to meet with competition in the world, which for the purpose of financing production has 4% interest, and we know that here we are above 1.5% at the monthly rate of interest, then it would be necessary to take measures of more favourable lending to export production, in order to be more competitive in these markets, because these interest rates our advantage in the cheap workforce eats and then become uncompetitive in these markets and with better goods. In the end, we, as a SPS, will accept the budget, because in principle, global politics is good. I have little objection to this budget transfer in different forms to encourage development, and above all, I think it is not politically wise to link the singles for southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. I think those two things should be separated. That way they'll probably be better able to track what's done in one, what in the other region. These two regions have the same problems, but they're not exactly the same. I think that's the plan we need to think about before we finally make a decision. We'll see about budget implementation. It's a good thing he's real. In these economic conditions, I think it can't be different. I hope that next year we will be able to talk about such a budget that will have elements for development bigger than there are now, which will have an investment policy stronger than it is now, if we realize what we are now negotiating with this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9206	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9207	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft budget law also provides for certain types of income to ensure normal functioning of public spending. There are three types of revenue sources that total the budget. Under the law, tax and non-tax revenues totalling 396 billion dinars, a 20.5 billion dinar deficit and additional revenues from bodies of 56.8 billion dinars are foreseen. Counted into dollars, that's about $7.9 billion somewhere. In light of this law, it is said that this budget is 45.5% of gross national income. That would make the gross social product $17.5 billion. It's a bit strange that amount and a way of calculating gross social product, because we know that until four years ago, the gross social product was only $11 billion. It's just impossible that by four years it's increased by $6.5 billion. I'd look back on how to cover the budget deficit, which is 20.5 billion dinars or $341 million. The law stipulates that the budget deficit will be covered in three ways, from a privatisation of 8 billion dinars, from donations and loans from international and financial institutions 5,700,000 and net domestic financing. The net domestic financing includes the privatisation benefits achieved in 2004, issue of securities of value and loans from business banks. It's a little suspicious how this deficit will be covered. It will most likely be covered by the borrowing of business banks and in general by increasing the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. As for covering the deficits of the privatisations already achieved, one of my predecessors mentioned a way of privatizing the Sartide. That's where one big damage was done to the Sartida creditors. A bankruptcy procedure was launched against "Sartida" AD in 2003. The property estimated by the parent and 5 dependent companies was estimated at over $450m, and in the bankruptcy process, instead of public competition, Sartid was sold by a free contract, free of charge between the bankruptcy manager and the buyer "Sartid" AD and 5 subsidiaries. The bankruptcy manager was Branislav Ignjatovic, otherwise the godfather of No Kolesar, and the whole case was conducted by the Trade Court in Belgrade. It is interesting that a local court for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings should have been the Trade Court in Pogorevec. However, the Trade Court in Pozarevec has been excluded and for some unknown reasons a Trade Court has been designated in Belgrade. There is a damaged state of Serbia, trustees and workers and Sartida, and these five dependent companies. The state of Serbia because it was the majority owner and shareholder. Social property was 52%, and about 48% were shareholders, with the majority shareholder being the state of Serbia. The evaluation of the value of capital and Sartida AD and five subsidiaries was conducted by the auditory house "Deloitte and Touche", whose executive director was former Economy and Privatisation Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic by the end of 2000, and he performed one assessment of capital while he was executive director of "Deloitte and Touche", and at a second price was sold while he was Minister for Business and Privatisation. Sartid's estimate is AD and five independent companies over 450 million, and the government of Serbia and the Ministry of Business and Privatisation allowed Sartid and all five dependent companies to be sold for $23.6m. This resulted in US Steel from Pittsburgh earning over $430m, which was published in the list "Wal Street", a January 2004 edition, and our home press reported it. However, no one has done anything about it. Trustees have been damaged, workers have not been paid contributions for both 2001, 2002 and 2003, and a great deal of damage has been done, so they should be careful to assess whether they can overcome the budget deficit through privatisation. If there's a privatisation like Sartide, it's gonna be hard to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9208	The People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan has the word, and the People's Messenger Mika Vlaović is prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9209	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few sentences on one part of the budget, and it is the means for the work of the National Minority Council that the Minister once mentioned this in a sentence, and I would like to remind you of some facts. In fact, when the budget for this year was adopted, I submitted an amendment to provide funds for the work of the National Minority Council. But it was not possible at the time, so later this year, however, thanks to the finance minister, funds were provided for the work of the national councils, so that this year they are foreseen as a special item, and 45 million for the work of the councils of national minorities. To remind you, this body was introduced in the adoption of laws on the protection of the rights of national minorities, and this was brought by the Federal Assembly, and later this body was established by the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which is practically an integral part of the Constitution of the State Community. Thanks to these acts, the councils of minority communities function, by providing funds in the budget. In fact, there are 11 national councils, to date, that some of the councils of minority communities could not work at all, unless at least these minimum funds were provided in the budget, and that is very important for the work of these councils. As far as I'm aware, in addition to these advices that have been established so far, which is 11 tips, these days, or already, the 12th Council of National Minorities has been established. I would like this opportunity to thank you for finally getting this item into the budget. I suggest you all vote for next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9210	The People's MP Mika Vlaovic has the word, and let the MP Bojan Kekic prepare for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9211	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this pay phone has spoken of many items in the budget, there is little mention of agriculture. Since I am one of the few farmers in the Serbian Parliament in front of the DSS -- Vojislav Kostunica, I will stick to the part of the agriculture budget. I know it's not enough what agriculture needs. Long-term heritage, I don't want to talk about it now, has led to great chaos in agriculture. In the 2003 campaign, we had a slogan -- the word is, we didn't make sweet promises, but we keep promises. The agricultural budget has been increased three times since 2003. Since it's about items, I'll read something. The total amount is 20 billion, of which 10 billion and 982 million, and will be used for the following purposes: milk premiums, which are at least 3.2% milk fat, premiums for industrial plants, for the production of sunflowers, soybeans, oil pumpkins and tobacco. For sunflower, one kilo - a dinar and a half premium. Two dinars for soybeans, 35 to 65 dinars per kilogram, depending on the variety. The sugar beet premium was lifted this year and that's good. Some more will surely be abolished next year. It was meant somewhere in the old days when the factories were social. The agricultural processing factories are privatised and it is good that the premium has been abolished, will be used in the budget for some other purposes, it would not be normal to break through on one side of the taxpayers, and on the other side a privateer who has a factory to provide raw materials. This as a farmer, and many farmers, I welcome. The diesel fuel regres will be 15 dinars a liter of 30 liters per hectare. It's not enough as it takes for agriculture, but one aid, since the fuel is expensive and agriculture is in bad shape. The wheat premium is one billion, and it's going to be like this year. Regres for breeding cattle is 402 million. Regres for raising new plantations of plums, 200 hectares are planned to rise, 50,000 per hectare is given by the government. To raise 100 acres of new vineyards for now. For short- and long-term lending of agricultural machinery and equipment registered to agricultural holdings, 3.5 billion, which can be used by farmers under 40 years of age if they pay for pension insurance for at least one year. The measures for improving the village provide for grants from 30 to 50% to invest in plants for the production of fruit, vegetables, mushrooms and flowers, plastics, drop-by-drop irrigation systems, investment in the purchase of the plant and the arrangement of sanitary conditions for growing cattle, improvement of product quality, expansion of organic production and plants for sorting and packing of fruit and vegetables. As I said before, whether it's enough, it's not, whether it's the most it could be, it is. And when all this is given by the Government of Serbia, there is something God-given, a good country, a lot of land, valuable people and a good climate. He's still in the government to lay down the rules of the game. As a host, I cannot agree that Serbia cannot go to Europe with agricultural production. The rules of the game must determine and lead to the sharing of the fate of importers and producers of repromaterials, banks that deal with agriculture, processors of agricultural products and farmers. If all four structures were to share fate, agriculture could go to Europe. Here's a classic example to take back. For sugar tail, 12,000 per hectare was given last year. Sugars gave farmers artificial fertilizer, in exchange for one kilogram of artificial fertilizer 9 kilograms of tail, about 21 dinars translated into the language of the people. The artificial fertilizer cost 14. It turns out the state wasn't helping the farmer, it was helping the sugar company. If it takes one ton of artificial fertilizer per hectare, the sugar cane took 7,000 from the premium farmer on the artificial fertilizer, and more than five took from him... That's why I'm saying, the rules of the game need to be laid down. Speaking of which, I still have something to say, maybe the government won't like it, about the pension insurance of the farmers. It's now 20 months late. I know the situation of the country, I know the needs of the budget, and as a host, I see some wastefulness that is not adequately taxed. Luxury goods and cars over 100,000 euros, which buy ester stars and newly combined so-called. Businessmen. I have a poor dictionary as a farmer, I'd say thieves, because I baptize things by the right name, I can be taxed more than 50%. These funds would be paid for the rest of the pensions for a year, and could be increased in the following year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9212	The People's Messenger Bojan Kekic has the word, and let him prepare himself; Bojan Kekic is not there; the People's Messenger has the Word of the Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9213	Ladies and gentlemen, today a fellow MP here said that the 2005 budget will not be voted by MPs who do not understand this proposed text or, as he said, for party ideological reasons. Let me tell you that we Serbian radicals will not vote for this budget, precisely because we understand this text perfectly and because we know the importance of the budget for the state. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is neither anti-inflation nor developmental, as Mr. Dinkic said, and certainly not social. We will not vote for this budget because and because Mr Dinkic said Serbia needs high economic growth, of course we agree, we know it should, but we do not know how Mr Dinkic meant it with this and this budget. With such a high deficit, it is certainly not possible and I am convinced that Mr Dinkic knows it, but he is trying in another way to present the text of the budget he proposed to the MPs, as he told his colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, that his remarks concerning NGOs in the explanation of the budget were explained, however, on page 82, where the minister said it was written, there is no. Of course, I'll tell him in detail when he's here. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, need public investment works. This is a perspective for Serbia's development, which is not foreseen in this budget. We Serbian radicals in this budget have seen indeed a series of illogicalities and what we are in principle in favour of abolishing agencies, offices, commissions and other para-state and para-organisms, we are also in favour of this budget to erase certain costs for these bodies, and we have certainly foreseen this through our amendments. What is characteristic of this budget, and what my colleagues have been saying, is that the budget significantly degrades Serbia-Montenegro's military and that this certainly goes hand in hand to this war against the military, and otherwise against state authorities and institutions. I agree that it should be stopped, but then it must not be encouraged through the budget. In our amendments, we have turned our attention and tried to propose to the government and the assembly majority how it should possibly intervene in this text, in order for this budget to be acceptable to us from the SRS. Given the shortness of time, I will only briefly look at certain items that are so truly characteristic and ask the Serbian Government and the assembly majority, which is the basis for President Tadic's costs to increase by 600%, which is why he deserved it. Whether all these funds are intended to be spent in, as he said, diplomatic activities, consisting of going to basketball or football games. Of course, I don't mind basketball or football, but I do mind the President of the Republic spending his time and money going to football games. When it comes to the Ministry of Justice and the Courts, I just want to ask the Minister in absentia why no special court funds are specifically marked here, if the funds for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office are marked. Is it because we know that a special court has already made expenses past last year's budget, and even more crimes have been committed there, and the big number is, has that left out here that MPs and the public of Serbia don't know the real truth about it or is it something else? There's a lot of illogicality here, but a little time, but I just need to mention the Foreign Investments and Export Promotion Agency, which provides 18,122,000 dinars, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is black humor. What are foreign investments and what is a promotion of exports, when we know that Serbia only imports and does not export anything. Of course, it imports what it does not have to import, rather than export what could still be exported from Serbia. Irregularities are also at the expense of the president of Serbia-Montenegro and his cabinet and foreign minister, but in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9214	I would like to thank the People's MP, Verica Radet. Break till 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. We would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 160 MPs. It's the draft budget law. Please determine the quorum, please ask the MPs to insert their cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. Thank you. I find there's a quorum to work with. We're continuing on the first item of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, and let Dusan Prorokovic be prepared and then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9216	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, citizens of Serbia, allow me to step away from the agenda at the very beginning and inform you that today is World Day Against Child Abuse. I think it is important for me in Parliament, and I call on all the other institutions of our country, as well as all the responsible citizens, to be involved in this struggle most seriously, because it is the biggest problem and the greatest shame of humanity. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow us to return to the subject. The topic is the draft bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget. The G17 plus parliamentary group will support this budget. They will support it because G17 plus has always advocated that in solving the problem we must be systematic, serious, responsible, that we must have a vision, that we must have clear proposals, concrete solutions and the goals we are fighting for. This budget represents all of it, it has that kind of approach, and that's why the G17 Group of MPs will support it. Let me say what is what the G17 Group of MPs plus specifically wants to support in this budget. First of all, I'd like to pray for a little quiet, if possible. At the beginning, I want to say that this budget is 15% higher than last year's budget. That specifically means that this year we'll all have more money together. This -- more money, will not be on the expense of taxes, which will be paid by citizens and businesses, because the tax charge has already been proposed. So businesses and citizens will be significantly taxed next year. Simply, most people will pay taxes. Tax discipline will be tighter. This is what we've already shown this year that we can and are giving significant results. Furthermore, this budget has been designed based on the fact that unemployment has been taken into account. We're sure this year we'll fight with unemployment successfully. Why? Because we're going to ensure economic growth. This year he's been the highest in ten years. Next year, economic growth is projected which, as we have seen this year, is feasible. He will, of course, lead to a reduction in unemployment. For the first time this year, the government has also designed a special credit line for microcredits, which will help people who are potentially out of work in the company restructuring process start to do new jobs and take the initiative for self-employment. There is another important measure in this budget regarding unemployment, which is in the tax policy next year, it is a tax exemption for employers who hire new employees, people who are employed. What's in this budget for G17 plus is still very important and what's what we're going to support to the fullest extent. It's a fair pay policy. We'll finally have a situation where people who work harder and better will be able to make more money, so we'll encourage them to work harder, work better, make more money, and finally start competing in work and not working hard, and forget once and for all that 90's max, "they can't pay as little as I can work." Pensions will be regular, consistent with the cost of living and income growth. Social givings have increased by 9 billion, therefore, in various areas and on various grounds. For the sick and disabled, 19% increase in administration. For the protection of families and children, foster care, parental allowance, child support, stay of children in preschool institutions, for mothers, for refugees is 16% more money. As far as other healthcare means care and assistance from another person, training for work, material security, family accommodation, we also have an increase of 50%. All in all, it's nine billion more for social contributions, to protect those who can't take care of themselves. As far as businesses are concerned, this is a development budget, or economy at all. I want to make it clear that this budget has been planned. In the previous budget and voting for rebalancing, there were different economists' opinions on whether or not there is a development component of the budget. Here and in public opinion, and in the opinion of analysts, and in the opinion of economists, we haven't had a chance to hear a lot of dissonant tones. So much is easier for us laymen in this area to believe and to know that this is the development budget. Why? Because restructuring of companies with problems and restructuring of public enterprises is envisaged. Because privatisation will be consistently and justly implemented. Because it will remain part of the subsidies for those companies that are not in this year solve their problems. So we will certainly have one economic growth and development. As for social activity, last year we had a significant increase in health benefits. This year we'll take care of the education. So, education will get a significant salary increase. As far as agriculture is concerned, the budget remains the same. So there will be a subsidy for agriculture, there will be a loan in agriculture still. The problems we had with the loans will be overcome by banks changing their policies in some way or simply being eliminated from this process. What's also important to us in G17 plus is that our country is projecting by this budget to pay its debts. It will pay debts to abroad, like any country that is a good partner to the international community and as any good Serbian host. And she will also pay internal debts, which are two and a half times bigger. This isn't the government that's making debts. This is not the government that takes it out of your pocket or makes you take it from your own pocket. So there's no primary show. No one's gonna take the money you take to the bank for savings. No one will force you to save or lure you into saving in banks that are essentially nonexistent, but that's why all those debts that have been made will pay you back, because this is the government that is responsible for the citizens. It's also very important. So what is the basic logic of this budget. The basic logic of this budget is that we work and make money. To force, to encourage healthy and capable to work more and better, and to make more and better products. To protect the weak and the powerless. And finally, to create a strong economy, a strong institution, a strong state, so that all together with our citizens can achieve a vision of a modern, stable, European Serbia. That's what the G17 plus supports. It's a vision G17 plus has and this is a budget that the G17 plus will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9217	Thank you. The People's MP Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let Petar Jojic be prepared and after him Zivorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9218	Dear People's MPs, during the discussion on the 2004 budget, which was brought in somewhat later than usual, and during the budget rebalance at the DSS parliamentary club, I had major controversy with Minister Dinkic and representatives of the ministry. I wasn't quite satisfied with those budget projections. They assured me it would all look different in 2005. I'm glad people stayed out of words, that they respected the deal. This budget for us from the DSS looks much better than we expected, given the situation in the economy and the realization of tax collection, the degree of gray economy compared to the overall economy and everything else. Today is November 19th, I don't remember that in the last six years this early the budget law came to consider the Republic Assembly. Therefore, some deadlines that are respected in all normal countries have started to be respected in Serbia, and this leaves enough time for parliamentary groups to make amendments to certain budget items, but also leaves enough time for public enterprises and local self-government to comply with their local projections, i.e. business policy. What's very important for this budget is that it's partially developed. Unfortunately, he's not fully developed. We all know the circumstances we live under, but it's anti-inflation. So the projected inflation rate for next year is much less than the projected inflation rate in the surrounding countries. Serbia has won an international credit rating B plus for the first time in its history due to its leading economic policy in 2004, but also because of its announced 2005 credit rating B plus. Of course, we would like that international credit rating to be a little higher, but if one continuity of this kind of economic and budgetary policy continues, I believe that it will be something different in the coming years. Also, Serbia has stabilised its gross social product per capita at $2,900 per gate, of course, with a trend of growth. This is also very important, as Serbia is third among the Western Balkan countries in this statistical context. The source of this data is the IMF and World Bank analyses. I remind you that Bulgaria and Romania have already entered the final process of negotiating with the European Union, so they are candidates for full membership. It is likely to become between 2007 and 2009. Serbia has reached two potential members of the European Union, who are again being admitted for some other political reasons, in this segment. With a further trend of growth, I think Serbia is slowly beginning to arrive at the Republic of Croatia, which is about $6,000 per capita. The budget also designed to lead one responsible fiscal policy, which will increase $2,900 per capita, and therefore I am a great optimist, as it speaks of reducing public spending and reducing fiscal burdens on the economy, including responsible wage policy. So this government may be doing something that will be unpopular in the general public, but something that will improve the work of public enterprises and that will primarily improve the work of the state administration. We need to cancel the re-training and because qualified personnel, operational, high-level, long-term administration, are not adequately paid, but also because on the labour market the highest quality personnel are currently taking foreign banks, domestic banks, companies that invest in our economy. We are experiencing paradoxical situations that, say, the budgetary inspector or labour market inspector has a lower professional arrangement than someone to control in a foreign bank, which is not an example anywhere in the world. Of course, we cannot force anyone to work in the public administration, we must motivate him and therefore welcome this kind of salary policy in the state administration, proposed by Minister Dinkic. Also, this budget provides for restructuring of public enterprises. Someone mentioned an example in the morning of Livnica in Queenda, who made an arrangement with the daughter of a French Citroen firm. So if this continues in other segments, if the other companies are restructured, if the strategic partners really come to Serbia, I think we can be optimistic and we can hope for something not only in 2005 but also in the coming years. I think the closest thing to it is the Zastava from Kragujevac, which has been written off about 40m euros in debt and which is precisely on the international market looking for a strategic partner. Also, budget allocations are much higher in the pay segment, for education, health care, which will have another increase in budget rebalancing, but are also projected to increase in the education segment and in the diplomatic segment. I would agree with some MPs here who said something about the State Department. I'll remind you, the Foreign Ministry is not just a minister. The foreign ministry involves a large number of employees who do responsible jobs. Unfortunately, today we have a situation where attachés in our diplomacy have 14,000 to 15,000 dinars. For the job of such responsibility and for the work for which we have such high expectations, and for the promotion of the state abroad and for the conduct of our diplomatic offensive regarding Kosovo and Metohija - I do not think they are adequately rewarded. So I would support this separation, but I would remind you that the National Assembly must worry more about leading to cost control, or budget implementation control. Also, some MPs were talking about the military budget this morning. I wish we could design a military budget for 100 billion. The military budget is currently projected at 43.2 billion dinars. We talked a lot about it yesterday on the Defence and Security Committee. If you compare the military budget, i.e. the defence ministry's budget with the interior ministry's budget, and the interior ministry includes both Gendarmeria and some other units of special purpose, the Ministry of Interior takes over most of the border control issues, or cross-border police units, then this military budget is big. I said we needed more control of the Assembly when budgeting. In light of the military budget, I would say that the decision of the Serbian Parliament's Defence and Security Committee has been unanimously made, in terms of control, for example, the sale of military assets now carried out by some Fund for Serbia-Montenegro Reforms, so what will happen to these funds, that will be spent, realised. If it is a military housing fund, and the Republika Srpska housing fund approves a million-euro payment, does this mean 30 apartments for the majors and lieutenants or one villa on Dedinj for a general. Therefore, in this respect, the Assembly and how it is necessary to undertake all activities, in order to better control the implementation of the budget, to control how public finances are spent and to prevent the budget from being misused. I think we got the support of all the parliamentary groups yesterday for something like that. I think that by establishing both existing authorities and some future authorities that are concerned with preventing abuse in public finances, Serbia can be much easier and much faster to Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9219	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zivorad Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget today is the most important financial institution for the financing of the state and its bodies. However, in drawing up and proposing this budget, I believe that the proposing did not respect the basic principles and principles of determining and proposing this budget. For one budget to be drawn up, it must come from the following principles -- the principles of budgetary balance, coverage and budgetary unity. Therefore, in my opinion, this budget is not made by these principles and principles. By my assessment and by the assessment of the MPs of the SRS, this budget is wasteful, we have to admit, whether we want it or not. If you only have one fact in mind and one fact behind which you can hide things. The use of services and goods, which are services and goods, special services and goods, I don't think the Government is a department store or a commercial company. If it is given that 41,384,000 dinars are intended for the use of services and goods and if we share that amount, then we would come up with the following information, so that we could pay 4.598.222 pensions of 9,000. So I believe that in many ministries, although differences are made and are perceived that some ministries were also more realistic when they were looking for certain means to obtain machinery and equipment and when it comes to this amount being passed through the budget as special services or services and goods. Something particularly highlighted today by the MPs of the SRS, which is the cost of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. In the election campaign, Mr. Boris Tadic promised that one part would be the national office, that a restrictions would be introduced, that there would be savings and that in this respect it would behave quite domestically. How, though, can it be said that it is domestic and that it is savings rather than wasteful? Eighty people are employed in the presidency where the President of the Republic is. In the past year, 33 million were allocated for the expenses of the President of the Republic, and 133 million this year. I think it's inappropriate and that it can't be approved or accepted, because there are no changed circumstances or legitimate reasons for that. According to this number, which I pointed out, which refers to the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and how many drivers are needed from the joint services of the Government, and how many bodyguards, and how much this is costing the state, I think it's inappropriate and very much. You have an item - the Office for Media Cooperation. 30,664,000 are planned, according to the 5,200,000 contract. What does that mean? This means that the Elder will conclude contracts with whoever he wants and pay beyond the control of what he wants, or hire party colleagues and colleagues and thus provide in the administration of jobs. That is what Serbian citizens cannot accept and could not be tolerated. The Anti-Corruption Council 14,600,000, again services contracted by five million. The Ministry of Finance is a special story. The budget planned 7991,000,000, and special services in this ministry are foreseen and established by the government at 342 million. What's this for? What kind of specialized services are these? Why aren't they shown? It is an interesting item relating to the tax administration of 5.554.000, with employees of 8,668 perpetrators. As far as the military and the police are concerned, the government has punished both the police and the military with this budget. I'll tell you just one piece of information, according to the Home Secretary's report, a review of the basis for the salaries of individual ministries; for the Police Department, it is 883.14 dinars, and for all other ministries it is 1,306 dinars. Therefore, the police and the military are being punished, the defence pillars of this country cannot be humiliated, the security of the state cannot be destroyed, and especially the NGOs that are going after the Dedinj, the Topcider and the Guard units, which should be prosecuted, I mean whoever writes about them in a negative context, and also the one who enters there from NGOs unauthorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9221	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic, but as far as we're concerned, you've had 45 minutes. Therefore, it is your party's request to terminate, not ours. For the sake of the Rules of Procedure, let me, however, no matter how they left the assembly session, so it doesn't turn out tomorrow if we broke the Rules of Procedure, so we didn't call them, I was forced to call Goran Knezevic for his word. He's not here. Free Mihajlović has a word. He's not here. Alexander Vlahovic has a word. He's not here. Milan Stanimirovic has a word. He's not here. Milan Markovic has a word. He's not here. Gordana Komic has a word. He's not here. There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Živorad Smiljanić, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic, and then to prepare Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9222	Dear MPs, looking at this budget that we are due to adopt today, is projected to make up for the 20.5 billion budget deficit with accelerated privatisation. I objectively expect that this amount of money from accelerated privatisation will not be realised, and what's a big problem today in Vojvodina is that many agricultural combinations to deprive themselves want to sell. I ask the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister not to allow us to be bought by foreigners by quick privatisation. In Vojvodina, you are now trying to combine many so-called large ones. Businessmen and foreigners buy, and especially from Hungary, I guess that's Soros' capital, Hungarians want what they lost in their country to make up for in our country. In fact, by privatizing 70% of the farmland, they sold it to the Austrians first and foremost. When the Hungarians realized they were going to be bureaucrats again with the Austrians, they passed a law prohibiting further sale of farmland. Serbia is the largest national treasurer country and we must not sell this national treasure to foreigners. I ask the Minister and the Government to pass the law and I suggest that all the social country be transformed into a state country, and that as such it cannot be sold to foreigners, and it cannot be sold to domestic tycoons, which unfortunately all they have bought so far is 90% so far. transparent privatisations bought 20% of the bookkeeping value. Recently, one group of Italians was in Apatin to see that they bought the Danube factory, and when they told them what the starting price was, 20% of the book value, they realized it was an inappropriate joke, because they can't believe that so much company could be sold for such small money. Everything sold so far has been sold mostly for 20% of the book value. So I ask and suggest to the Government that, by an urgent procedure, a law prohibiting the sale of land to foreigners, and that, after a brief procedure, we pass a law on turning the social country into a state country, because the state law cannot sell itself, and the social one can. That's why now there's a big rush on Vojvodina, and that's why from all over the world missionaries, and especially from Hungary, come to buy the combination that's in large debt, and in debt, they're due to the interest that the banks have imposed on them, interest on interest, and we'd better liquidate the banks than the agricultural combinations, and the most terrible thing would be to sell the farmland to foreigners. Therefore, I call once again on us not to sell a working country, not only in Vojvodina, but in all Serbia. The agricultural combination in Belgrade has turned all the social country into state. That's what I'm asking for the Apatin municipality, to turn our social country into a combined state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9223	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic, and then the messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9224	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I cannot agree with the minister that this budget, as he likes to say, is conservative. I would rather say that the budget for this government is too optimistic, because two parameters are taken on the revenue side of this budget, which is an inflation of 9.1%) and a GDP growth of 4.5%. I think it's unrealistic, because this year, without the introduction of value added tax, we already have an inflation that's more than 9.1%, just because the minister stubbornly and just wanted to increase the excise duties on oil and oil derivatives, and that somehow coincided with the rise in the price of crude oil on the world market, and that the inflation, which is already double-digital, restraint and does not go far worse than three figures. I have no confidence that the growth of gross products will be 4.5% next year, because for this year, the minister said, 8.5% was only for one reason: the only real increase in production was in agriculture. This government was lucky to be born this year, and it doesn't mean it's going to be next. Furthermore, as Mr. Minister thinks that 4.5% of production growth is in agriculture, because it alone can be relied on, if on January 1st, the Tax Act enters into additional value and if the current re-promaterial in agriculture has been fully tax-free, and now a 5% rate is imposed on it, and for some products and re-promaterials in agriculture 18%. How does he think farmers who are so tired and work on the edge of rentability can invest in extra value tax? To be an even bigger hypocrite, he says -- they can demand more tax refund, or more tax charged and paid, but on one condition -- that agricultural producers are registered as entrepreneurs, so they will have to keep business books, and 75% or 80% of individual agricultural producers in Serbia have 5-7 hectares of arable land. I would very much like to see this agricultural household that, with so little land, can pay a bookkeeper and ask for more tax returns. When it comes to inflation of 9.1%, I don't know how the minister and this government can do it, based only on the fact that the current general tax rate is 20%, and the value added tax will be 18%. Mr. Minister, that difference of 2% will be eaten in the calculation of trade and other margins, so certainly deflation will not be due to value added tax, but you will therefore start to tax with 8% of products that have never been taxed before: meat, bread, milk, eggs and other life-forms that essentially make up the total turnover of finished products in order of about 75%. The only thing that might be cheap is cars, but it's gonna be so insignificant, counting on the financial and purchasing power of a citizen. There is more illogicality in this draft budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 is in the deficit, and Mr. Minister stands out over two billion as a budget reserve. Every budget in the deficit shouldn't have a budget reserve. The increase in exports, I don't know how Mr. Minister thinks he's doing it, because I haven't found anywhere, I may have made a mistake, but I haven't found anywhere to see if there are any subsidies for export-related enterprises that place domestic goods on a foreign market at all. It's the only way you can increase exports, Mr. Minister, not just some stories. When it comes to the expenditure side of the budget, we'll talk a little bit more about the discussion of the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9225	The word of the messenger of the people is Sava Urošević; and let him prepare for the word of Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9226	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, the current government, led by the G17 Plus in the economic part, continues to make difficult reform decisions. After the fiscalisation that ends and the definitive decision to introduce a tax on additional value, and such a decision by several previous governments failed to make, deliberately or for some objective reasons, this government had the courage to make such a decision and prepared all the instruments for the introduction of this important fiscal instrument. We have before us a budget for 2005 and a Memorandum of Budget, Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2005, with a projection for 2006 and 2007. What is characteristic is the phenomenon of a memo, which is not only about the first year next year, but also about several years to come, which proves that this government is seriously considering the future and not about a short one-year period. At first glance, the 2005 budget is seen as a continuation of the economic policy started in half this year, which was verified in this assembly by the 2004 budget rebalance. One logical question is raised -- why the dates of the new economic policy and the budget date do not match, i.e. it can be interpreted in another way and say whether G17 plus gave up on a "populistic" policy, as they knew economic analysts and political opponents would say. The logical answer is no, because in the 2004 budget projection, the Ministry of Finance had a short period of projection, while there was not enough time to get to know the right level of public spending, as budgets of budget users were high in previous years. The 2005 draft budget sees faster revenue growth than expenditure, resulting in a decrease in the budget deficit. The budget deficit is projected at 20.5 billion, which accounts for 1.4% of gross social product. If we look at the Mastricht criteria, which relate to the member states of the European Union, which say the budget deficit is up to 3% of the social product, then this level of the budget deficit best shows how well balanced the ratio between expenditure and revenue in the 2005 budget is. An analysis of the revenue side shows that the largest item in the 2005 budget is consumption tax. The consumption tax, relative to the 2004 budget, has a trend in growth, and income tax, profit and capital gains, has a trend in decline. This points to a situation in which the economy will be relieved, and thus to an increased competitive capacity. I'd like to say one more thing about value added tax, and I'm telling you this because it represents 45% of the total revenue in the budget. The value added tax revenue in 2005 was projected to be 14% higher than that of the sales tax. If we get into the essence of that 14% and realize that it's made up of 9% of the projected inflation and about 5% of the projected growth of the gross social product, we come to the conclusion that this is one final conservative projection. Given the experience from countries in the environment, where this growth, for example, was 20% in Croatia, in Macedonia, 60%, I am convinced that this position will be at least 10 billion higher and I expect that in the middle of next year we will meet again in the Assembly in one session that will be devoted to budget rebalancing, so let's see how we will schedule this increased income and to which expenditure we will deploy it. Finally, G17 plus, regardless of the price, does not give up on its programme principles, which are primarily reformal and which advocate the recovery of the Serbian economy, which is the best indicator of the 2005 budget and the 2005 Memorandum, with projections for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9227	The word has the People's MP Dr Paja Momcilov, and let the MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9228	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you have already heard from my predecessors from the SRS, we will not vote for this budget, and our introduction, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has explained in detail why. I will join other colleagues from the SRS who want to talk a few words about this budget, not to be criticised for criticism, but with the intention of pointing to something that should be fixed anyway. I was free to point out some of the shortcomings that the government is not supposed to carry. This budget also carries these shortcomings, he has certain mistakes that are not allowed to contain such a serious document. On page 34, where you have the expense and income side of the Ministry of Health, you will see that the income side is again different from the cost of two million. There's progress, there was a three million difference in rebalancing, and now they've reached two million. Furthermore, by following a document called the Memorandum, it speaks of health care, and in this document you have material truths that must not stand in such a serious document. I quote – "reforming the health care system on the basis of the health care laws adopted, the Health Insurance Act, the Drug Act"; please, health care and insurance laws have not been passed and we cannot say that. Then it continues in the same sentence, that it may be even more tragic, and it says, and the laws are expected to be passed, as is the law of infectious diseases. We passed that law, please. It can't stand like this in your memo. You have to edit this text when you give it to us and we read it, believe me. Now what is the essence of the SRS's objections to a proposal that touches the health care service is what is contained in the reasoning of the proposal for a financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2005. Please, on page 267 you have an explanation of the financial plan and what do you see? Look at this, we know what happened to the budget's rebalance, and it's been drastically reduced funds to primary and health care. So, as it seemed, with a planned 28.8 billion now planned, the rebalance will be allocated to 19 billion, for more than 35% of the money being taken away from primary health care. And what happened? At the same time, a secondary with 21.9 billion has been allocated more funds and will end up with 32 billion, so-called hospital protection. Please, this new budget proposal follows that line. This proposal provides for the primary to receive 23 billion, so there will be no planned 28 since last year, and then it is said that primary health care, when we made the budget in March, is given the top priority. So he's giving up on it. We don't know why and what keeps going on. Growth and primary and secondary protection continue again. So, the resources are dragonically fucked by primary health care, and in all health care systems in the world, the best system of protection is primary protection, and it's carrying the system. All 80% of health needs should be achieved at the primary level. What we're getting now, when we're draconianly decapitating primary health care, and we should get an answer as to why it's done this way. Just one more sentence, my predecessors indicated that it was a very small income from customs at the border, somewhere around 8% of the budget will be charged. Please, our border is pornic. Let's see what's going on with the drugs, what happened. Today in our country, compared to last year, 60% more imported drugs, but it's not that problem, it's 20% of the illegal drugs. So they were imported through Republika Srpska and Macedonia, and large world firms. Recently, the distribution of 300,000 ampoules of longaceph was barely stopped, and as a donation to our homes of health and hospitals, which were without atheists, from Pakistan, and to the only misery it recently managed to prevent. Please, with these and these solutions, we can say that health care reform and health care has been brought into a very difficult situation, and we don't know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9229	The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and for discussion, let the MP Aleksandar Djordjevic be prepared. I remind you that we have agreed to replace it, so Zoran Antic is down there now, as agreed with the SRS parliamentary group. I accept your apology, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9230	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since some of my colleagues from the ruling coalition have brought out what is positive and acceptable in the budget, I will not look back on these things, but I would like to say a few words about some of the issues I have noticed. It first came to my attention that even this year we couldn't single out more for science, somewhere only about 0.3% of the national income. I realize we're still a poor country, but I also think we have to do everything we can to keep us from falling behind in scientific research. We must enable our scientific workers to at least monitor, if they cannot make their own contributions, at least to monitor the development of the most important scientific areas in the world, and of course, to do something ourselves in this development. It stayed that way this year, unfortunately, it couldn't have happened anymore, probably. Now I'm not going to talk more extensively about what it would mean to be behind in scientific work and in science at all, because there might be another opportunity when there's a law on university and a law on scientific research, when I'm going to have a chance to talk about it more. The other thing I noticed, which is that this year, one of our important scientific institutions, the Astronomeric Observatory, has lagged out of the budget as a special position in the budget. She used to be, when he was the minister of professors. Branislav Ivkovic, along with the Academy of Science and others, kicked out of the budget and transferred to finance through the Ministry of Science and Technology, is now the Ministry of Science and Ecology, and will never return. It is believed that the Astronomical Observatory should be returned to the budget as a special position, from where its basic activities would be financed. It is an institution that should be equal with the Academy of Science, with Matica Sr., with the Seismological Institute, with the Institute for Hydrometeorological Research and it must have a special position. She can't be financed from the Ministry of Science through the so-called. projects, because this Observatory has certain services that it must also perform for our country, such as the exact time, must deal with various observations and determine some parameters that it exchanges with foreign observatorys. It's her obligation, so she should have gone back. Unfortunately, I didn't submit the amendment, because I don't have detailed information on how much that part of the basic activity is needed to get into a position, and then, as other scientific institutions, they report their projects to the Ministry, if they can make any more money. I don't want to talk about the importance of this anymore, not to take up a lot of time, to tell you when it was founded, which our scientists were managers, not to mention what was discovered from the Belgrade Observatory, how many heavenly bodies, and these are very significant results, and that institution has to go back to where it belongs. Unfortunately, this time the government certainly doesn't have time to change that with its amendment. I think a lot of things can still be saved in this budget. Someone here mentioned the Anti-Corruption Council. Compared to 400 billion, 14 million are some negligible sum, but why didn't you give it up? That advice was set up by the former government. I don't know why. I know that many members of that council have resigned, and I don't even know what the composition of that council is, who is there, who isn't, and I see the lady giving some statements contrary to the government's policy, etc., and I think that this council should simply be abolished, in addition to the developed judiciary, the police and the prosecution, because no advice is necessary for that. Not to mention where else it might save a little bit, but that's for the minister to take care of, so if he manages to save something over the year, it'll be easier to cover the deficit. I would refer to each other's statements as a minister. He mentioned that the state no longer intends to grant subsidies to too large public enterprises and that they cannot solve all their problems by increasing prices, but rather have to take a little care of rationalising their production, etc. I would expand that not only to public enterprises, but to all production organisations. I'll give you two examples. One is like this, not to say very, very banal, but handsome for illustration, and the other is very serious. The first example is, I found out two or three days ago, one of our citizens bought one court, one sherpa of Italian production. The same sherpa, produced by "Metalac" from Milan, from the same material, the same shape, looks nice, is 500 dinars more expensive than the Italian one. Can we ask our citizens to be just as many patriots to buy our goods, if it's a side of the same or better quality and cheaper. So they must seriously imagine how to make lower prices of their products. Let's say, in the energy domain, it's known that we spend, we're real energy wasteers, several times more energy per product unit than it is in developed countries. They can make big savings, but someone has to deal with rational energy use in companies. I also learned today at my university, Machine, in an example, where our firm offered in an international competition to offer a place for a company in Western Europe. When the bids were gathered there, it fell out and they said – gentlemen, so you are more expensive than the German offer. It's not the German worker who pays less than our employee. What's this about? I understand that Germany, perhaps with better technology, may be doing more modern technology, but if we don't do that to take down our prices, to be at world level, if they can't be lower, we don't have a chance to deal with more serious exports.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9231	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and then MP Aleksandar Lazarevic from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, however, G17 plus no more time available, so get Zoran Antic prepared from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft budget bill for 2005. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the expenditure of the 2005 budget be 416.5 billion dinars and 396 billion dinars, which means the budget deficit for 20.5 billion dinars is projected. Mr Dinkic, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, said in his opening statement yesterday and stressed that the deficit in the budget would be covered by the following sources: credit duties, borrowing on the domestic financial market and part of privatisation revenues. In his next presentation, he referred to the restructuring of public enterprises, such as railways, NIS, EPS, Telekom, and in particular stressed a sharp reform in the state administration sector. You have passed a series of laws in this National Assembly, where you founded agencies with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can never reform if you think that by increasing the administrative apparatus in the state administration, by forming agencies with the government and the state administration, you can make restrictions in the state administration itself. It can be seen on the basis of this as predicted by the budget. For example, the tobacco agency, page 40, division 38, code 420 says – a total of 17 million and 700,000 dinars, so let's say split 39, Energy Efficiency Agency, code 430, predicts 132 million 766 thousand, split 30, for example, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, 324 million and 203 thousand, split 31, Foreign Investment and Promotion Agency, 37 million 254 thousand. And if it's meant to be, let's take a look at this part, where it's projected separation for the Kosovo District, 6 million and 350,000 dinars. It shows what the draft budget is like. You confessed to the National Assembly, Minister, that you didn't have a program when you formed a government. Does this mean that in a few months, if this budget in the Republic Assembly passes to you, you will admit that you did not have a clear plan and a budget programme and a proposal to the National Assembly for 2005 and who can now, after all that you have declared to this speaker, believe you in Serbia? After all, in today's address to the MPs what you personally think about the military and I think you can keep your private opinion to yourself, and all the projections that are important to the state will be discussed by the competent state authorities, the National Assembly and other institutions. The budget you propose to the National Assembly, first of all, is not a developmental budget and it is not a budget that will not bring security in the country, as you say, on the economic side, and I will especially stress that the SRS will not vote for this budget of yours for 2005, because we believe it is neither developmental nor social. It is a clear sign to Serbian citizens that they should behave in the next elections, which I hope will be soon and that then the SRS will defeat all of you who have represented DOS in the last four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9233	The word has the People's MP Zoran Antic, and let Ostora Stojanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are at the end of a budget debate. It seems to me that the MPs who support the government seem to be very optimistic about this budget and I would not be able to share that optimism, because what bothers me most about this budget plan is inflation, and the inflation of 9% is too great, it is close to double-digit inflation, and in any case, in the course of next year, difficult moments are expected in our economy, for our citizens, because it is inevitable that you react to inflation with a restrictive monetary policy. This certainly means a decline in economic activity, it certainly means a drop in purchasing power and I think that one of the reasons why you are incurring a budget in relation to VAT is quite modestly projected precisely by the fact that there is a major indifference in the economy and that the inflow into the budget is less than you should expect, given that VAT should mean a significantly better, safer and greater inflow into the budget. From what I would, with inflation, single out as a bad solution in the draft budget, it is in any case a reduction in subsidies. This should not have come at this time, because for economic subsidies above all I think it is the government, the Ministry of Economy, possibly the Privatisation Agency, and the reason for this is the slow restructuring of large social enterprises. In your exposé, you promised to significantly speed up the restructuring of these companies, but we've had those promises so far. These large enterprises, first of all by the government's mistake and not by management, because he has no interest, have lost interest in these companies the moment we entered the privatisation process, so these companies are inevitably failing and we are in a situation where, if we have fewer subsidies from the budget, we can expect a lot of them to go bankrupt, which would be a great pity for these large collectives, because certain cities so-called live, depend on these companies. When it comes to agriculture, I think you've done quite a bit of damage to this plan of the agriculture budget. The resources you allocate have been increased only by as much inflation as is foreseen by this budget plan. I'll remind you that you've already reduced agricultural expenditure by about a billion and 500 million dinars by budget rebalance, and agriculture has helped to have this much growth in production in the previous year. We had a good year behind us and needed budget funds to boost the processing industry and make more profit in agriculture. I think it's a major failure to propose this budget. You mentioned and promised that we would have a more serious government attitude towards the number of employees, according to the costs, means that we would have more serious savings on this issue, that is, when it comes to public enterprises, but very little you talked about public municipal enterprises, and I think they too have to go into the cost reduction process. There is little money allocated for employment, it is too little, given that the economic situation next year will be quite difficult and that it may have been an opportunity to respond eventually and preserve the number of employees we have at this time. All in all, this budget continues with old practice, where personal spending is put first, where there is not enough investment. As much as I've seen on machines, and on investment in institutions, you've saved quite a bit. This budget is essentially not developmental, which is expected of us, and I believe the SRS will not vote for this budget for a reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9235	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here's a word from the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Rules of Procedure to make a statement on the extension of work until the end and vote on the 1st item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9237	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 107, against 35, it did not vote eight out of 150 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. Please, Mr. Albianic, I accept the motion to extend it to the end of this point, but when will the president decide? Thank you. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to point out that we are discussing the most important law in a year. In time, you set out to propose a budget. I assume you've secured most of it, if it is. I don't understand why such a rush, and I just want to express my protest for the fact that for reasons unknown, we're going to have to work late at night and the question is how much of us will be able to concentrate. I suppose you'll also set a day to vote right away, but I want to tell you -- if it's what's going on in the halls, what's said, and these are going to buy these, and they're going to buy those, I want to tell you -- the thief in the Assembly shouldn't be and shouldn't be. I know some people are scared, that they're answering, that some people want you to keep your mouth shut about someone's attacks. Guys, there can't be a steal of a mandate. That's why it's your fault, because your President of the Constitutional Court has made criminal decisions. But don't let it bother you any more that we're bored, that we're exhausted, that we're struggling, unlike some who don't care what happens, and they just came to push the green, yellow or red button. There are many MPs who have worked, who have written amendments, who are trying to follow the discussion and who want to participate in the discussion. And, since I know that you have already made this decision, and that it cannot be changed, I don't think that at this point we ourselves, as Serbian radicals, in this National Assembly, are able to do it, but I want to point it out to you this way, and I want to tell you that it's hard for the country if you think about whether anyone, even if it was one of the most powerful businessmen, and even if it was another political party, whose head is the President of the Republic, to buy you MPs overnight; then it's a poor country and the Assembly, but I'm sure they can't be either. I'm convinced that we can change that, that we can work completely normal and once and for all stop the thieving. As one of the most experienced MPs in the National Assembly, I saw it. When I gave you the example yesterday of Mr Vojvodić, who wanted to move from the People's Party to the SRS, and Mr Seselj told him – return the mandate, in the next term you will be an MP, it has been 10 years since he refused to return the mandate then, Mr Vojvodić then became a member of the SRS. So, if it's about ideas, it can always be done with honor, but don't let us because there are wicked people, because there are some thieves, because there are some who have learned to kidnap and steal, whether they rule, whether they're destroying or not, that's why all the MPs in the National Assembly are scolded. And, regardless, we will, of course, do, because we want the amendments, and our other MPs in principle to point out the bad things, to point out the bad side of this budget, to show why, above all, economic policy is going to be worse than the one that we would have made in the coming period, so in the coming year, but we are asking you never to underestimate the MPs, you don't judge them in the way that you would want to be seen by someone else, to suffer from someone's purchase, from someone's robbery and theft. Because if the National Assembly is unable to prevent a robbery, to prevent theft and kidnapping, then this business should not be done. Once again, I am proud that in neither the previous term nor this term, any MP of Serbian radicals, and 82 of us has not been bought, but I am even happier and prouder of the facts, and I think every citizen who voted for us, which we have not tried to buy at any moment, because we do not prefer anything more than the respect of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9239	Because of the correctness of the atmosphere, it's important that we talk about what's key to the agenda. Of course, the congregation as the highest authority of government will not be responsible for any theft, so it never happened in this congregation. But I also have a lot of understanding for the fact that by the end of the debate there are little less than 45 minutes left, that a large number of amendments have been accepted and I have a lot of understanding of the willingness to work on what is farthest important in this country, which will depend on the way of life of all our citizens. Of course it's not hard for MPs. I thank you for understanding, and I hope we all work together tonight. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Osto Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not criticise this budget, but since I am a member of the Privatisation Committee, I must quote Mr Vlahovic, former Minister of Economy and Privatisation. At the second or third session of the Privatisation Committee, Vlahovic literally said all the privatisation results will be seen from half of 2004, i.e. the improvement will occur. It's a 2003 privatisation. So, what was privatized in 2003, since the middle of 2004, will go better. In 2005, said Mr. Vlahovic, we will import labour from abroad, Comrade Minister. Mr. Boris Tadic said in his election campaign on several occasions - 500,000 jobs are opening immediately. There's no such thing as a job. I'm going to pay a little attention to the Privatisation Agency now. Mr. Minister, I'm about to tighten all the belts, not some to tighten and some not. I have here for 10 months the cost of the Privatisation Agency: consulting houses 197 million, gross personal income 131 million, 22 million ads, PTT service 12 million, fuel bonuses two million 700 thousand, three million 700 thousand, commercials four million 580, 504 million total. It's to spend a hundred small businesses selling. These 250 employees spend 504 million dinars. Minister, I have a question for you - do you have someone in control of your ministry auditors and asset appraisers? You don't. I mean authorized auditors and capital appraisers. I was at the Association of Auditors and Bookkeepers of Serbia at Mr. Skobic Peter's. He accepts to control auditors who are members of the Association of Auditors and Accountants of Serbia. Another question for you ministers - is there somewhere in the world that one agency sells capital and controls the sale of capital? There's probably no place in the world. As far as customs duties, baggers and heavy machinery imported were not allowed to be older than six years. Old machines have been imported for 10 and 15 years. I saw four machines where the declaration was made that they were under the age of six. That's where someone took the money normally. Out of the privatised companies in the worst situation are the "Source" Valjevo, Gorica's Trade Company Belgrade, "Electron" Kraljevo, "Poljo equipment" Kraljevo, "Auto Transport" Vranja Banja, "7 July" Kursumlija. The state of Serbia has provided a social programme for the Valjev skin industry, for 95 workers. This newly-roasted buyer, or thief, has given one sum, not all workers are paid. There's something I wanted to tell you about Krusik. Krusik is a large military company. Did you predict anything for the people who had an underprivileged job experience? They've worked, they've got 40 years of work experience, and they don't have age, so they have to keep working until they're years old, and they've been working on benefits. They can't retire because they don't have age, and they're 42 or 43 years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9241	I thank Parliamentarian Ostoj Stojanovic. The People's Messenger Bojan Kekic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9242	Fellow MPs, respected ministers, when it comes to the budget, then it is an opportunity to say about everything that happens in the government one year, and above all how budget users do. Given the fact that it is time for the SPS parliamentary group to be discussed at the end, I would only talk about two users, and how important the beneficiaries of the budget, which are, the Republic Road Directorate and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic Road Directorate was established by the Law on Road Economy, and how important but also a great beneficiary of budgets, but also the fact that we in the Committee on Transport and Communications, colleague Stamenkovic is the chairman of the Committee, we have not received a report for 2003, nor a plan for 2004. And on a specific case where the Republic Road Directorate is competent and responsible for maintaining the highways and regionals, I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the bridge on the river Mlava, in the vicinity of the Pogorets, is only being remedied for five months. This means that the honest peasant, who would never allow his crops to be harvested, walks 25 and 30 kilometers of oil to harvest his crops. Despite all sorts of emergencyes, above all, according to the Republic Directorate, and that's why I'm sorry that Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus got out of the O.R. a few moments ago, we couldn't get to that real solution, that is, to speed it up. We've done some temporary solutions, but if the damage is calculated, whether the performer is good or not, as they were saying, they chose him themselves, we've come into a situation that five months doesn't work on the highway or as we call it the "Jerdapic Highway". When it comes to talking and talking about the Development Fund, a few days ago we passed the Business Society Act, we annulled the Company Act, and many companies were able to preserve their substance through the Development Fund in time and sanctions, as well as transitions, and we came to the situation that the Development Fund did not submit a report to the National Assembly but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What is a systemic error in me is that the funds in the Development Fund are defined in a small amount, as foreseen by the 2005 budget, but the bottom line is that all privatisation funds should go to the Development Fund and with these funds to raise both the economy and individual companies, both in regional and structural terms. If a company, i.e. an earlier company, and comes into a situation where, in addition to various elaborates, justifications and everything else, they compete with the fund, if the fund is approved by certain funds, the implementation technique is extremely difficult. We expect the Guarantee Fund, and we have a promise from the finance minister, to move very quickly, but there are some difficulties, given that in the banking system we have come into the situation that in many cities there are very few business banks, in the sense that they are developing business banks for certain regions, that these are banks that are related to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where certain deposits could be collected in a certain way and placed in the economy. In particular, 19 banks have opened up in Pogorevec in the past few years, and out of these 19, only one at the branch level, or only one in one hand is independent, and this is the JJ bank, while all others, who probably come to cheap sources of funds, offer banking services in their broad beauty, but which primarily refer to the lending of natural persons or to a small part of the economy. Therefore, the banking system certainly lacks these development banks and puts us in a position that certain companies could not even enter privatisation. The Minister of Business and Privatisation is aware of this, the Meat Industry of Fireman, which has been one of the strongest slaughterhouse industries in the old Yugoslavia for years, and now, which has been supplying the military for years during the war conflicts, which is precisely why it ate its substance, comes into a situation that it cannot carry out a bankruptcy, because they are not in a position to pay 250 thousand dinars. As you can see, in my discussion, I am not talking about the budget, but I am talking about budget users, and it would be good if the government, if it thinks they implement the programme, within their control, control and any other functions towards these companies, comes in, controls the budget, controls the way these funds are spent, and whether they are in the interest of citizens. I will take advantage of the opportunity, and I have been asked by the Alliance of Pensioners, given that, as a category and through the budget, a abolished item for social standards, and there is a promise that 50 million dinars will be paid to the Alliance of Pensioners, in order to properly ensure the social standard of their pensioners, their members, to do so in order to succeed in certain emergency and intervention measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9243	The word has a folk MP, Stevica Dedjanski, and for discussion to prepare MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9244	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, as the most powerful group in parliament, will not vote for this and this budget. There are many reasons why it is, but one of the greatest is because it is neither developmental nor social. I'll list a few anomalies for you now, and there's a lot of them. There are a huge number of agencies, commissions and offices that the SRS has warned all this time as unnecessary and harmful, as special centres of power. This is clear in this budget, because 760 million dinars are being allocated to the functioning of all kinds of agencies, offices and commissions. We have a Lustration Commission that gets millions. The co-ordination body headed by Nebojsa Covic, who spends and arches our money. It's a sum that counts even billions of dinars. According to the proposed budget, the pension fund is the same, but in addition to inflation, which is estimated to be around 10% next year and the price rise to small, pensions will be less realistically. Why isn't that money transferred to pensions or child benefits, to apartments or to millions of other important things. I almost forgot about the Serbian Barbie, Boris Tadic, who has his 184 million budget, and he has 23 million of his own, and his Shipatarian lobbyist, I would call him Vuk Draskovic, a man who has checked the bow on money, has 57 million dinars himself. And it is still allowed for Boris Tadic to receive some 40,000-euro donations. That money could have been rerouted and given to the military. The people expected this so-called. Serbian Barbies to fulfill the promise they made in the presidential campaign, to start production, to raise salaries and pensions, not to make money on themselves and that he and his tick alone have bigger salaries. I would also have to mention that the people expected there to be no more visas, as promised, and not yet to prohibit our basketball players from going to Croatia. Now you can see how much vermin and liar it is. Mr Dinkic, you said that foreign exchange reserves are $3.8 billion, and Serbia is crying out for fresh money. We all know that the Serbian economy is collapse. You also boast of the economic growth of 8%, and we all know that thanks to the good conditions for agriculture, the government's failures to start the economy. You also said that we want long-term and sustainable economic growth, and we have a huge external trade deficit. This year will amount to over eight billion dollars, with a total of over $34 billion since 2001. That's how much you're costing the people so far officially, and if we add the thieving of Tadic and his interest groups, so-called. The yellow company, we see that you've done more damage than NATO bombing. I'm an MP from Vrsec, and only in Vrsec did more damage, I can guarantee it. Also, you said we'd continue with a tough fiscal policy, where as a prime example, you say that wages grow faster than productivity. If someone didn't live in Serbia, they'd think the people lived in abundance and the salaries were huge. Mr. Minister, everything's gone, all the prices have gone to the sky, gas, electricity, food, and as far as we've heard, we need gas to go. You are now indirectly saying that wages may also need to be reduced. I'd like to refer eventually to your speech on the Employment Fund, where you say local self-government should help with budget money. One of the local budget's revenues is privatisation, but we have an example of a colleague from The Tower who brought us information that nothing was paid. I'll keep talking about the amendments, and the next speaker will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9245	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, and for discussion to prepare MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9246	When the topic is budget, then probably in the first part, there must be talk about the government's economic policy, and in the second part about how much this people cost the state administration. There is almost nothing to say in this first part, as economic policy has been being implemented continuously since 5 October 2000. It's an economic policy of DOS, one trial of economic policy directed by the IMF, a policy where our market is open as a can, is not protected by anything, a policy in which privatisation is possible, everything is privatized, and by the rule of nothing. The result of this economic policy, which is being implemented continuously, is DOS's economic policy, is that the average pension is 9,000 dinars and the average salary is 14 thousand dinars. The data itself speaks for itself, and that means that this cost of transition and that pain was felt only by citizens and then we talk about the second part of today's topic, and that's how much this country's citizens cost. According to some data provided by the minister, which differ significantly from the principal views of his vice president, Mr Labus, of course 10 years ago, we practically have a budget of 473 billion this year. In these 416 billion inflows, these internal sources should be included, and these are the independent revenues of the 57 billion state authorities. This people can't pay for it. There are no opportunities for these funds to be collected, or the state to have its monopolies, and it will collect a significant part of those funds, but it will again be painful for Serbian citizens. All the unrealities and failures in this budget we'll talk about when we talk about the amendments, but this budget says that the state administration is expensive. If the government is in favour of efficiency, then it wonders one opposite process of atomising the state structure of the agencies, independent regulatory bodies and other para-state bodies. These are two completely different processes. If someone figures that through customs and taxes they will provide more significant resources, then I have to tell you that a good part of the goods that is on the market with us, these are goods that come from abroad, which are imported, directly competing with our goods, and the income is achieved by the state, the one that it needs, which it has drawn up, but there is no other feedback about the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The consequence of that is that every day in the paper you just read that another factory is closed, that it doesn't work and that it waits so on. A strategic partner. In that general degradation, you know, the army is on the first strike, it's on strike a long time ago, and now it's the police, and it wouldn't surprise me if in a month the attack went on and on the Serbian Orthodox Church. Our society is ruined, the state structure almost doesn't exist, and all because of democracy and human rights. So we have an expensive state and we don't accept this concept of expensive state. That's why we're voting against this and this budget. Whoever wrote the budget doesn't care how he registers the funds from privatisation, whether he registers them as regular income or presents them as a source of funds for deficit financing. It needs to be interrupted with these games and actions, because nominally everything can be presented in a different way and it can be realistic and how painful. This budget will be a budget of pain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9247	The word has the deputy SRS parliamentary group, MP Alexander Vukic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9248	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the SRS, have already repeated this several times, will not vote in favour of the draft budget law. As the largest, not only opposition, but even the political party in Serbia, we have presented a number of reasons for this. First of all, we do not accept the way in which the budget deficits are filled, as envisioned by the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that specialised services should be regulated, or financed by the authorities, rather than added to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That would save 6.8 billion dinars. We also believe that we can save at least 700 million dinars by removing or not giving money, huge money, for various agencies, offices and commissions that serve nothing. I came out to, first of all, talk about what is a very expensive administration and an incredible cost to the citizens of Serbia. Since this morning, we've been talking about cars purchased by the government of the Republic of Serbia, about 218 cars. Mr. Minister, I will also talk about the energy mafia, about Vuk Hamovic and the others. So we talked this morning about a 218 car that buys the government of the Republic of Serbia. We haven't received the report yet. We expect to see what it is. But we from the SRS have received information that these cars are also being bought for the President of the Republic, or for his advisors. It is not true what Mr Dinkic told us, who said it was for inspections, for professional services. The most luxurious cars for the President of the Republic's cabinet are purchased. Serbia's citizens are being taken money so that he and his advisers have new cars, that Vuk Jeremic, who is in no condition, although we were all able to predict who would win the US elections, do such damage to this country, come out and, after the election is over, say he expects Mr Keri's victory. Is that supposed to get new cars? It is difficult for him to drive in old and taxis, rather than for Serbian citizens to pay for it, and that he and others can use it. Is that an inspection? What kind of inspection is that? Should they go somewhere in the field? Yeah, they promised new jobs and bigger salaries and pensions, but I haven't heard of them going anywhere yet. Who knows who else in the government should go, but we couldn't get that information, even though we were expecting it. I am waiting to see and get an explanation of who gets the most luxurious cars and how many of them go to the government of the Republic, both to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to professional services. I want to read to you in detail now, so that you may see what illogicalness you, the messengers of the congregation's majority, will vote. It is said this: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, no service contract, except in professional services, service contracts at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia amount to 15 million dinars, foreseen by the budget, and such contracts in the presidency of the Republic are 23,200,000. What are we talking about? For this large National Assembly, social benefits to employees are 700,000, and for the presidency building 600,000. Are you here screwing up the nation and all the citizens of Serbia? Do you want to cultivate Caesar, is that your goal? What about the State Department? One of the speakers of the ruling majority today said this does not apply to the minister, that this applies to our diplomatic-consular representations, etc. No, what I'm saying is about the cabinet of the minister and the MIP. I asked Minister Dinkic and I didn't get an answer - what is 20 million for specialized services? Translations don't go into that, they go favors by contract. What are the specialized services of 20 million, let them tell me any of you in the O.R. It's the money of Serbian citizens. I expect someone to answer me. We know where money is taken from - from our people, from our citizens, but what it goes for, nobody knows it in this room. I'm asking the minister to explain to us what the money is for, what the services are for under contract 54,931,000. The complete DKP, the entire division, all of our DKP, I don't know if you've noticed, have a significantly smaller amount of money determined by this budget than what's assigned only to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and most of all for something that no one alive understands. Machines and equipment - 30 million. What kind of machines do you buy? I also see with the President of the Republic of Machine and Equipment - 10 million. He says, 3 million people will probably give him a gift, as he goes, an extra income from the authorities. What kind of income does the President of the Republic have? I didn't know there was. Do you know how to explain it to me? Is that what someone gives the plane tickets of 2,600,000, and it says -- expenditures from the additional incomes of the authorities. I can read, I know what I'm asking you, but there's no one to explain it to me. Thirty-five million travel costs. Now let me tell you, today I've been making calculations, it's every day like someone's traveling on the Belgrade-Peking line. Nothing else works in life, but Belgrade-Peking flies every day. Because sometimes he's gonna have to be here to go to some basketball and football game, that means he's gonna have to go to Belgrade-Peking every day and back. The situation with Serbia-Montenegro's foreign ministry is even worse. He's the only one who knows how long he's got. There it is, 98 million. Ninety-eight million, he can buy a big airline, a serious airline can buy. I don't think it's funny at all. Our amendments are primarily aimed at bringing that wasteful part of the budget down to a more rational level. We're not here to take revenge on anyone. We won't take revenge on anyone or our political opponents. We want to bring their debauchery down to a reasonable level. The budget of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot be reduced to 50% compared to last year, it should be, by 70%, but so much will the budget of other state authorities be reduced, not that the office, the cabinet of the President of the Republic gets 600% higher, and that is by this budget, ladies and gentlemen, from 33 million to 184 million, and from here the Assembly goes from 1.500,000 to 740,000,000. That's what we're talking about today. That has to change. You want to tell me how it must be, and here's an example. I received from Jagodina, according to Ivica Stevanić, president of the DS Municipal Committee in Jagodina and Goran Petrovic, president of the SO Jagodina Executive Board, it was until they were replaced, they paid 1,177,000 for the uniforms, no big deal, and those 1,177,000, that is, those uniforms, were donated as DS donations. Around the vehicle, only in one month, 200,000 peso dinars, used by the chairman of the municipal board of the party, which had nothing to do with the Assembly of the Municipality. Do we finance that, whether Serbian citizens give money for this, for 218 cars for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia, for which Mr Dinkic is unable to tell us who they are for; he says, it is not for the Ministry of Finance. No, but for someone in the government, it is, for the President of the Republic, to hear about who. We haven't gotten that report yet, we're waiting to see, waiting for the citizens to see, because for those cars alone we could hire more than 500 people. Five hundred young educated and educated people looking for a job, just to avoid driving someone's advisor in a luxury limo, because it occurred to him that he must have a car, he must have a car, it's very, very important. So, because he's going to listen to someone's orders about how Serbs make elections in Kosovo and Metohija, so he has to drive in a luxury limo. Not necessarily, the people must not starve, the people must live normally, the people must have new jobs, not in this way to treat the citizens of Serbia. The SRS parliamentary group predicted that this is precisely why subsidies for agriculture were increased from 11 billion to 13.5 billion and that is what we should invest in. In our production, to where money can be returned, where we can achieve excess values, not to satisfy individuals who don't know what they're going to pay off. They don't know what they're going to do with the power of power, they don't know what they're going to do with their greed and grampism, and here I'm ending it, that's what we have to stand up to. I'm still looking for an answer, so tell me if our budget is 416.5 or 473 billion, because if we're counting this, it's 473 billion. Tell me what specialized services are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what kind of contracts are at the service of 23 million in the Presidency of the Republic. Whatever it is, let anyone out of power, Mr. Minister, you can come out, even if you're talking about demonopolization that didn't occur, of private interest in the sphere of energy. Somebody come out and explain what that means, it's a joke, it's a dream come to mind, come on, write it down somewhere else that I have so much to spend. I'm gonna have to make a promotion to one sponsor, so for 30,000 or 40,000 euros, I'm gonna give him a promotion, he's the one who helps all state authorities and how he gives his equipment to the highest state authorities, so it's clear to everyone after that that they have to buy from him. What are we, stupid, you think we're all idiots here, that nobody understands anything, is that how you promote a company? That's how it's done, it's an additional three million income, and seven million will be set aside after the state for new equipment, among other things, to pay for the equipment later. That crime, that corruption, we won't allow it. That is why we expect changes, so we expect answers on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9249	Dusan Proroković, a replica and then a National MP, Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9250	I didn't ask for a replica on behalf of the MPs' club. I think part of these questions was answered by the minister, and I'm going to answer part of it. I went out myself because I was misquoted. So, I said something about the Foreign Office, I'm staying with everything I've said. The foreign ministry has one part of its employees in its building, it's a corner of the streets of Germany and Prince Milos and, of course, it has a DKP. As far as travel costs are concerned, and as a servant under contract, what Mrs Radeta asked with her amendment to delete, does not apply to the foreign minister. It refers to all the employees, a few hundred employees working here, and I would be most fortunate if this 98 million could increase. Travel expenses, of course, we have the head of the Asia Directorate here. Let's ask this man whether he leaves once or not a year for India, China, Japan, South Korea, all the important countries with which we should cultivate diplomatic relations, which represent potential markets for our goods and services. We have a Directorate for Africa, we have different kinds of directorates, so these 98 million, I think the most modest sum that could be singled out, so that our diplomacy, or professional diplomats from the Foreign Ministry, would encourage and provide certain resources to do a job that they've been trained and qualified for. Also, as far as the DKP is concerned, I think this is too small a sum. So we have attachées that work in France or Germany for 1,200 or 1,300 euros. There with that money you can't live normally and then we all wonder why the state is so bad for us in Europe, which is a bad rating, which is a bad image. Normally, when diplomats pay 15,000 dinars in Belgrade and 1,200 euros in Strasbourg or anywhere else. I wish we could increase these sums as much as possible, because I think our diplomacy has a tradition, there are enough educated and professional personnel and I think it can do a lot. As for the minister's expenses, I suggested that as Mr Jocic, the interior minister, proposed for his sector, for his segment, parliamentary committees for the control of each ministry individually, so that we could see how much it cost for public administration professionals, how much each minister costs individually with his cabinet, was the DSS minister or there was another party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9251	Mr. Wolfie, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure or what? The replica was on your exhibit, Mr. Prophetic felt he was misread, but he recognized himself, so I understood. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've now made a brief bill. The state, of course, can achieve a much better contract, especially at an annual or multi-annual level, but let's say a return card to Beijing, if you're talking about Asia, it's 600 euros. Let's say it's 50,000 dinars, shall we? Okay, 10 tickets back to Beijing is 500,000 dinars, so we have 196 times 10,000, and that's 1,960 cards. So 1,960 tickets just to Beijing and back, and at a full price, and you know it goes even lower. That's all I've told you, Mr. Prophetovich, and I can agree with you, and I won't be demagogue to say that our DKPs should be left without money, that they should do nothing. On the contrary, I think they should do a lot abroad, but not what they've been doing so far. I think that first of all they should fight for Kosovo and Metohija, fight for our country, not fight against their political opponents. On the other hand, how many employees you have in Croatia. You have 50 at the consulate and embassy, and what are they doing? They're removing our army from our borders. What was done for our people? Who are you sending? Some of them you sent, I know how it works in coalition governments. Hardly. They're looking for each other, and they're looking for each other, and this doesn't apply to you personally. You know very well that some of you sent away, that they are already at 11 o'clock in an alcoholic state, at 11 o'clock in the morning. We all know them. You want me to list the countries they're in? In one of the most important countries are the heads of our DKP, but the problem is, the main problem is that the shadow knows who it refers to. You have the DKP below, but not the cost of travel, which is the essence, as you know, Mr. Prophetic. It's a lot less going on. And our people who deal with the Arab world, and our people who deal with Russia, who will deal with the North American continent. No, it's the most direct. The minister, the counselors, same as here in the building across the street, because they think they're God's days to do whatever they want, because they think they can take money from the people as much as they want and because they don't respond, because they're the most powerful and wisest, because they're counselors. There's the point of things, I know you agree here, and I know that everyone in Serbia agrees, everyone in Serbia knows it well. We'll stop it once, there are people who want to tell them – that's enough, that's enough. Listen, they came, it hit them, so now they're gonna have new luxury cars for counselors. It's hard for them to buy their car, because they're very successful, they've worked abroad and they're very valuable, but they don't have money and they don't want to spend that money on it, but they want this country and the citizens of this country, who are black- howling, to pay their cars, and they're going to wait when they come down from power to spend their money, and until then let's rob this Serbia as much as we can and how we can. That's what we have to stop, that's what has to be stopped. There's still some illogicality about social contributions to employees, they're absolutely amazing. So, we have social benefits for employees, it looks like the relatively smaller number of persons, so much more social benefits, because the elder of that body is going to boast that it's very good and at whose expense. The cost of the people of Serbia, of the people's hunches. We have to stop that, and this money can't have, 1960 return tickets to Beijing, because he would use it. It doesn't matter if it goes anywhere near New York, something to South Africa, something to Helsinki, doesn't matter which side of the world. What's important is that they can't abolish our army, and that's going to go for our soldiers, that they have something to eat, that they can be decently armed, that they can defend this country, not that they're allowed to further destroy our country, our position in Kosovo and Metohija, our army, our defense security system. That's why it has to be lifted, to the people less money to take, and to give it to a better place, also to the people to return.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9253	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9254	I'll be very brief. I have already explained, the essence of my communication in the debate in principle and reporting for replication is to say that this amendment is not at all feasible, because this is not about the foreign minister, or his cabinet, but about the travels of all employees. The second thing is, see how many annual meetings of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, whose Serbia is a member. How many annual meetings does the Council of Europe have? So some of our personal, professional diplomats have to travel. Also, if you want us to control budget implementation, I told you already, you'll have the biggest ally right in the DSS. Here, first let's start with our ministries, from the ministries where the minister named herself DSS, to see how many secretaries, how many vehicles, how many ministers have spent, who they all hired in the cabinet. We're not running away from it at all, so let's move on; there's parliamentary control of the work of all ministries. Of course, I'll agree to these travel expenses of the president, I've already said in the principle debate that there are certain illogicalities. The travel expenses of the President of the Republic, I must agree with you, have been projected at 35 million dinars and the entire government at 21 million dinars. How the travel expenses of the President of the Republic's cabinet can be 50% more than the travel expenses of the entire government, with all the deputies and assistants it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9255	It's the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9256	You'll allow me something, I've got a piece of paper that will interest all citizens of Serbia, and I'm sure all the MPs will. I received a report, just arrived in my envelope regarding a car procurement tender for the needs of republican authorities and organizations by certain users. Here it is true, said Mr Dinkic, we have lower-class cars, and these are from 1,200 to 1,400 cubics, mid-class cars of 1,400, so they are classified, from 1,400 to 1,900 cubics. So, the highest of those lower-class – 117, 18 pieces of this middle class, and then these higher middle-class ones, which are passenger vehicles for the Ministry of Agriculture, is higher than the average of 1900 to 2000 cubic diesel, they are usually worth between 20,000 and 30,000 euros. Now look what's coming. Party 4, passenger vehicles of 2-3000 cubic metres, gasoline and diesel 43 cars, 5 vehicles for the purposes of the service of the President of the Republic. So far, there has been little chance, but now it takes five new vehicles of the highest class, and then two other vehicles, ladies and gentlemen, for the needs of the People's Office of the President of the Republic. That's what we've heard he's going to finance himself, and he's going to open it up in the interest of the citizens, and now the citizens need to pay for that luxury car. They're not driving south around Belgrade, they're supposed to buy 3,000ccs of cars. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Is that what your government buys? Seven vehicles, and he's asking for another five, according to the information I just received. There are seven cars now new, past the most expensive armored BMW, and he's asking for another 5, tender over. He's going to the party with him today, and interestingly, on the people's expense. Do you also pay those services by contract, Mr. Dinkich, so wasteful. He's not protected by the police. He's protected by the military. Do you know that, Mr. Dinkick, or pretend you don't? Who's paying for it, Mr. Dinkich? Is it through the coat of arms of the people of Serbia, Serbian citizens? Look, the president's office gets the same number of vehicles as the entire National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He's one in front of 250 people here. There's more. It's not like there's not much for the ministry. It's for five, for the Ministry of Capital Investment, you should have known Mr. Minister, one for the needs of the Ministry of Economy. Is that for Mr. Bubal? I knew you needed a good car, but the people don't have that kind of money, Mr. Bubalo. Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, that's what we have to save for, but I won't allow it, and I said that at the meeting of the heads of parliament, since Mr Nikolic is away, and I replaced him. I said -- I won't let moral sermons hold those who don't hold on to morals, who when they think about morality tell someone they should go to church. I want to tell you something-- cut this down, Mr. Minister, cut this, fuck this, because if you had told the people this, because you told people and citizens this, if you had spent money on this, the people would have come with sticks in front of the National Assembly. And none of Serbia's citizens will mind when you say it - there's no car. Let's ride around as they've been driving by now. This is not the first president in Serbia. These aren't the first people's MPs either. It's not the first government in Serbia either, but where that humming and grampity is the most pronounced, it's where you stop it and stop it. And we will publicly and clearly tell them what they intended and what they wanted, and we will come up with documentation. We're gonna get to the file because we've had enough -- we're saints, we're good, and some others aren't good there. Now we're going to make a white book about thieving.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9257	Mr. Wolfie, please, you've been over it for almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9258	Thank you, Mr. Mihajlovic, you are very patient, but I am sure that the citizens of Serbia wanted to hear this information, wanted to hear who they are who are working in their interest, who are those who are always talking about how much they care about Serbian citizens, and what they care about most is their luxury, is that only they will live incomparably better, is how they will have more. Well, it's time for things to turn around. Our goal must be that the people have more, so let them have less if they need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9259	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic. Let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9260	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, I would like to pray for a little quieter atmosphere for this most significant document that will certainly mark the work of the Republic Government during 2005, and mark the gods and our lives in the greatest part, especially the lives of our citizens. Of course it takes saving, but since I've been listening to replicas and this controversy between MPs, it's not hard for me to tell one truth, which is -- the most expensive politicians are when they're driven around the world by businessmen and businessmen. Remember how politicians, even after October 5th, boasted that this country was not costing anything because they were driven around the world by some business people. And how they managed to save huge budget money, not by telling a secret how much such business people cost the state, because they certainly used certain privileges from that closeness, which still cost us all. So, it is not our goal to bring our leaders and this country, ministers, prime ministers and presidents of the Republic, to drive other people's cars or aircrafts, it is not for the president of the state, nor for the prime minister, to travel to China in the mires, but for them to have one status appropriate for this country and for this people. We can all set aside for that. But, of course, it's worth saving. It must be spared and, of course, it must not behave wastefully. In that sense, this budget is good, the proposal is very good, and it seems to me that one of the reasons for the arrest by DS MPs is precisely a lack of arguments to attack this kind of budget proposal. Even this criticism we hear from the opposition SRS, it seems to me that we have not heard the right argument when it comes to the essence of economic policy for the coming year and the essence of the budget. Because the proposed budget, according to its concept and philosophy, differs greatly from the budget proposed last March and is somewhat similar to the budget rebalance for 2004. All IMF requests have been respected during the fourth revision of the three-year arrangement, which will, in addition, allow for the approval of the fourth tranche of credit, which will allow us to overcome the lack of money in this budget. Also, the share of budget expenditure, measured by the entire 416 billion, and the fiscal deficit, which is somewhere around 12.5 billion, when compared to the gross social product, has been significantly reduced. This allows, taking into account other factors, taking into account our foreign debt, that this year, and I hope that we will have an even better status over the coming years, that our country will get the creditworthiness measured by international financial assessments, e.g. b1, allowing both the state and the population to be in debt at much more favourable interest rates than we had in the previous period. Real budget spending next year, according to this budget, will be around 4.5% higher than budget spending foreseen by the rebalanced budget this year. The fiscal deficit is lower than the rebalanced deficit by about 40%. The income structure of the budget plans to change the structure of income, as revenue from value added tax is expected to increase by 14%, compared to turnover tax revenues, which is certainly a higher amount of around 14%. I would ask the Minister in charge to make sure that all those under VAT regimes are properly used not only by those obligations. to be struck by the obligation, as the law and the state requires, but also to use the benefits of this multi-phase tax, which has been valid for us since 1 January. More revenue from social contributions has also been planned, given all the legal changes we made during September this year. Incomes from privatisation are measured in order of 25 billion. Of course, there is a need for activity not only of the Republic Government, but of the Privatisation Agency, and I would also like to add regional privatisation agents, the head of the district. I know, in my district, gentlemen ministers, it's a bad thing to do. We don't have personnel, they're not good, they're supposed to be changed. To service public debt, which internally is external, funds of 46 billion are planned, which is about 13 billion more than this year. No debt crisis. That's what you should say. That's what the Republic Government should say. Don't be passive, Mr. Minister, don't let such writings in the paper misrepresent your work. Tell us what's coming. Here, the headlines of today's newspaper show a great abuse of the Republic government and, in particular, Minister Dinkic, which allows the London Club to be paid at much higher prices than is allegedly promised, because that is simply not true. Mr. Minister, come out, deny, tell me what's true. This country was in debt in the '70s, in the '80s, this country fell in late. We haven't paid in ten years. The time has come, if we want to be part of the world, we have to pay. And, gentlemen of the Republic Government, tell it clearly to your people. Don't let lying slander your work. We stand behind you whenever you do well. You have an MP's majority for good work, please disprove it, both in your work and in your own words. Some times words are needed, not just work. Furthermore, to address the unemployment problem, which will come as a result of economic restructuring, total funds of seven billion dinars have been planned, as funds for unemployment benefits, for active employment measures, for mini credit lines through the Development Fund, for severances through the Ministry of Labour. Of course, transition is difficult, you need to intervene from the budget and this is a good point in the budget. It seems to me that it will help people to cope with the transition crisis more easily. Social security benefits from the budget are planned at 42 billion dinars. Compared to this year, it's an increase of over nine billion dinars. Special emphasis should be placed on the transition fund, which will help people who have difficulty in transition. He's 2.5 times bigger than this year. Subsidies to non-financial corporations were reduced compared to the 2004 budget from 35 billion to 32 billion, with subsidies to agriculture and the railways remaining the same. I must say, in this sector, there is a need for change in management, not only in human terms, but in ways of thinking. A good part of that sector can be a special part of the money, i.e. in an appropriate way, which implies an initiative, quality managers, to replace. I think there's also a major role in this, and I think we need to work on it. For the promotion of exports, one billion are planned, with the fact that it should be added to the fact that VAT is linked, the VAT taxation system itself allows exporters to find greater relief than they have ever been. About a billion dinars have been planned for the Guarantee Fund and the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans. To remind ourselves of the law, which formed the National Housing Corporation, this will allow as many as 60,000 families to enter new apartments next year. I call on Serbian citizens to ask their business banks how they can exercise this right. Of course, it's a big risk, but for the first time this country is thinking domestically, especially about its young people. I think for the first time they have a real chance, not by joining the JUL or any other profiting party to allow themselves some kind of grace or security, but by working for the next 20 or 30 years, they arrive to pay for what they will inherit not only during their lives but also their successors. So the apartments must be the top priority of this government. It's a good thing we passed such a law. It's a good thing this budget provides a way to foster young people above all. Transfers for the state union were planned with 49.6 billion dinars, up from 2004 to 4.86%. We all have our pledge to survive something that has to survive. It's one of the conditions for us to enter Europe. I think it's a good thing that Serbia is still trying to maintain something it considers a natural alliance. If that doesn't work, of course, sin will be on the opposite side, but I think it's going to cost the other side a lot more, I mean the Montenegrin side, than we do here in Serbia. But since it's one of the conditions for us to enter Europe, I think we need to be responsible for taking care of ourselves. For agriculture and agriculture, around 20 billion dinars are provided for, 11 billion dinars of subsidies, 3.5 billion loans for agriculture, while the Water Directorate provides for about three billion dinars. For the roads this year, we had a sum that wasn't enough to resuscitate all the roads. Next year I think it's a good definition in this budget, we'll make it possible to do a lot more work on the travel network. For roads alone, budget and toll revenues are planned, a total of 27.5 billion dinars. I think this is the biggest investment, and I think it's going to run not only by those who make roads, but also by the surrounding industries, and it's a good act of this government. We expect a good deal of income from value added tax. We think the government has to do everything in its power to direct economic operators. The brochures have already come out. I think the ministry should still work on this, so that everyone is sent to the VAT as of January 1st. On the other hand, there is one problem, and these are transfers intended for local self-government. I expect the ministry to be even according to all local self-governments, in line with needs and requirements. I hope we are expected very quickly by instructions that transfers will be made to local self-government. I want to point out that this is about a very important document. Once again, I should like to express regret that this parliament is working in incomplete composition. No MPs from the Democratic Party, no argument from them. I think they were scared because they had no real criticism, no real argument, but let the people of Serbia know, the Democratic Party is partying to the most important law passed in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9261	Thank you. The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Darko Glisic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9262	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will speak very specifically of the budget. It's about division 42. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to take a look at it if you have a bill in front of you. That's chapter 14 and 15 in this section. It is about the funds that are required from the budget to be transferred to the Borska and Zaječar County. Namely, there are no two similar districts in Serbia than Borski and Zajecarski. Both districts are about the same area; they have the same population; they have a similar economic structure; they are neighborhoods. Both districts are borderline, and the difference in the budget is twice as large, i.e. twice as much of the budget's funding is received by the Zaječar County from Borski, the draft of this law. I think it's illogical. I'm surprised there are at least three MPs from the Borski District who belong to the parliamentary majority who have not responded to this. I'm responding on behalf of the opposition MPs, two of whom are from the Borski District. Thinking these days, I think there are only two reasons why this is like this. The first reason is, I don't want to believe in him, is that you made this budget by sending your budget users their projections how much money they needed. At least that's how it used to work. Then you say a lot to them, here's half. The Začar County asked for 12 million, and you gave him six million, and he's satisfied with it, and the Borski district took really six, and you gave him three, and that's not gonna be enough. Since you said yesterday that no one has the right to criticise the government, that there is no concept and no vision, since yesterday she has it, so this reason is out. The second reason, Mr. Minister, is that the whole public in the Republic of Serbia knows that you are not in very good relations with the Minister for Capital Investments, Mr. Velimir Ilic. Namely, the head of the Borski District belongs to the party of Mr. Velimir Ilic, and then there is your intention to deprive the Borsko County of funds, while in Zaječar County the head of the DSS. I still have a problem with this budget, especially when it comes to energy subsidies, and it concerns the mining sector. Here in my day, when it was the Energy Act, I presented a document called "Bilance of the Serbian Energy Termidor". You remove the subsidies for exploitation, it is thought of underground coal exploitation, and you will see that you will bring Serbia into a position that all forests will soon be cut down. In fact, the state has to take care of subsidizing that part of the production, because it's our only energy. I object to the fact that there is very little resources in relation to others here designated by the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to answer me this, why the Borski District, and quite similar to Zajecar County, has twice the budget. I would like you to respond to what effects the government regulation has given to reduce, when importing vehicles is concerned, the age limit to three years, and if it has not given effect, when that regulation will be abolished. There's a reason for her to be abolished. I would also, since a large number of people ask me, you said three months ago that long-term agricultural production loans would start, they didn't start after three months, and you said they'd start in 15 days, to say if they will and when they will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9263	The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have very little time left, given that the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group has mostly been spent on discussions that have really clearly and unequivocally made it clear that this budget is neither developmental nor social. However, in some items he is a developmental one, I would say even extremely developmental, and especially in those items that predict the cost of the President of the Republic, and since his activities in the previous six months are mostly reduced to going to the game, you should have told him that next year the European basketball championship in Belgrade is not so much travel money, that everything he promised in the pre-election campaign, and what he lied about in the first six months of his activities as President of the Republic, he doesn't have to spend now either at the Olympics or at the World Cup. We have a championship with us, and we don't have to spend so much. It is possible that so much funding for the President of the Republic as a fan at many games is approximately what his function looks like. Partizan ran last night until he entered the hall and won RealMadrid as soon as he entered. So did our football players, basketball players, water polo players at the Olympics. Maybe he needs this kind of money to buy MPs. He can't buy MPs any more individually. Maybe he'd like to buy a group. He went one by one, and maybe he'd like five by five, like he used to do, to get the artificial majority back. We have a Rules of Procedure in his time, which, just in a minute, makes it impossible for me to speak further, which brings the MPs into an unequal position. So, the Rules of Procedure are the same, just to get the Democrats back in the old way to power in this parliament. You give him money, you give him the means to make something like that happen. Perhaps it would be wise to focus these resources on banning him from going to these sports events, since he really has reduced his function to something like that. You give him the security of the funds you've allocated. I don't know how the press is going to baptize his advisors and those people who work at his place, and if the advisors have 60,000 dinars, and we're MPs 30 to 40,000, and if we're unsharp cattle and all kinds of things, then I don't know what his advisors have twice as much pay. And he comes, Minister, you buy them some angry cars, I don't know what they're called, and I don't know when it's made up. It's more like a spaceship than some cars. You, ministers, have built your political rating in time on this by criticising the Democratic Party for stealing and stealing from this parliament. You've received so many MPs only on that criticism. You now, by your actions, by giving up to the Democratic Party, wipe yourself off the political map and it is not as bad as it is that you increase the Democratic Party and their rating. There were more words here about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Coordination Centre, etc. It is true that these are very responsible places, it is true that these are very responsible functions, but they are led by irresponsible people, and they need funds to invest in diplomacy, they need funds for diplomatic and consular representations, for the ministry, they need to be invested there, but indeed the people who run them don't deserve a single dinar. I am convinced that after the next elections, they will get what they have from the people, which is no representative in this parliament, and thus less damage to the budget and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly a better future for all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9265	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word has a finance minister, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for the words of support for the budget of those MPs who supported it. I must say, I am disappointed in the level of discussion of the opposition MPs, because there is simply no criticism of the budget. You used populism, which you're entitled to, of course, you're politicians. However, I expected here a debate on the budget, an economic debate, to see if you are proposing something that could improve Serbia's economic policy, whether you are proposing some measures that could achieve an additional and higher employment growth than we are predicting, if you have any suggestions on how to improve the efficiency in the allocation of agricultural credits that we share, whether you suggest that they increase further and in what way, from which sources, in order for you to do so, social contributions that we have increased 10 billion dinars. This is how I really see that, and it makes me proud, there are actually no serious remarks to the budget, not even from the opposition, because these questions you've asked are really minor and it's very easy to answer. I listened patiently, I didn't want to answer the word when you spoke. I'll just say some answers to the questions you've been asking. This last question is really banal, the relationship between Borski and Zajcharska County. Simply, this year in the budget, before the government was formed, Zaječar County had more resources, because it has more inspection services than the Borski District. The exact same proportion was kept in the 2005 budget, with you reading the figure relating to the own funds that are being realised. Simply, Zajčar County is making its own income 1,025,000, and the Borski district around 500,000, and there is the difference. Otherwise, the relationship between Zajecarski and Borski County is 4.8 million to 3.2 million, not six to three. They simply have more inspection services and it's possible that it's a more developed end. In any case, this proportion goes back years. We haven't changed anything, nor would we change anything, because when we make a budget, we don't run ourselves in some kind of political attitude. The budget is made for Serbian citizens and exclusively objective economic criteria are used. Also, I think there were a lot of untapped words here for a pay phone at the expense of the president of Serbia. You know he's not from our party, but as finance minister, I have to say that the president of our country was elected directly, directly in the elections, 1,700,000 citizens gave him a vote and indeed he is a demagogy now to attack why funds are being allocated to the President of the Republic. Is it better that this country doesn't have a president like it didn't? It is a demagogy and I will say it regardless of what I think is wrong to buy MPs in the Assembly, but you have to look at it realistically. If you are in favour of reality, the reality is that we did not have in the first seven months of expenditure on the financing of the Serbian presidency, for the simple reason we did not have the president and those services did not work full capacity. Now that the president has been elected in late June and early July, of course the costs have increased. Economically, it is not right to compare the 2005 base compared to 2004, since in 2004, it contains only five months of full work by the Presidency of the Republic. Also, when you talk about this car tender, first, it's a public competition. What you're talking about is published in the Official Messenger. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to hide. This report was delivered to all MPs, so you, too, Mr. Wolf, could receive it and you went out to read it. If anything were hidden, it would simply not be available to you or to the public. Of course we have no intention of hiding anything. We think that if the Serbian Parliament already gets seven cars, including your MP's club, Mr. Vukic, I don't see the difference why the president of the state wouldn't restore the fleet. So seven vehicles for the needs of the National Assembly, including the heads of Parliament. Well, you're not the boss, then it's for Mr. Nikolic, I guess. Anyway, let's not use that demagogue. So you know how much cost there is in this country that can be reduced? These are minor things. If we come to whether the president of the parliamentary club, whether the minister, whether the president of the state, has a proper official car or not, it's not their car, it's a car that will be driven by some next minister, some next head of the parliamentary club and some next president of the state. You received information that this train park, owned by the government, was from 1994-1995. That same fleet is now being used by this government. You've received information that the ministers will not use these vehicles. You see for yourself, when you get a detailed report, that the largest number of cars is lower and middle category. It's not bought for someone, it's bought for a function that's being performed, and tomorrow it's going to use some other person, quite certainly, because citizens always choose others and that's normal. It's a good thing the political scene is being cleaned up and it's a good thing that the political scene is going in that direction that always new ones are being chosen and they get a chance to do something, and then one day they're drawing a line, and exactly what you've done in the 1990s, what the previous government has done since 2000-2003, and what this government is going to do in 2004 and until the end of its term. There will be opportunities for new governments, these cars will benefit those chosen by the people, and he says, let's not now because of seven vehicles in the presidency, for the professional services of the President of the Republic, to make a question out of it, because seven vehicles are also received by the National Assembly. I wouldn't ask about that. Of course, you have this political right, but it certainly is not a key issue of the budget, because no additional funds have been used for these purposes. As far as other matters are concerned, no one has asked a question about the key points of economic policy. I have to say, I'm very happy about it. No one has disputed the necessity of us going further into tax evasion, to speed up the restructuring of businesses and businesses and to cut costs in public enterprises. There, Mr. Vukic, needs to cut costs, in public enterprises, where natural monopoly allows these companies to have high profits. There's a need to reduce the number of people in the government. Some MPs have noticed that by three thousand and a slightly increased number of government employees. I don't want to deal with demagogy and say that the government can stay with the same number of people as it does today. I have spoken openly and I repeat that next year we are going to cut down the number of people in the state administration, because we want only those who do good work to have even bigger salaries. There will be no demagogy. For this speaker, I can announce to all Serbian citizens that I will personally suggest that the Serbian prime minister has a salary of 95,000, that the ministers have 90, that deputies have 80,000 dinars, the chiefs of 60,000, and that a pyramid of people who can serve the state can be made and that they do their jobs effectively. I hope that this congregation will also allow MPs to have adequate salaries. You don't have to be ashamed of the proper pay. No need to overdo it, it's a fact, you should only be ashamed if you're doing bad work. As finance minister, I have nothing to be ashamed of, and I will always speak freely of everything. What is demagogy is I will call demagogy, and what is justified criticism I will accept, but what has to be done, as much as anyone likes it or not, I will always tell the citizens that it is necessary to do it. It is also necessary to introduce order in the Yugoslav Army. I know some politicians want to court the army, they know it's a large electoral body, but I can say it's not normal for 40% of civilians in the military. It's nowhere in the world. I have to announce that we're going to cut down on the number of civilians in the army. That's what I'm saying right now. If others won't say, I'll say -- we need to reduce the number of civilians in the military, make the army more efficient and make more money to buy weapons and equipment, because the equipment defends our country, not defends those civilians who, by the way, have jobs in other places. Of course, those irreplaceable engineers, technicians and others should stay. Of course, there are other places where the budget can be reduced. Today I criticized some people at the government's session, why this about cars was not announced in advance, why, when the competition was announced, they did not immediately say what it was, with which intention, how much money would be spent, because it was spent by the Government of Joint Affairs, which does not serve the government. It's not the government that gets these cars, gets the districts, gets the courts, gets the National Assembly, gets the president of the Republic, gets the inspections, gets the most inspections. It's really not a shame to make it public, especially since 80% of the car is in the lower category. I resented the services for not publishing this on their own, but waiting for the newspaper to publish and the real name to be made out of it, as one of the DSS MPs noticed, and today a newspaper announced that 62% would be paid to the London Club, and we could get a bigger write-off. Indeed, if we haven't talked a hundred times about the state getting a 62% write-off and it's one of the biggest writings in the history of the London Club, of course, the media can be wrong, and we're going to have to keep and boring things to repeat. Many have underestimated this government, many have underestimated our tenacity. You'll see next year, many underestimate our courage. We will realise this economic policy, although I believe that none of you from the opposition should have half of this programme realised, because it is afraid that you might lose 1% of the electoral body and you don't care what happens to the next generations. We're gonna do this because this is good for the country. This budget will remain remembered in the annals as one of the most realistic budgets adopted and, I'm sure, one of the bravest budgets we will achieve. Thank you very much for your attention, and I hope you will support the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9267	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am disappointed in the discussion of Minister Dinkic. I expected him to speak professionally, not demagoguely and politically, as he learned to speak. He yelled at us, I guess, in lack of arguments. You don't have to yell, we hear you well, Mr. Dinkic. We haven't feared you before, we're not afraid of you today. What's your problem, Mr. Dinkic, is the fact that you didn't want to answer any questions. We asked you questions: why there are no public investment works; what does spending money on the Commission for Illustration mean to you; what do specialised services at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to you; whether our budget is 416.5 billion or 473 billion, as you show here in the budget; why is the deficit of this budget regulated by new loans and new borrowings, rather than covering from real sources? Why not avoid funding individual positions, especially specialised services, so that it goes from the resources of its own bodies, but must go further from the budget. Why is it given to so many pointless agencies, commissions and offices? Mr. Dinkich, let me now move on to what you were saying. You started yelling at us here, saying a million and seven hundred thousand people voted for the president, so it's better if we don't have one. Who told you that? What are you talking about? A million and seven hundred thousand people, who voted for Mr Tadic, as well as a million and four hundred fifty thousand who voted for Mr Nikolic, wanted an honest state, wanted new jobs, wanted bigger salaries, wanted bigger pensions, and that was what Boris Tadic told them. Where's any of that? None of it has anything to do with it. You say nothing, seven vehicles. Excuse me, honourable MPs, I was wrong to read the information that you did not receive and it was invented by Mr Dinkic, only I got, not seven, but eight vehicles in the Presidency of the Republic, and none of them are lower classes, none of them middle-class, all of them high-class, top-class. I mean cars. From where the money comes from, from the citizens of Serbia, Mr Dinkic, it's no demagogy, it's a thief, Mr Dinkic, and that's what you and I are different about, because it's a thief. You say, you're talking about development projects, everything that the budget does us good, and in the end of the budget, you promise us only that they're going to cancel the government's workers, so they're going to cancel out on public workers, so they're going to cancel some thirds, and you're going to be bravely fired. When you are brave enough to go to new jobs, and the only thing that will not be cut, but raised, will be paid by the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, ministers, deputies, ministerial assistants. Mr. Minister, raise your salary to the workers, increase your income to the peasants, secure new jobs, and then say how much pay it takes to raise you and anyone, and I won't mind. I'm not jealous, so let's let everyone who's in power live decently, have a ride in a better car. What makes eight most-class cars in the presidency, the new ones, not to throw away the ones that exist so far, will neither be this most expensive blinded BMW, worth more than half a million euros, Mr Dinkic. Tell me what the new eight high-class cars are going to do, while you're talking about it. You say it's not for ministers, it is for ministers, and you made it up. It's not for everyone, but for some ministers, it's five cars, and it's not 80% lower class, but 52.4% cars are lower class, Mr. Dinkic. So much for talking numbers and facts. You can say what you want. I wanted to tell you that your budget is technically better balanced than your previous budgets, but you've disappointed me with your discussion. You've forgotten, you're feeling very powerful, and I'm pointing to only one thing. You're making a lot of big plans, and I'm afraid you'll be making plans from the opposition for next year, and that's what the people will welcome with great enthusiasm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9269	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9270	You're saying I didn't give you answers to questions, right, I didn't tell you what the real budget was, but I just can't believe that you can't read out of this what the budget is. It is clear that the 416 billion budget is for next year. Your own incomes don't go into the budget, you have travel fees that are your own revenue from the Road Directorate. You have various court fees that are the Ministry's own income in the division of courts and the Ministry of Justice. They do not enter the budget under the Budgetary System Act, however, it is true that we can also observe the consolidated balance of public finances, but then other than our own incomes and own expenditures should be added to the revenues and expenditures of local self-government, and then the entire budget of the state has been consolidated and around 650 billion. So everything depends on the classification we're looking at. As far as the Lustration Commission is concerned, it does not determine the Ministry of Finance or the Government whether it will finance itself or not, as long as there is this law and until it has been put out of force, for anything, not just for this commission, for any commission, it must have some budgetary division under the Budgetary System Act. The moment it's taken here in the Assembly to close it, the funding will stop. As for specialised services at the foreign ministry, it is worth 20 million dinars for three items. First, the protection of cultural goods in Hilandara, secondly, the transfer to the cultural and information centre and thirdly, the financing of the Commission of the state community for co-operation with UNESCO in Paris. So that's the three items you were interested in, that's the answer. Why don't we finance a real-source deficit, but a loan. I just want to let you know, I'm considering that you're a lawyer, you're not an economist, that credit funding is a real-source financing. Loan financing by borrowing on the capital market and privatisation revenue financing is a real-source financing. Funding by printing money, what was done in your day, it's not funding from real resources, when you're in debt on the market of capital from international loans, from donations, by issuing securities of value, it's a real financing of budget deficits and it's not inflationary funding. However, if you are in debt from the National Bank of Serbia, if it prints money to cover the budget hole, as was done in your time, it is funding from unrealistic sources and it produces inflation. Also, you speak to pointless agencies and offices. You know what, this government has put out a large number of agencies, and these offices and agencies may have another one, but I have to say that none of them are tied to my profession so I can judge about it, like the mine action center. I really don't know if it's supposed to exist, but everyone else really has a purpose. There is also the Office for Joining the European Union, some countries also had ministries, someone has to coordinate to join the European Union. The tobacco agency also makes sense. It makes sense for the largest number of these agencies, and of course the government has made an effort to rationalise agencies and offices and of course we will do so in the future. You mentioned an expression I'm just repeating, a thief. You say, car shopping, thieving. Let me tell you, this government has announced a public competition, it's been publicly published in the Official Messenger to call a tender, and some of the governments you've been involved in have been engaged in a thieving activity, because Curtis has been taking cars from the border and then giving to officials, and he hasn't published any tenders. You forgot about those times. You say it's a big deficit, and you know it's twice as small. Someone said we were a wastelander. How can we be wasteful if we've reduced the expenditure by a third this year and now we're going 38% lower? Of course, I'll tell you, with an extremely calm tone, as you know, Mr. Wolfie, I must tell you, you've never had the same deficit. And do you know why? Because you've never shown your expenses transparently. Never, no government has published a public funding bulletin until this point. We always knew what revenue was and only for those you wanted to tell us. You didn't report customs revenues, which were charged in cash, you didn't report a bag of cash that was being charged in cash, and then something was being financed, or the citizens knew what was being charged, or what was being financed. Of course, time has changed. These are modern public finances, I point out once again, I'm proud of this budget. The government is proud of this budget and time will show the quality of this budget, no matter what you say today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9271	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the way, to say that in my first presentation, I forgot to mention it. Mr Dinkic falsely accused our MP group of using official vehicles. Never in this or in the previous term, Mr Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic have used official vehicles. They didn't even look for it, and we didn't need it, and I don't know why you were getting it. At this time, since 1998, it has not been, Mr Dinkic. You're talking about sacks of money, you're talking about Mr. Curtis. Are you criticizing your coalition partners, Mr. Dinkic? They shouldn't give you support. Think about it, I've never seen a bag of money in my life, but Mr. Dinkic, I'm one of the people who knows geography well. I'm ready to check it out in every place, I've never known exactly the coordinates of the Marshall Islands in my life, until we met you and your party. That's when we found out that some people know and how they're going to start accounts on both the Seashele Islands and the Marshall Islands, because they're so much smarter, they don't need a bag of money, and with sacks of money, you can't even arrest them, and you can't hold them in jail. You have our support. All those who carried a bag of steam, put them in jail, but Mr Dinkic, both for Marshall and the Seasel Islands, the time will come for those responsible to come to justice. That's what you need to keep in mind. That's the difference between you and me. You have truly disappointed me with your discussion, disrespecting the opposition's MPs. Maybe your goal was to get us out of this room. We are not going to do that, not because we are pleased to discuss the amendments we will not miss, and we will have to ask you who will drive 8 new luxury cars in the Serbian presidency. Who, Mr. Dinkich? It's the money of Serbian citizens and it's not demagogy. Tell us, I don't even know those eight advisors if they're there. Everyone has to drive a luxury car, with all the blinded BMWs. That, Mr. Dinkich, is much worse than demagogy. In the end, I'm pleased that every time you go out, you want to say something against the SRS. I don't mind, because every time I make sure you have absolutely nothing to tell us. Em, you're giving us objections that don't concern us, some arrows you send over, which have nothing to do with us, because I know you don't have anything else to say to us. If you had a long time ago, you'd behave differently. This, Mr Dinkic, I want you, not because of you and your political party, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to be much better than you predicted in this budget, what's good to do, because that's what I want for the people and the citizens of Serbia. But, Mr Dinkic, be sure, if what we predict happens, that Serbia will live more and more difficult, that Serbian citizens will have less and less money, less work, that they will barely make ends meet. Then we will talk again in the National Assembly, I hope, in the same way democratically, peacefully, but be sure that you will not represent the majority, but a convincing minority, and hopefully, Mr Dinkic, that you will not look at parliament on the postcard, and as it goes, it is not impossible either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9273	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9274	Okay, in a variety of bickerings, we'll meet here somewhere on target by the way as collateral damage. For the sake of truth, I'm reminded of a few things. First, when it comes to inflation, we as socialists wear all the time we've lived in both good and bad, and that's why there were elections, and the citizens of Serbia have said what they think, and after all the elections. It wasn't inflation for 100 years. Inflation was one year in 1993, when they imposed sanctions. I remind you only of the sanctions in 1993, and you, as an economist, also know that this is a kind of funding of budgets and social welfare, solving the social situation in such conditions. A new dinar was introduced on January 1, 1994, and the government of the Republic of Serbia's consolidated budget has since been consolidated until the October 2000 changes. On January 1st, it was a brand dinar, and we left 22 dinars in fact for the mark. In three years, this so-called. The DOS government has, in fact, brought from 60 to 80 dinars of the euro. So it's more inflation than the SPS and SRS government in seven years was inflation at the time of the sanctions, when we had the entire international community against us, and you have and you have an entire international community and an open door around the world. That's the policy we're talking about and why we're talking about agencies and directors. We are not against directorates and agencies and we are not against spending in the Serbian presidency. We are opposed to party officials of the DS finding themselves in agencies and in the national office, besides the Commission for Appeals of the Serbian Parliament, because the office only serves to fund the party officials of DS, not to work as president of the Republic of Serbia. We will help him work, but we will not allow DS to finance the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9275	I'm finishing the initial search. Excuse me, MP Ivica Dacic, as head of the parliamentary group, that part you didn't use.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9276	I had no intention of using my other 10 minutes, but since Minister Dinkic explained the budget so well, we are now in a dilemma whether we should vote. If Minister Dinkic or anyone from this government wants to deal with his political opponents, let it be counted against the SPS. As you well know, it is the SPS that supports this minority government. Also, Minister Dinkic was elected with SPS support. I think it's a minimum of correctness that we have at least one politically correct relationship, or that we differ correctly. In all of this, as far as we're concerned, I've already said several times, don't think any of the Socialists are going to defend something that's indefensible, that any of the Socialists are going to talk, at least those who are now left in the SPS, are going to talk about something that objectively could have been better, and we're never going to defend those who did the opposite of the law. Besides, you've been in power since October 5th. So to this day, some with interruptions, some in continuity. You could have arrested all those people you're saying worked illegally. If the highlight of these criminal charges is the famous stove of Hranislav Perić, then I can imagine how adequate, effective the radio judicial system has been and how many criminal charges have been established. As for that, you know very well that it was very difficult for our people and for our country during that period. You know well that there may have been errors in that period, but you also know well that during that period, there have been more successful economic policy parameters than those that are today, such as the foreign trade deficit issue. You know that since 1994, the rate of inflation has been reduced to boundaries that are not very different from those that are today. You also know that from 1994 and 1995 until 2000, the growth rate of the social product was constant. Not to go into the explanation of all this right now is not the point of this debate today. If you want us to discuss it, we can, but I want to ask you how long you're going to deal with it. You are praising Tadic, and you are talking about something that happened in 1993, 1994 and 1995. So, are you gonna arrest some 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 thieves? Or you'll say the thief's gone. You said there were them. You're talking about Tadic in superlatives. I don't mind. You voted for him. I certainly didn't. Otherwise, if it hadn't been for the SRS and DS, Tadic would not have been elected, as he had not crossed the electoral censorship, and by changing the law to elect the president of the Republic, he was allowed to become president of Serbia, although most Serbian citizens did not go to the polls. On the other hand, you're saying it's better to have any president than if Serbia didn't have a president. Serbia today has a president trusted by 800 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Djokovic is 801. Serbia today has a president not provided by the MUP but by Serbia-Montenegro's military. Serbia today has a president who thinks he is above the state and the people and who thinks he has a historical role, who believes that nations and states should listen to him instead of the other way around. Serbia today has a president who does everything to get in touch with those in Berlin or Pristina. And if you want me to be completely honest, I'm not so sure if it's better if Serbia has or if it doesn't have a president. Such a president as he has, Serbia only has damage from him, but that is already your political issue, because you supported his choice. But don't defend the privileges of the President of the Republic. He formed the National Office, where he has 30 employees. By what law is it formed, in what law does it exist? Where is that defined? She's not even in the Constitution. I would remind Minister Dinkic - not his role to defend the president of the Republic. This President of the Republic wants this government down. This President of the Republic takes your MPs, and you praise him. Something's wrong with you. As far as you're concerned, you're working on your damage, I'm certainly not going to work on our damage or on the damage to the SPS, or on the damage to our national and state interests. In every respect, the question of the Serbian president is not whether or not we support someone here. It is not the role of parliament to support the government or to support the President of the Republic. The role of these authorities is by system of sharing the role of mutual control. I'll do anything to make the president of the Republic fall. Just like the opposition will do anything to bring down the Republic government. But that doesn't mean that we should be fighting wars with each other and, of course, we're working against national and state interests. As president of Serbia, he violated a political agreement between the parties and urged Serbs from Kosovo to go to the polls. No one from Kosovo listened to him. Only those in Pristina, Rugova and Haradinaj were looking forward to it, and now we are expressing a protest that this war criminal, Haradinaj, will be president of the so-called war criminal. The governments of Kosovo, in which Serbs, or in whose parliament Serbs, should participate and give him legitimacy. So I don't want to argue with Minister Dinkic about whether or not it was better. I don't want to compete with them when they were bigger or smaller thieves. Thieves aren't party-marked. The task of the police is to arrest all thieves. But those thieves who were painted yellow weren't arrested. Don't defend them. You're talking about some accounts. Why don't you publish those final accounts? Audit, all right. What about the 2001 budget, the final bill? You, Minister Dinkic, said Djelic spent money on privatisation to buy social peace before the December 2003 elections. You're talking about Dusan Mihajlovic, that the budget inspection found that he was unintendedly using funds. Batic was talked about, and Batic is now filing criminal charges against Vojislav Kostunica. So, what kind of authority are you? It's not your role to protect the previous government, no matter how much you cooperated with them and to take down the SPS together. Your role is to protect this people and the state, which means that the SPS has no reason to fear any truth, and that is why we are insisting that all these processes be brought to an end. What our ministers, assistants, deputies are accused of is so-called. Unintentional use of funds, spending of funds, which Djelic after, of course, turned the new law into a violation. They didn't spend those who gave the workers the C Market bonuses, the ones who paid off the families of the dead soldiers and police officers' families, saying they had purposelessly spent the funds. Which is a thief from the former regime, and the one at the time and the last and the present, arrested because he's a thief. None, because thieves make the best deals and they're not in jail. So please, we will ask that all these things be seen and the work of public enterprises, because why don't we choose the director of the oil industry of Serbia in parliament here. How long will the government choose him? Why has no NIS director been elected to parliament since 2000? Why? Because you can't bring it to parliament, because you want it elected by the Serbian government. Let's talk about the work of public enterprises, the tenders that are being explored... (President: Mr. Dacic, time. Let's talk about all these other questions. So if you want to discuss this, I think we've had enough time to discuss it. As for us, we support the government led by Vojislav Kostunica, but these discussions of course do not contribute to our mutually good relations and I ask Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to talk about the specific problems in which Serbia is and what we should do to make people live better in Serbia. Let's not go back in time. We were voted in September and December 2000. About Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic and Tadic were voted in December of last year. And this government will be voted upon when the time comes. So let's do everything we can to make sure that those who depend on the work of this government have some benefits, and you can do each other's fighting, but please don't touch the SPS. Because we can't stay silent when someone mentions the SPS in what you know has nothing to do with the topic they're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9277	Thank you. Here you go. Mr. Albianic, on what basis are you looking for a word? You didn't use the other part? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9278	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. G17 plus really believes it is necessary that we calm down our emotional charges and talk rationally about the 2005 budget. What we had a chance to hear in the debate is that we had no fundamental remarks on the 2005 budget proposal. I just want to point out, in terms of attitude G17 plus and the core conclusion, which is that this budget guarantees, firstly, a solid dinar, with an inflation of 9%. Secondly, since international debt has been reduced, so the total mass is smaller, the state will service debts neatly and will not make new ones. Third, wages will be increased by inflation levels, and for education they will be 30% higher. Each year, the government is considering priorities in the budget, this year health care, future education, next year in the budget. Fourthly, of course, it must be taken into account the savings and control of budgets and in this respect the reform of the state administration. The administration must be cheaper, more efficient, at the service of all Serbian citizens. Fifth, public enterprises must be restructured. Clearly, those who make losses or parts that make losses must make changes in themselves. It is clear that we all want these companies, which provide services or sell services to Serbian citizens, to work for the benefit of the citizens themselves. The sixth, as far as agriculture is concerned, a clear message has been sent this year to agricultural producers, register and you will only benefit from the registration. This benefit this year was in terms of short- and long-term loans, and next year there will be greater savings on long-term loans, as there have been fewer these years. Oil tax is lifted and the price for farmers is 17.00 dinars lower. Seven, roads -- it's clear to all of us in this country that we want to rebuild these paths as they are and try to build some new ones. Eight, it is clear that the funds for the Co-ordination Centre and Kosovo and Metohija are not enough, but this is an appeal for all the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- we all have to take care of the people down there, meaning for the elemental life that needs to survive, let alone for what else. Finally, what is important and what is often pointed out by G17 plus is a line and a path to Europe. It's clear that we are making Europe here, that we are regulating laws in the Assembly, here. It is clear that what we do together here and about the basic state principles agree with one another, differences are normal, but the path we travel is the path to the European Union. And last time in the debate, I pointed out -- our roots have always been in Europe. I don't need to move anywhere. We need our country and our society to take care of it. Tax systems have to be consistent with their environment anyway if we're going to cooperate with them, to get the investments here, because they're looking for the security they have in their own countries. The G17 plus calls on other political parties to vote peacefully and coldly on the budget, as the budget is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. The budget is such that there are no fundamental remarks on it. If that's the case, then he's the best at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9279	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the amendment debate to Article 1, I'm taking a 20-minute break. [[After breaks – 20,05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9281	Ladies and gentlemen, I have three amendments, but it is essentially an amendment relating to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund of agricultural producers or farmers, however you wish. It's known that he's late with 22 pensions, although it says 20.5 pensions. Of course, since my intention wasn't to look for revenue sources, then I suggested an increase in budgets, although in principle I wouldn't agree if I wasn't in charge of finding out where the sources of revenue came from. When I was forced not to take off another, then I suggested an increase, and when I'm proposing an increase, then I have to say where I think there should be an increase. Today's meeting of the Management Board of the ZTP has asked me to actually explain why I'm looking for an increase, or withdrawing, however you want, forced me to look for a source in increasing revenues from the dividend of public enterprises, since you're going to ask me where the budget increases come from. Of course, if you own capital, then I guess you should manage these companies where you own capital, whether you're private or state-owned, then you should manage and see where you're going to invest and how much of it the state will have. It makes sense that the state has some profit. I heard in a conversation with the minister, that it wouldn't have been if I hadn't been informed, because I asked for that question answer, that one number of companies this year were taken dividends, but I don't think that a real dividend can be taken and managed by public enterprises if it seems the way it's managed now. At today's meeting of the Management Board of the ZTP, it was agreed that the government not to elect members of the Management Board in 14 independent companies, but to elect the Management Board from representatives of unions and representatives of business management. Now I ask how and when will the ZTP function successfully and that the government manages if in these 14 boards members are elected by the union, and it is self-government. I was, of course, a communist and I like to return that time, but I just can't do two systems. Can't self-management and can't market economy. This is how you choose boards of directors in public companies in ZTP, in PTT, it's purely self-government and I ask you to define whether you want self-management and then give public companies to trade unions, or you want a market economy, where the government will manage its public enterprises and secure dividends. If you run public enterprises as a government, as a capital owner, I'm convinced that these three billion, as far as I'm asking for an increase because of the next item, which we'll explain later, is not a problem, and that I can secure those three billion out of it. If that's small and it's not enough, I think some of the resources can come from this people's office, I explained that a while ago, to remove that people's office, it didn't even exist, to remove the officials of the Democratic Party who are receiving money on the burden of budgets in agencies, because they've also been hired there, and to provide money for peasants. They fed us and it's realistic to cut back on income for peasant pensions. It's 22 months now, and I don't think it can be abolished, down from 22 to zero, but it could be a year and a half at the end of 2005, more specifically, that 2005 was 18 months behind. I should say right away, the story of the final accounts, that the revision should be carried out, doesn't apply to 2001, because that law was passed in 2002, in February, and he doesn't have a retroactive fact, and I'm asking this assembly to get a final final bill for 2001, let's see where the 4.7 billion money from the budget went missing, because as far as I'm informed, you don't even know where that 4.7 billion is, let alone in the Assembly. It's an important fact. If we look at it, then it won't be a problem for us to ensure that these funds increase this budget without burdening the citizens, and to solve the peasants and reduce the backlog for the payment of peasant pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9282	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to help my colleague, Zoran Angelkovic, find the resources necessary for this amendment to be accepted. I suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia find the formula to recover the illegally paid funds to the Democratic Party Vice-President, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, who was given to him as a consultant at the Federal Interior Ministry when it ceased to be 36 salaries one day in gross amount, and the next morning a work book was waiting for him in the SDPR, also to the federal institution, as a security adviser. In these 36 gross salaries, there are about a few percent that what Mr. Zoran Angelkovic has talked about here is directed towards this side, and I would like to say that at least 80 other officials of the Democratic Party are in the same way and contrary to the Law on the conflict of public interest and contrary to many other things are completely illegally sitting on a number of boards today in Serbia, and there are MPs, and there are high officials in the City Assembly, and they are in different other positions, so I am taking the opportunity to inform the public that there are several laws that need to sanction it, of course, if there is a state and if there is someone who has to do so. So, for starters, please find a way to get these funds back to the federal budget, and then from the federal to the republican, and, of course, help the peasants to pay off their pensions as they like.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9284	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may not be the most important fact whether or not this SPS amendment will be accepted, but it's important that from tonight we start to think about how to settle back pensions for farmers, who, as you know, are 20.5. Unfortunately, we as the MPs were not in a position to submit amendments to the fund's income and expenditure proposals or to this pension insurance fund, because if we had, we would probably have arranged the incomes and expenditures of that fund differently. It's a reminder to tell you that 11 billion dinars are the income of the Pension Insurance Fund of Farmers planned for 2005. For 2006, 13 billion and 14 billion for 2007. That's the so-called. Medium-term projections and here are from a few assumptions, which I don't know if they'll be able to achieve at all. The first is that the rate of collection, I underline, will be increased from the current 30% to 50%, that in 2005, this fund will generate its own revenues of around four billion dinars, and that from the budget as transfer funds, above all from the part relating to the privatisation revenues, it will receive another seven billion to cover these expenditures planned in 2005. All of this should be increased in 2006 to 50% of the bill, to increase income to 12 billion dinars, and to reduce absolutely and relatively the participation of the republican budget in the total revenues of the farmer's fund, with only 340,000 farmers being figured as a contributor to the pension and disability insurance of farmers at the moment. It is understood that in such a small number of taxpayers, i.e. insurance workers, we cannot, firstly, expect higher pensions for farmers, and secondly, we expect that we will be able to settle the remaining 20.5 pensions from the incomes of the Farmers' Pension Insurance Fund, nor will we be able to expect an increased rate of collection. So, here, it is proposed to increase revenues by three billion dinars, in that category of mixed and undefined income, from 5,300,000 to 8,300,000, to increase the amount of the pension fund of farmers in 2005, to cover six unpaid agricultural pensions. At the very end, it is possible for us, for some reasons, to not, as the majority of the assembly or ministry, accept this amendment, but there must be one obligation for both the ministries and the government to, on the basis of more revenue achieved from privatisation, expected by the first budget rebalancing, thus increasing the paragraph for the reconciliation of obligations towards farmers on the basis of outstanding pensions. It would be a constructive approach by the Socialists to this subject, and I think of all the MPs, who must see that as fast as we go in some things, we can't get to those back payments, or motivate future insurance companies to make any contributions and be pensioners based on agriculture, especially since so far it was the basis for calculating the contributions of the Catastran income. It is proposed by the government, as a measure of facilitating the status of farmers, that in the next two years no income tax is paid, but objectively increases the base that is somewhere around 8000 dinars, so times 22%, how much contributions to pension insurance, which actually creates the obligation of farmers to make more money into that fund. If so, if we think about the future, then the extra funds based on privatisation, in the amount of three billion, we have to put the first rebalancing into that farmer fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9286	Anyone else want a word? Yes, the finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9287	I have to say, this bill has been done precisely. Indeed, if by three billion non-tax revenues would increase, that would be enough to settle six pensions, in fact, to cut the debt to farmers' pensions. However, it is not realistic to expect non-tax revenues to increase by this amount, because we have already included the transfer of some dividend from some public enterprises to the non-tax revenues that we have calculated. What the last speaker said, as you know, is that we expect bigger revenues from the privatisation next year than the ones we've entered to cover the deficit, we expect 25 billion, and for the deficit cover we planned eight, plus seven to pay half the pension. If we really make these revenues or if the value added tax revenues are higher, as we planned, then it is realistic to reduce next year's debt to the farmer's pension fund by a certain amount, but I would ask the Assembly to make a statement in the middle of the year. I think it would be rather careless now to increase our incomes and say that we will achieve them without achieving them. We'd better wait six months, then make that decision. It's in terms of the last debater's speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9288	MP Alexander Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9289	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Dinkic, the honourable MPs, I have reported on this first amendment, and in some ways Mr. Minister responded. So, I totally agree that if there is a potential in some budget rebalancing, the debt to the pensioners is reduced, of course, knowing that this government has already done quite a bit for the peasants, and increased the budget three times, but the inherited situation is rather poor and needs to be fixed. When it comes to any possible budget rebalancing and what might be done, only briefly to identify the position of peasants with the position of workers or people dealing with culture. So neither position is easy. It seems to me that quite unfairly the National Assembly often forgets what all the cultural workers are doing for this country, for its spiritual progress, for its spiritual recovery. Of course, as all segments of society go through transition, so does culture go through transition. It is certainly good that it is the ministry and that Mr. Minister has seen culture in a better way and has increased the budget by 400 million. I hope the Ministry of Culture knows how to distribute that money. I'm also afraid that's not quite enough for what it takes to be done when it comes to culture and that's not enough for what the Ministry should do in the next period, to make a real cultural policy, to solve all the problems that exist in buildings, in the institutions of culture. I have one proposal for the finance minister, which is that some of the funds can only be directed at culture by this potential budget rebalance. I'll explain what's going on. So, the draft budget envisions 35m dinars for next year for the Broadcasting Agency. I will remind you that the Broadcasting Agency will finance itself by charging license fees, i.e. All those who broadcast the program will pay for it. Those 35 million dinars can be paid directly to the Ministry of Culture's account, so that the Ministry of Culture can have that money. I would like to remind you of just one thing, that the European Commission for Reconstruction has foreseen 300,000 euros for the work of the Broadcasting Council, and the Broadcasting Council will be able to function without it. So these funds can go directly to the Ministry of Culture's budget. Just one more thing, although in this draft budget is reduced by 700 million dinars of the RTS budget, which should become a public service, at the moment it is 2.500,000, so since the public service should become as soon as the Radiodifuge Council is elected, and this assembly will do so, so I suggest that money, when the public service starts to work, when the government no longer pays for RTS, that money left over goes directly to the Ministry of Culture and thus we help the culture to be seen better, to enable money for the development of culture, and to do so in that part of the legislation, and accordingly, I suggest that some possible budget rebalancing of all this money is transferred to the account, if possible, of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9290	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9291	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, we have heard more than once from Mr. Minister that part of the budget deficit will be covered by privatisation revenues. I just can't believe my ears when I hear a statement like that comes from a man who's in charge of running financials in our government. Mr. Minister, what happens when we privatize, when we sell everything, and when all the money we get from privatisation, instead of investing them in the development of the economy, we use it to resuscitate the budget deficit that was made the way we saw it. When it came to privatisation, it was said that the funds collected from privatisation would be used on purpose for economic development. I ask these present, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister present, whether the subsidisation of the budget deficit from the money received by privatisation is economic development. Are you looking at economic development only through the budget? If this wasn't sad, it could be funny. That's one thing. The second thing, I called about the amendment, and I want to say that we heard it today, and it said in the press about getting a car park, etc. I think that the Honorable Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable People's Office, founded by him by the Constitution and by law, should have already managed to employ 30, possibly, mostly DS officials, seems to be slowly becoming a catch for DS officials, so that these money can be directed not for the purchase of a rolling stock, but for what was said, where it was proposed by this amendment. If the SPS proposes an amendment, it will then propose a way to implement the amendment in practice. I suggest that, first of all, they don't use privatisation funds for the budget deficit. Please, somebody get out of here and prove that the privatisation funds should be spent on the budget deficit. Please, I'm not an economist, but anyone who understands the economy so much, every host knows that if he sells a piece by piece of property in his house, that he would pay what someone else in his house would buy, that he would subsidize it, so what would be left in the end. And that's what every Serbian peasant, every host knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9292	The word has Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9293	Here's an explanation, there's no privatisation to fund the budget deficit. Privatisation is done to accelerate the structure of the economy and simply to remove social enterprises from subsidies. So privatisation has no primary goal of filling the budget. The primary objective of privatisation is to increase resource management efficiency. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9294	Mr. Krstic, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9295	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, explain to me what logic it is, which means to remove social enterprises from the state budget, we will sell them. What kind of politics is that? Anyone can do that. We have those who can do it. What kind of logic is that? You just said something that I don't think makes sense. I'm sorry, but you said, we're not funding from the privatisation, or we're going to finance to get off the budget. So we're going to sell to take off, so we don't subsidize. Please, do you think anyone serious can believe that it's okay? That's consistent with the basic principles of economics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9296	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposing representative and the Financial Committee did not accept this amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9297	It is a great deal of trouble when it is due to submit an amendment, to increase or reduce expenditure in the budget, because it must meet the elemental requirement, if it increases somewhere, in another position it must reduce. It is a problem, but in order for the proposal to be logical and to discuss it, you need to find a way to balance these two things. This is about an amendment that doesn't mean much financially. It is about 45 million and 725,000 dinars, and they refer to the Department of Environment Protection as part of the Ministry of Science and Environment Protection. You have an environmental service there, and it gets 112 million dinars in this budget to do its work. At the same time, within the framework of the ministry there are so-called Elders of protected natural goods not covered by this appraisal, and there are about 35 in the area of the Republic of Serbia. Their main role is to protect natural goods, such as national parks and natural goods of the type of Stara Planina, Golia, the monastery of Tronoša and Trsic. In 2002 there was also a planned item for those guardians of protected goods of 27 million dinars, and in 2003, I do not know for what reasons, it was attached to the resources of the Department of Protection. Now you have a problem. Even if an item of 112 million dinars is enough, the people of the ministry, or the environmental administration, cannot dispose of these funds for the purposes of the guardians. This would then not be in line with this budget law and could be treated as a non-intentional use of funds for these purposes. In this environmental protection administration, people projected that they needed about 45 million 725 000 to cover 120 supervisors and to ensure the essential protection of these natural goods that this country has, but unfortunately, it does not protect them enough and it does not protect them. The password and monastery of Tronos are famous in history, and there is a Chest of Nine Yugoslavia, a source of very healthy water, and now there are some people who want to build a water factory, hinder access to the monastery, and there is no part of the budget to carry out certain monitoring and protection activities of these guardians, or that nature. So, there is no part of the funds, and then they can't be done, and on the side of that museum in Arandelovac, please, this is a kind of paradox, so he is authorized or in charge of protecting these natural goods called the Tronos and Trsic monasterys in the municipality of Loznica, 250 kilometers away. There is a museum in Loznica, but I do not know why he is not in charge of protecting, but since there is no means, then better for the museum not to protect it, and therefore I have proposed an amendment to increase the funds on that item within Article 1, mixed and undefined incomes, only by 45 million, and in this section relating to the ageings, to establish a specific item of 45 million and 725,000, thereby ensuring the functioning of the protection of these natural goods, in accordance with government regulations, both these and those of the previous ones, which decided to regulate the area. Thank you very much. There's one more moment here, it's possible, even if the amendment isn't accepted, I want to be constructive in this, it's only a good will of the ministry and it's important to co-operate at the level of the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Finance that in the course of the year, understanding the need for this job to be financed, to make a deal between the two ministries, and from the current reserves of budgets that eventually these people who do these jobs are funded, so that we cover it with some rebalancing as an item that happened in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9298	Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9299	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jovan Todorovic has submitted an amendment and I also want to help the government of the Republic of Serbia find the source more easily and balance the income and expenditure side. In 2001 and 2002 The Sports Authority ran a marketing campaign called "Play for Life" and "Play for Life, Drugs Not". That campaign cost 27 million and 800 thousand dinars. The head of the Sports Administration was Mr. Vuksanovic, then the head of the Sports Administration, the nephew of Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic and the president of the City Organisation of the Democratic Centre in Belgrade, and now the senior official of the DS. Both marketing campaigns, the citizens of Serbia will remember what it is, did Mr. Vuksanovic's wife's agency and publicly asked how many times it takes for this pay phone, and this is four times in four years, to say that it happened, to arrest someone, to give them back their money and that they can no longer do public work. For this reason, I now ask all those who have power in this country, who have authority in this country, to call on the public prosecutor, the current minister of education, to whom the Sports Authority belongs, to examine this matter and to say that it is possible for a man in such high office without a tender, so to his family, to transfer 28 million and 700 thousand dinars to his wife, and to pay the citizens of Serbia. That money to return to the budget, to give for this purpose that Joca Todorovic is talking about, and the thieves to be arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9300	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr Dinkic, Minister of Finance, is not currently in the O.R. because he just said this thing, considers himself a financial expert, who has no basis in a healthy economic logic, but it is the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Labus. In one part, I'll address him directly, because this is about loans, Mr. Labus was dealing with it, and that's what I'm asking by the amendment that I filed on behalf of the SRS to erase. When a little more than a month ago on the agenda of the Assembly was a proposed rebalancing and barely voted in the Assembly, with all those tensions by Mr Dinkic, I warned him of the same thing. In fact, there's one thing that's obvious here. That since the 2004 rebalancing, and now with the 2005 proposal, you do not have in this sense a limit to the Budget System Law, you have begun to pool loans and donations. Just over an hour ago, Mr Dinkic said the loan was a real source of funding. You know, the strangler grabs the straw, but it's just amazing that anyone, here's to some farmer the Serbian government owes two years of agricultural retirement, to tell him that a new agrarian project can be entered by borrowing, which is going to take some credit. He should explain it as a host to his family and you convince him it's a real source of funding. Not only do you lend, and you have previously introduced this manner into the DOS government as vice president of the federal government and restored in a certain way debt slavery in our country, and then Mr. Dinkic in such a promotion of credit, which are very unfavourable in the situation where we are in charge as a state of 9.7 billion euros, when for the end of the year we are expected to have an external trade deficit of 7 billion, not only are they unfavourable, but they are economists, your colleagues who do not have a pink forecast as far as Serbia is concerned, because of this projection and because you want through loans and donations to finance a quarter of the 20 billion deficit, but it will cost us dearly every year. When I told you that the current debt is 9.7 billion euros and so much foreign trade deficit, then it is clear to all Serbian citizens how much the debt per capita is, and it is not small. Considering that we have almost no production, that it has been destroyed, that we are not creating any new value, that there is no opening of new jobs, as it has been promoting ourselves as an ambassador to the economy promised by Boris Tadic in the presidential campaign, and when we have in mind that such an unreal budget, with such a deficit, has been designed for 2005 for dissuasive items, primarily the President of the Republic, and then many others who are major consumers of budget items, then how can you justify the fact that you continue to advocate such loans in front of Serbian citizens. If I asked for the word "credit" to be deleted in the amendment, then you must consider it as my good intentions on behalf of the SRS, not to you, because it is a limited and armed term for your government, but for the citizens of Serbia. If the word "credits" is deleted, and you have begun to pool loans and donations in this amount of 5 billion from the last rebalancing, then only donations remain, and if you promise Serbian citizens that there will be donations, then bring them in, and do not continue to lend us through such loans and through such interest, and through such debts that will remain for many future generations. That these donations will not be and that he was right many years ago, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, when he told you and told you that free cheese was only in the mouse hunt, so do you. Each of these loans, which will cost citizens dearly and will not speed up production, will not be the opening of new jobs, but the minister himself told us that there will be layoffs, only Tadic and his men will be well, with 8 cars and all that debauchery he has as president of the Republic, how will you justify it then. When you were in the campaign and you, along with the previous DOS furniture, Mr. Labus, you promised, and the current prime minister who was the bearer of the list, to come to Serbia with DOS to power $6 billion in grants. Where is the help, where are these donations, where are the workers; on the street, over a million unemployed, growing misery and greater poverty. So, if we delete the amendment that I suggested "credit" will leave donations, fight for them, or don't do it like this to cover the budget deficit, because it's going to cost us a lot. Despite the fact that such a luxury fleet of presidents from this deficit and through this budget is being financed, his travel expenses are being financed, and because of my reaction to his exposure last night, I wanted to recommend Minister Dinkic, but I will tell him, however, that the budget inspection is being sent to Andric's wreath, across the street, and that he sees the cost of whose current President of the Republic had travelled to the Russian Federation seven days ago, because in the 2005 budget of the president, you provided 35 million dinars for travel expenses, and he told the entire nation last night that he had gone to the Russian Federation as a private person. I repeat, as a private person, and then he would have to explain, that is, Minister Dinkic, who listened to Boris Tadic, but fortunately did not listen to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, sent a budget inspection to investigate that these poor and tortured people had come to Belgrade, and Tadic waited for them with a gendarme, to seek their rights and to tell him that they would not live in occupation and in such conditions. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9302	National MP Vjerica Radeta, followed by Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9303	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, to delete loans as a way of covering the deficits of this budget, is certainly very involved and meaningful, and certainly neither this nor the other amendments of the SRS parliamentary group were nor should they be a cause for the proposing representative to argue here with the MPs, i.e. that he is trying to argue. It wasn't our intention. Our intention was to amend this budget for 2005, of course fully aware of the importance of the budget law. Why do we think credits can't cover the deficit? We from the SRS think it's completely pointless, unless, of course, the government thought that these cars that are being bought for Boris Tadic would remain hidden through this deficit, but here we are today data and informed the public that eight luxury cars are being purchased for Boris Tadic. We don't think this way can cover the deficit in the budget, and you know it, you DOS, from the time you won power in 2000. You came to power "on the wings" promises of various loans, various donations and did not forget those six billion dollars of non-refundable citizens, which Zoran Djindjic promised in time, and did not forget all the loans you promised and which you took mainly to fill the budget. Of course, citizens of Serbia and the SRS would have nothing against favourable loans, which would improve the situation in the economy, which would revive the economy, and of course we would always vote for such loans, but for loans covered by the budget deficit certainly Serbian radicals will never and can't vote. You know, credit stories are well remembered by Serbian citizens during 2001, when everything was transparent, everything in transition, and then they were loans with a grace period. Of course, many citizens didn't know what that meant - a loan with a grace period. And here's the period of waiting for the loan to come back, and now the citizens of Serbia feel it on their skin. Instead of what the Serbian government promised, instead of what the president of Serbia promised, and these are new jobs, these are higher salaries, higher pensions, you government gentlemen, and you from the ruling majority are offering new loans to Serbian citizens. And everyone in Serbia knows how the government, both this and the previous one, gets loans. Every loan is to meet some new conditions. Every loan is a new one in The Hague. Every loan is some new wish or request from the IMF. That's what Serbian citizens, we're absolutely sure, don't want. That is why members of the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this budget. Among other things, this is one of the reasons why we will not vote for the budget the government has offered, because we in the SRS are in this parliament on behalf of citizens who have elected us and we certainly know that Serbian citizens do not want new credits for budget spending, that Serbian citizens from the Serbian government, from the Serbian president, from those who are the government in Serbia, expect to finally start living better, to start getting bigger salaries, bigger pensions, jobs, and believe that Serbian citizens will not be satisfied with just eight new jobs for eight drivers for Boris Tadic's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9304	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9305	Here, I will try to convince the MPs why it is necessary to accept this amendment. To go beyond the fact that the precise income structure expected in 2005, but what needs to be determined is that the budget proposal will have a total expenditure of 473 billion. The fact that Djelic's law gives you some opportunity to interpret it in one way or another, and that in the draft budget law you don't include this, as you call it in column 4, expenditure from the additional revenues of the authorities, that's something else. But that's actually the amount of money that's going to be spent, which is going to be spent by the state. So if 473 billion is total cost, then it's not a share in the gross social product of 45.5%, but a little more. Why am I saying this? I'm talking because then the deficit isn't even 20 billion. There's probably no deficit. But, well, with the deficit, you should always be careful, because sometimes he's good, it's good to show up, and sometimes he's not. Depending on it, some ratings are also made to abroad, and the state is also given some opportunity to be in charge. Now, with this amendment, we're practically allowing you to fight for donations. For donations that are essentially not a cost to the state, only revenue. But if this remained -- and credit, then it would mean that based on what Djelic wrote in this law again, otherwise that law is worse than the SRJ law, you know, Mr. Labus, how SRJ is financed, there is no consolidated public spending balance, or there is it in some form, not like before on one side, where everything was transparent. Well, you see, here are full receipts, which could be receipts. But Article 13 also said that the deficit is covered, so it is said that when it comes to borrowing that the provisions of Articles 52 to 60 apply. These members, and when they talk about loans, talk about short-term loans, which practically have to be shut down on December 31st. In this second position, indent 2nd point 2), you are practically asking the National Assembly to authorise you to be in charge abroad of up to 5,700,000 dinars to allegedly cover the deficit. The deficit doesn't exist, it's true. It does not exist, because this Djelic law does not allow the deficit to occur, because there are several provisions in the implementation of the budget that say, according to that system -- only what it has and only what it exists is spent. Now, that's how we come to the central issue of the agenda -- the budget -- and that's how much the state administration and the state functions cost, or now to translate it into the language of these cocky economists from the Pitic Group and this new thing that's happened since 2001, we come to the situation to see, to decide who's going to have a primate on secure assets in the country. Bank funds, assets, etc. are uncertain means. These are the most reliable means. Budget funds, funds used i.e. provide as public revenues and which are spent, i.e. public expenditure, these are the safest funds. Now it's a central question -- who's going to have primate, who's going to dominate these funds. In the next amendments, I'll explain this formula to you how well you've imagined it. So, if MPs accept the amendment by Natasha Jovanovic, or the SRS amendment, they prohibit the government from borrowing abroad for up to 5,700,000 dinars. Why? Because the deficit is a fictitious category, formed nominally for the government to have some space in which it could allegedly implement its economic policy, in fact to give priority to those who would have access to these means of security. There's no equality when it comes to these means. Now I remind you of what started with the principle debate -- the best thing we could do was break up any discussion about economic policy, because economic policy has been the same since 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9306	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9307	On the occasion of this amendment, Minister Dinkic, who is not presently here, gave deputy MP Alexander Vukic a short lesson from his profession, when Mr Vukic said loans could not be a real source of coverage of the budget deficit. So Minister Dinkic professionally explained to MP Vukic that economic science says, on the contrary, that loans are a real source of revenue for the budget. Maybe it is, and I believe it is, because like Mr. Wolf, I'm not from the economic profession, but common sense says something else. It can't be healthy to be in charge of consumption. We don't mind business and businesses being in debt if they have an economic interest in it. However, if the state is in charge of covering the budget deficit, it is certainly irrational. It's been here for a long time, what Kundera would say, "an intolerable ease of borrowing." Minister Dinkic said taking foreign loans does not raise inflation, it does not act inflationally. It is, but borrowing leads us into debt slavery. What is often used as an argument that borrowing is not so bad, is the fact that many loans are with so-called loans. The grace period. What does grace period mean? In plain language, it means - we'll spend today, and our children and our grandchildren will return it tomorrow. So it's absolutely both moral and economical, completely unacceptable to raise loans, to fill the budget, and to spend it through wages, through various other budget-based spendings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9308	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, amendment to Natasha Jovanovic, an SRS MP, is extremely meaningful because we in the SRS are trying to amend the draft budget law to eliminate an item covering the deficit, which concerns taking credit from international financial institutions, reads, worth five billion dinars. However, in the light of this bill, it further states that guarantees and counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia will be issued in 2005, up to 93 billion 126 million 770,857 dinars, and this is said to be in favour of borrowing from foreign creditors for already signed loans up to 25 billion, the European Investment Bank, and there are still positions that further explain the reasons for the loans already taken now. Among other things, it is stated that on 31 August 2004. Serbia owes international institutions the name of loans taken 720 billion 454 million 931 thousand and 204 dinars. The amount, with more new duties, leads Serbia inevitably to debt slavery. Not only us, but many generations behind us will not be able to return what someone before us, we and someone behind us is in charge. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of six loans totalling 18 billion should be paid back to the Republic of Serbia through budget debt, and that, among other things, the money was taken on behalf of the municipal loan, amounting to a billion 240 million dinars for the development of the infrastructure of local self-government units. We in the SRS well know that part of that task went to someone's register, parties in power, specifically one party, that even that debt, whether on behalf of donations, whether on behalf of credit, did not go to the purpose of developing infrastructure of local self-government units. Furthermore, to improve energy efficiency, says here, worth two billion 409 million. How long has this development and reconstruction of the power system? We know well that it is necessary to restore and reconstruct the electricity system, but we also know well, especially in the SRS, that the imports of electricity that are regularly paid through certain IFT companies, Interface, with the participation of the people of EPS and NIS, with the people of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand by buying cheap domestic electricity that is being exported, it is precisely that electricity system that we take credit to cover all these debts, development and recovery of the electricity system. The survey committee was formed on this issue, to check all the facts and circumstances that led to imports and exports of electricity in this way. The polling committee delivered its report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 10 May, which has not yet been included in the agenda to discuss it. The chairman of the survey committee was Aleksandar Vukic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Furthermore, for the reconstruction of the electricity system, a loan from Poland amounting to three billion 61 million and 690 thousand to improve the energy system's devices. For infrastructure development, and does not say what or what, a loan of over two billion dinars is taken. The same is probably thought of the electricity system, but it's not listed in the bill. Then, you need to repay the loan to the French government, based on three loans. We in the SRS know well that a donation or loan of 399,000 euros was taken from the French government in time, and we know well that this money did not go on purpose for the development of the infrastructure of certain areas, but ended up in the hands of a political party. We now want to be in debt on behalf of the loan, and on the other hand you plan to buy eight cars for Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic's fleet. Is that your price, because they left today's session of the Republika Srpska Assembly to avoid voting in favour of the 2005 draft budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9310	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget consists of income and deficits, which, under the Budgetary and Budgetary System Act, should not exist, and the deficit will be filled in by a portion of the privatisation funds of eight billion, five billion and 700 million from donations and loans and a net domestic funding of six billion 800 million. In doing so, this net domestic funding again consists in part of privatisation, taking credit from business banks and broadcasting charters of the value of the Republic of Serbia. What's our proposal? Apart from this fact that the deficit under our law, whether we like it or not, Djelic's law, cannot exist, I must say that this story of credit has meaning and shows the strategic commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we disagree with. Namely, every man, every host before taking credit for the car "South" thinks how and how it will burden his budget, how and how he will be able to service his debts and only if he is able to create a new value in the coming period, profit, some new capital, from which he will be able to repay that money, will enter the business, of course if he is responsible enough. I must say, our country was in debt both when there was a need and when there was no need. Credits are a good thing, great, and especially when you can fertilize that money, to create a greater value than the one you've taken, but unfortunately we're covering the deficit here, there's essentially no new value, there's no fertilizing that money, there's nothing we can do after a while to pay back, but we're just going to have to pay more money in the next period to pay back. If we have calculated that this represents about 5% of our payments, interest payments represent almost 5% of our budgets, and that percentage will grow year by year and represent an increasing burden to our children, to those we should take care of, and it seems to me that we are not thinking enough about it. Since the representatives of the SRS have really talked about this enough and exhaustively, and we have no intention of being destructive or harassing you, two more days and two more nights not to leave this room, and we are out of eight in the Assembly this morning, we are pretty tired, but we are still here for citizens, and not for ourselves, so I brought you one thing to read, to show you how and how we could fill this deficit. I'm saying this for the citizens, because it's a big affair, very important, a lot of government money is being kidnapped that way and you hear what it's about. A certain military reform fund has been established by a regulation, namely, by means of a sublegal legal act, the Council of Ministers since 1 June 2004. This bandit organization, and now I'm going to tell you why, has made a decision when it comes to building military personnel apartments, providing compensation for employees' surpluses, equipment, not weapons, of course, and peace missions, but that's why the Council of Ministers will grant the Fund an asset of five billion euros. The sum will be obtained by selling military facilities and equipment, estimated to be around 20 billion euros today. What's this group doing? Otherwise, that's where very strange things happen. The director changes in one night, the National Community Assembly is never familiar with it, is not fully aware of the Council of Ministers. That's what some weird mob group keeps at the highest level. What are they doing? They have the board of directors and directors, and then they say the following thing – we will now without a public tender, without providing competition, which is contrary to the 2002 Public Procurement Act, to give the Meriden Houses company that they like, to build 394 apartments on Bezanijska Kosa, a 20m-euro job, precisely at the level of this part of the deficit that we are talking about today. Who are these people? What's going on in this country? Who thinks that they can rob this country and that they're sitting somewhere and salting our minds, convince us that they're very smart, they're reformers, reformers, they want to rob everything, by complaining that they didn't get land in Valdanos on the coast of the sea, because they didn't get in downtown Belgrade the location for sale, but they got somewhere where they can't make so many billions and millions to make money, what normal people can't think of. There's this gang together, and they don't think anyone's gonna think of it, or warn them. I didn't make this up, I read you the text. Do some of us need to write texts about such banditism, so that one of us remembers to get to know the citizens, the public and the competent state authorities about it? They have gathered to now tear apart everything that the citizens of this country have been building for decades, what they invested their money in, and we worry about how much we're going to be in debt again to cover the budget deficit of 20 billion dinars, and they're thinking about kidnapping 20 billion euros, which is 80 times more. What have we done? We didn't do anything. That is why I call on you later, since I assume the speaker of the assembly will immediately set a day for the vote, to accept this amendment by MP Natasa Jovanovic and the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9312	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic, on behalf of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9313	Just to clarify one situation, since Mr. Mircic is not here as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, and I see neither is Mr. Sutanovac, as vice president of the Security Committee. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and we had just received information from the Ministry of Finance from Mr. Djordjevic, who is an adviser to the military budget, and I think the Committee on Defence and Security responded immediately, correctly and from the SPO, has even come forward with a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia declares one decision and bans the sale of military assets in the territory of the Republic of Serbia until further, until all this with the Army Reform Fund is resolved. Those funds, as we received the information, have not been officially evaluated. Unofficially, it is estimated between 900m and four billion euros. There have been different kinds of issues in the public, but the problem is that the independent auditory house has not entered and has not determined how much funds they are. There will probably be words next week and I must say that all parliamentary parties, on a proposal from the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, have agreed. Of course, it's about large funds, it's about great opportunities for the budget and the rest, but let the procedure be known. The defence strategy must predict which barracks can be closed, which they cannot, where it is of general national and vital interest to keep the military's land, where it should not remain, and only after the sale of property or various types of compensation for the military and the dedicated industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9314	Mr. Labus, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9315	There were several personal issues and essentially budget issues. I wouldn't want to open a debate about me and the donations. Just to say, while I was in the government, I was involved in getting three billion dollars. It's not that small either, but that's not the time. You've asked a few other key questions, and I'd like to talk to you about them. Of course no one's looking forward to having a budget deficit. This means that the state spends more than money, but in this sense there must be some positive shift, which means there's a clear signal that one day, and in the very near future, the state will spend as much as it does. Look at the numbers. For the last year, the budget was 45 billion and that was what was official. There was that hidden part of the deficit, there was one pension of nine billion, four billion exchanges of the Roads Directorate and two billion debts in the Health Fund. That's 15 billion. So everything you add up is 60 billion. This year we cut to 32 billion and that's half of it. Next year we say 20 billion. I hope that we will be in such a situation in 2005, when we adopt the 2006 budget, that we will say that the time has come to balance the budget. We can't say for sure at this point, it depends on how the economy will operate next year, but this tendency of reducing the budget deficit exists this year and for the next year, and of course we would like not to use neither the privatisation funds nor the borrowing to cover this deficit. We're in that situation right now that we have to. What you said 5.7 billion, that's exactly one monthly pension grant or total amounts for subsidies to firms that have difficulties. So if we weren't in charge of those 5.7 billion, we'd have to tell the pensioners that we're not able to pay off pensions or these company workers that we can't give them subsidies or some third. You will discuss these expenses of the president's office when that amendment comes. The authority of the Assembly is to make a decision as it will be, whether you accept it or not. I'm just saying, there's a hundred million here somewhere. If we decide there's no more credit, we've got somewhere else to find a cut of over five billion. I'm asking you to accept that these are loans, not because we like to be in debt, but because we don't have a better solution right now. As far as debt is concerned, population debt is 1,300 euros. A little less than $10 billion is to be divided into 7.5 million people. Debt isn't small, but it's not like we're going into debt slavery. If we go, we'll go together, and at least we'll have the pleasure of talking about old times, good old times. You know what's important about debt? We're paying the debt now, and someone's in charge of it before -- our parents or their parents, because that's the debt we inherited in the 1970s and '80s. What we have to ensure to our children is that there is no increase in debt, no increase in debt, and this debt will have to be maintained from year to year somehow. If we keep him on this level, that's no problem. He's now below 60% of the social product. It's said that the red line is 60%. If we make it below 60% to keep it, it's okay, we're not gonna raise that burden to our kids. All countries live on loan and we have to for a while. That's our reality. In the end, I only want one misunderstanding to remove, the question of terminology - what does it mean to be realistic? Usually, when we say the deficit is real, it's a second term for non-inflation, there's no printing money. So it's borrowing without printing money. It's true, on loan, out of privatisation and out of donations. It's a term that's common, so we all use it the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9316	Mr. Shormaz, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9317	I'd just like to add Mr. Prophetic and Mr. Vukic to something that was really on the Defence and Security Committee yesterday, since we're holding the same papers. That's what the MPs on the Defence and Security Committee got today. It's exactly what you said, but it's also true that the Security Committee is unanimous, above all, on the initiative of the DSS MPs, and I can give you the credit for what you go out and that kind of thing, that's how you do the commercial, your own personal and parliamentary group. You have absolutely the right to do that. I'm sorry this government doesn't advertise that kind of thing anymore. If I asked myself more, you'd be more advertised and you'd be in a better situation, because it's done a lot more than it's predicted in Serbia. What I was about to say, and what you didn't say to either of them, that the fund illegally opened the account at Delta Bank, and we, as the Defence and Security Committee, asked to find out on what legal basis, are asking us to urgently get the answer on which legal basis is the account at Delta Bank. We hope to get that answer very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9318	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't particularly want to answer to Mr. Shormaz. I'm sure he wants this affair to get bright by the end. I want to take this opportunity to point out a few more facts. I mean, this isn't the first time you've mentioned this fund, some weird advice, or any other bull's-eye that's completely uncalled for, without anyone's control, doing what she thinks. We're not doing this because of the commercials, or the self-proclaim, or any of the other things. I'll tell you why. Many of us have lawsuits and criminal charges of the worst criminals in this country. The squirrel knows how many there are against us, there's about a hundred of them in total. All the mobsters you've heard of in this country, every week or every month, file either a private lawsuit or criminal charges against one of us, have nothing better to do. We don't have any other kind of problem. Of course they won't calm down. Of course, when you talk about this kind of money, it's not easy for anyone to talk about it seriously without even being seriously accused. If someone thinks about billions of euros and just thinks how and how to rob a country, it must be put in the way and all citizens of Serbia must know it. This must not be hidden from Serbian citizens. I think the time has come in Serbia, in which everyone can say and ask - excuse me, and for what so much money. If someone had said a million dinars, so to speak -- something I don't know what that's about, maybe there's something there, but when someone says a million euros or a billion euros, I'm sorry, it's a question for the whole country and for all citizens. That's why these people, who went out today, were gunned down. Maybe it angered Mr. Secretary, I don't know what it is, but it wasn't politics, nor did we know it, we read it in the papers, like everyone else. Then we got to that report and we could see, which you probably won at the government. No one can explain to us what it is that it is necessary for all the vehicles that remain, because I understand that you have not taken any vehicles from the Serbian presidency, not from any of the ministries, to bring new eight vehicles of three thousand cubic metres. He's got a little golf, astra, a vector, but he needs an Audi and a BMW, eight of them. For whom, for counselors, for the nanny, for the housekeeper? That's what we're asking to hear, that's what these people are asking to hear, as they're asking to hear an explanation for these billions. It's not advertising. Those who are able to provide it to themselves are advertised, because some will say, if he and his own were able to secure it immediately, and not for three months in that place, new three thousand cubic vehicles, if I could do it, if I could do it, if I could make billions of euros available, what would I do with that poor girl who couldn't give me anything, I don't care if they were thieves or not. It's advertising. That's what we're different about. The work of this congregation is to expose the worst phenomena and the worst things in society. I had no information for the Security Committee's session. It's a good thing you did it. Soon, I expect all Serbian citizens to be familiar with the results. I was particularly consumed, and I apologized and ended up, to take advantage of a folk duchess expression, when I listened to one of those officers, and I don't know what he was doing anymore, some general is a little bit of a hoax around these organizations. He was on a TV show and then, I guess, to praise himself, he says, you know, when you're a failed painter, you go to the generals. He's still making fun of our army, he's making jokes at the expense of the army, who gave him the rank of a general, and he's conducting millions and billions. Those are the ones we have to get in the way. I hope so, and I'm sure he'll want it, and that's what all the MP groups in this high house want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9320	Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where Mr. Alexander Vukic raised a very important question for the defence of the country and for the enormous capital of our country. It's about, first of all, the corruption model. It has been said that the Security Committee, whose member, held a session yesterday and that the Security Committee has requested information from the Ministry of Defence of Serbia-Montenegro and that the letter was sent to Mr. Prime Minister Prvoslav Davinic. The committee requested data on the phantom fund, which was formed illegally, unconstitutionally, illegally, where parliamentary control from the Republic of Serbia has not been established at all. In fact, the Security Committee asked whether it is possible to lease Karadjordjevo for 120 years and for which money, and this is an object of national interest and of great value, that there was allegedly an offer or negotiations in progress. If negotiations are under way, it cannot go this way and this way, as the phantom fund has rightfully taken place with the Council of Ministers of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. It was also done, the question was asked, what about Morac's barracks, whether the sale of the military facility was offered, at which price and coma were offered. We asked whether it was true that it was the sale of a water facility, one of Serbia-Montenegro's military submarines. We asked for this budget to be submitted to us today, even yesterday, and to answer if this fund had opened an account at Delta Bank. However, we received an answer from the military minister that he was unable to provide us with that information and that he was asking for a deadline, but I guess the Ministry of Defence could say the account number at Delta Bank, and whether there was an inflow of funds and on what legal basis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS argues against the proposed amendment of our MPs that it does not owe the state abroad to pay social contributions, but rather that the state funds that it sells, facilities and businesses, through privatisation, and, secondly, cut the budget for 50%, open more companies with these funds, hire workers, pay social benefits from the production process, and not to collude abroad and ask for donations, donations and gifts. Now, God forbid we depend on this European community and pray in this way; and when they bring us gifts, don't believe anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9322	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted on behalf of the SRS the amendment to delete in Article 2 paragraph 3. Point 3 refers to loans from commercial banks. From the government, as Minister Dinkic will say, I have received an answer as to why my amendment is being rejected. In the second position of this argument, the amendment is also rejected for reasons why it could not finance the budget deficit without the category proposed to be deleted, and we believe that this amendment is incomplete, because it does not contain elements that would relate to changes in the revenue or expenditure side of the budget, as conditions for reducing the proposed category. To try orally from this place to supplement my amendment, to be adopted by the minister. So, let's try to find the minister of funds, so he doesn't take credit from business banks. One way to get the funds, therefore, is for the minister to withdraw the deposit, the Serbian money he invested in EuroAxis Bank, a bank of suspicious creditworthiness, a bank of suspicious ability and a bank of suspected shareholders. However, we still don't know if it's an international or domestic bank, regardless of what's in Russia. The main shareholders are Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, and I guess by some other name and someone from the government, and I don't mean Minister Dinkic, but I think of others; however, he may be too. But I know he's a shareholder in another bank. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that you charge the rent for the business space and for the infrastructure owned by the Payment Services, which you gave to the National Savings Officer, because we all thought the National Savings Bank was a state bank. When, behold, the shareholders there, and the majority shareholders, Hamovic, Lazarevic, and I suppose the minister, too. Reduce these 280 or 250, as far as cars are concerned, it's too late, so we can't even remember the numbers anymore, at least cut it in half. Anyway, of these eight luxury cars that you've prepared for Boris Tadic, and that's why his MPs aren't here today, that they don't vote for the budget, and then let the budget pass, and you're gonna make this money that you think you get through the credits of business banks, because it's the most expensive money you can get. There is something else that is symptomatic, and I noticed by following the Minister's business path from 2000 to today. The minister came to the National Bank, adapted the National Bank. He came to the ministry, the ministry is now due to move, the building at the corner of Milos the Great and the Geprat, looking at this budget, I saw that the minister had also allocated large funds for the adaptation of prison buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9324	Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9325	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling to the final indicative of article 100. The dignity of the National Assembly must not be offended. This assembly, I know it was no one's intention, but this assembly as the highest legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia has its own, ultimately responsible, Security Committee. Yesterday we heard, he was ambushed, he was looking for information. When he gets the information, he'll assess what's public and what's not. It says that we are reasonable people and that we will not, as we said this morning, until the enemies of this country are afraid to use the bodies of dead young people to destroy one institution, we will not directly help them, nor directly, because we have taken measures at the level of the Assembly to keep what is suspicious and what can be called a mob, I support what is said, to stand in the way if there is a reason, but to preserve the safety of this country. Don't be angry, I have to remind you, because each of you is well aware of the criticism in the Assembly, as to why I'm only talking about the army, and not about the apparitions that are being predicted here, King Petar said when he called Mr. Pasic aside – do you want me to write that we need for war? Some things never, when it comes to security, it's not about budgets, it's about the polemics that were being conducted, until everything checks out, they don't come out in public. I thank everyone, because we all know that we have confidence in our Security Committee and that we will wait for the correct information, and that the Assembly, because citizens will have to know everything, will certainly decide what, when and how, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the correct data.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9326	Mr. Wolfiche, People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9327	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after "the man is the master of every unspeakable word, and the slave of every spoken word," I will try not to add anything to what Mr. Markovic said, although in the meantime we have heard that there are very dangerous mobsters, and some have warned me of safety, but what to do to them, and dangerous mobsters must once behind bars to find themselves. So, when it comes to this amendment by the People's MP Mr Markovic, he has a similar meaning in this third part of the fill-up of the budget deficit, so-called. the net domestic financing, along with part of the privatisation income and the issue of securities of value, is therefore also mentioned by borrowing, i.e. taking credit from business banks. Our intention, and this amendment, was to try to fill that deficit in a different way or to avoid it in every sense, but not in a way that someone will say – we will have a shortfall in any case, which means you will have a pension less than or half a pension less, so you are certainly in favour of not getting your pensions. On the contrary, we are in order for pensioners to have regular pensions, to be incomparably higher, and due to the recent transfer of nominal money from last year to this year, you will see that these pensions will be realistically lower, unfortunately. We think that a different and better future should be ensured for the citizens of Serbia, by guaranteeing that they do not have to be in debt each year at such an amount and that the percentage of the interest payments in the budget is increasing year after year. So that in 2006, our budget doesn't get any bigger. One more thing, what Mr. Minister was talking about today, I'd just like to show that he was wrong about one detail. Namely, speaking, speaking to the MPs of the SRS today, and I would say in this assembly to the only opposition parliamentary group, he said -- no, we didn't have four months in 2004. It had Serbia formally at all times as president, but you couldn't know it, nor do you have a reckoning at the time you proposed the 2004 budget. You proposed the 2004 budget when you calculated that Serbia had a president. You didn't make a posterior account, you did it before that. It was your budget that so many presidents of the Republic or who performs the duties of the President of the Republic could spend money. Your bill was $33 million for 2004, and then today it's your bill, you don't know if maybe in two months in 2005 because of the emergency elections or because of the adoption of the Constitution we'll be left without a president, but you've predicted 185 million. Six times as many. So that's what we were talking about. There's no excuse he's been gone for four months. He wasn't there, but before that, you put an account in front of the National Assembly and you said -- here, this is my budget proposal, very restrictive, there's not much spending in the state administration, and today you're explaining it to us – that's because it wasn't. You can never know whether it will be or not, because you are predicting an institution, not whether it is Mr. Tadic or whether it may be you, or perhaps Mr. Prophetovic. I don't believe it, people don't believe it either, but nothing's impossible. So, simply, it's one of the things that I wanted to point out to you and it would be good, because when ordinary people think about how it's worth it to banks and how it's worth it, and how we get in, slowly but certainly, in debt slavery, interest on the interbank market from 1.6 to 1.8%, they place their assets here at 8, 9, 10, 11, 12% on an annual level; there goes the first alignment with the European currency, and then crediting or going into another kind of banking business. Think about whether we're able to make that kind of excess value, that kind of profit, that we're ever going to be able to get back from, because that's what we leave to our kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9328	Anyone else on this amendment? Minister Dinkic, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9329	Ladies and gentlemen, the net domestic budget financing is not the invention of the Serbian finance ministry. All developed countries in the world have this category in their budgets. The vaults of all countries around the world emit bonds and are owed on the capital market. Look at the public debt of Germany, America. A thousand billion marks have been issued by Germany in time between the 1990s and 2000s to restore East Germany. It's a perfectly normal kind of funding budget deficit. So, no worries, it's not our invention, it's standard budgetary practice. As for other sources of net domestic financing, these are bank loans, not only from business banks, but also from the central bank. It also offers a law on the central banks of all countries. Of course, it's not right for a loan to be taken and not to be returned, because it's inflation. We didn't take any loans from the central bank this year, we didn't take any loans from the business banks. It is normal to predict this possibility in the budget, as predicted in the budget this year, so we have not used it, we will predict in the 2005 budget and we will not use it at all. Tomorrow some government will predict this as well. You will be, some of you have said that MPs are very long, so in 2010 when you make the budget you will have this item of net domestic funding, whatever party is in power. I'd like to tell an MP who's not sure if he's a singler in a bank. I want you to be safe. I've never been, I've never been, at this point, a shareholder in any bank, not in the country, not abroad, not a shareholder, not in any company, not in the country, not abroad. I worked for 10 years at the Faculty of Economics. It's just that everyone has their own way, but they do entrepreneurship, scientific work. I wasn't interested in entrepreneurship. So, I'm interested in the macro-economics and what I had ambitions, and I realized one part by working at the National Bank, to make a stable dinar. The second part of my ambition is to take care of public finances, to make people pay taxes in proportion to their strength, to keep them as low as possible for the grey economy to come down into the least possible frameworks. I'm interested, and I don't believe even when I'm not one day a finance minister that I'm going to play a part in some banks, because it's simply not my motive and purpose in life, which is nothing bad. I think those people who have an entrepreneurial spirit should be respected and rewarded in this country. I mean, somebody said there's going to be a pension less real. There will be no pensions in real terms, pensions will grow, regular payments will be paid according to this budget proposal, and moreover 12.5 pensions will be paid. Nor will there be any debt slavery. They mention interest rates that are now high, I admit and I'm not happy about it, 1.6 to 1.8, which are now mentioned interest rates were 5% in 2000, so they fell to 1.6, so next year they're going to be lower. Of course, by cutting taxes on financial transactions, by abolishing sales taxes, bank fees will be lower and as finance minister, I will work to lower them. We will not introduce Serbia into debt slavery because we have designed a very thrice-saving budget, a three-fold lower level of foreign borrowing guarantees. Otherwise, the amount of foreign credit deficit financing is lower than is foreseen even by the rebalance this year. So this is a very cautious, realistic budget, which guarantees stability, and that the country can develop uninterruptedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9330	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, then Mr Radovanovic, then Mr Baralic, so you, Mr Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9331	Well, at first we need to clear up some things. First and foremost, only if it is some necessary functions, which must be financed, because if they were not financed, there would be no government or state able to fulfil its functions. For these things, if they cannot provide funds from a regular inflow, based on taxes and other charges, it is possible to predict it as a cost and to cover the deficit in another way. We in the SRS suspect that all the functions mentioned in the budget are necessary. And if the economic situation in the country is so difficult, then there is no rational justification to form such a number of agencies, offices and other capillaries of the para-state government, which is being financed, which suggests that the concept since 2001 is not a thrifty but a wasteful concept, according to the system "saw a frog where horses are being weaved and she has raised her leg". But you know how in that story frogs went, run over by horses, couldn't see her, she was so small. Which means -- if there is an agency in Germany for an area, it doesn't mean there has to be an agency in Serbia. Because the fact that there is an agency doesn't mean that you've harmonised with Europe. In that sense, we object to you, that there are many irrationalities. But now let's get back to the question of deficits. He's a fictitious category. It's a category that's made up because the government isn't sure of what she wrote in Article 1. So all these tax revenues with you are enigma. And that's why you predicted such a high amount of non-tax revenue. Now, about this amendment, you say here -- net domestic funding. I must tell you again, there is no category in Djelic's law. She's gone. Here, read, from Articles 52 to 60, where the matter of borrowing is, there is no net category. There's no such thing as a net domestic funding. Well, then, it makes a logical connection to this, you've stated that the deficit will cover the revenues of privatisation, the part that belongs to the state. But it's regular income. You had to place him in non-tax revenue. And when it comes to what you stated in Article 2(2), these eight billion, and what you stated in point 1), and what you stated in Article 21. You in article 21 say you'll honor your pensioners with your privatisation income. And you did not include those revenues in Article 1. So, the whole story is about a fictitious deficit, which is made like a luft, like a space that allows the government to behave, but if that space is used by our government, then it's going to be "the grandmother combs, the village burns." The government, the state administration, must share the fate of citizens. If citizens can't meet their needs with 100%, so can the state administration with 100%. I have to remind you -- the second day after Ceausescu informed the nation that Romania didn't owe him, the CIA prepared a coup against him. So some degree of duty must exist, because you bankers like to take it -- give it, etc. Now, with this amendment, we want to stop you from borrowing from the business banks. Why? Because it's unnecessary. Because we want to force you, because we can't limit you to the total amount of expenditure because no one will vote for it, but we want to accept at least this amendment, to limit the government from doing this thing - to be in debt with the banks. He can't be in debt with the banks. Secondly, I've already noted, the revenues from privatisation you've spread to three or four positions. That means you don't respect a member of your 12th Budgetary System Act. You don't respect me. So, the deficit is made up, it's a fictional category, which should allow the government to relax, to behave freely, to cover certain things, and so you've put aside the topic that we're not talking about irrationality and something that's an excessive item, like contracts, official travels, machines, equipment. Well, of course you need more machines when you have so many organs. Of course, the more organs you've created, the more fleets, cabinets, etc. So you're not a lifesaver. Now, we want to get the government to be thrifty and I have to tell you again -- this Djelic law is no good. Change an ambulance. And this economic classification plan is wrong. He may be harmonised with the European Union, but in our language he means nothing. Because behind these positions, there's little one who can figure out what's hiding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9332	Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic, so we told Rajko Baralić, then Veroljub Arsic, then Veselinović
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment, the MP of the SRS, is logical and justified for several reasons. This amendment provides that the part relating to domestic financing of 6 billion and 793 million should be deleted for the coverage of the deficit set out in Article 1 of this proposal. Furthermore, the bill stipulates that domestic funding should consist of receiving from privatisations achieved during a certain period, then issuing securities of value issued by the Republic of Serbia and loans from business banks. If you think that from domestic funding, on behalf of which you get from the privatisation achieved during a certain period, you cover the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget, I think you missed your hopes and plans there. You hope for nothing because we know well that in the previous period privatisation was made by the most profitable companies in Serbia. We know that sugars sold out for three euros, a total of nine euros, Miodrag Kostic - Kolet of DS, sold out three cement plants of Novi Popovac, Beocin and Kosjeric for small money. And that privatisation was done by people from the DS. We know that for small money, tobacco factories in Nis and Vranj were sold. It's a special story, which I'll talk more about when there's one of the next amendments. Mr Dinkic, as well as how the privatisation of the National Savings Bank was performed, which you personally replied was state and suddenly became private. We know in the SRS that a way of privatising the National Savings Bank has been avoided and that you have chosen a way of capitalising the National Savings Bank, which has become the private property of certain companies in the privatisation process, through companies from exotic islands, Findale and Koprom. "The second and third capitalisation last 2003, which lasted from February to September 2003, was catastrophic, at the expense of state money and state property. And that's where the state escaped, thanks to you, to get some money from that privatisation. Furthermore, projected a standoff from positions, items to cover deficits in the budget, issue of securities from values issued by the Republic of Serbia, and issue charters from the value of the Treasury. We in the SRS know that these records of the value of issuing the National Bank of Serbia to certain business banks, giving 22% of the interest given to these banks by the state. It is a very unfavourable credit relationship that is going to harm the Serbian state. The state of Serbia is losing, and it is also losing by covering and deficiting in the name of the 2005 budget. What is extremely important, the third type of coverage of domestic financing, covering budget deficits with loans to business banks. We in the SRS believe that this is not how that idea you planned in this draft budget bill for 2005 will be realized. The details of the deficits in the budget and privatisation and NGOs, which you said today that it is more detailed in the context of the bill's proposal, we will talk about another amendment because you listed something a little accurate, and mostly what is not true and what is not in the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9334	Here's a chance to answer this question. When the recapitalisation of the National Savings Bank was carried out, which you mention for days and months, I was neither governor of the National Bank nor minister of finance. You mentioned it yourself in September 2003. The assembly decided to appoint Kori Udovicki in July 2003. At that moment, when the recapitalisation was carried out, which you condemn, I was not in any function. I was a citizen, I wasn't a governor, I wasn't anywhere else. On the other hand, as finance minister, I have now ordered that state property, i.e. the property of the PDO used by 12 business banks, banks can buy or that these assets be converted into state property in these banks. The state will increase its participation in some banks, including the National Savings Bank, within a very short period of time, I think, for several months to come. Just for the truth and for those people watching this, I want to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9335	Mr. Minister, about the property of the PDO earlier, which is used by the National Savings Bank, related to business space, computer system, etc., which you say will be leased or will be purchased by these commercial banks, or returned to state property, that's fine. However, in connection with the capitalisation of the National Savings Bank, and the second and third recapitalisation, which began in February 2003, ended on 10 September and the same year, when the recapitalisation began, you were then governor of the NBJ, which was February 2003. You stopped being governor of the NBJ, you were relieved of your duties on July 22, 2003, when the second and third recapitalisation of the National Savings Bank was already in the advanced phase of realization. The national savings bank was privatised during this period thanks to certain companies that were registered, of the Shore companies "fat and purse", on exotic islands, called "Findale" and "Coprom", through which a paper structure was carried out, via the Euroaxis bank in Moscow, to make six new firms the owners of the National Savings Bank, which is now privatised. These new companies are "Elim", "Pima", "Principal", "Daners Club" and two other companies whose names I can't remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9336	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9337	You want to hear me, I repeat again - what you're talking about happened in September and October 2003. You said yourself I was cleared in July of the month. While I was governor, the National Savings Bank was state-owned. The privatisation was carried out in October, and I have nothing to do with the privatisation. Now, however, we want to increase, return one part of the state participation and we started this process at the Government of the Republic of Serbia as early as May. If you want to know how these owners, co-owners of the savings bank, bought the shares -- they sold one of the banks they owned in private to the Austrian Folks Bank, which works here today, and they bought the National Savings Bank's shares with that money. Why them? Because the previous government did not allow the capitalisation of the National Savings Bank, which was necessary because the deadline for the 10m-euro censorship to be reached, was carried out through the European Bank's recapitalisation for Reconstruction and Development. They were simply not interested in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the German Development Bank having completed the recapitalisation and then in need, in order not to lose the licence, the recapitalisation was carried out in October 2003. In fact, the new owners used the funds they already owned. They had already had one bank that had been authorised by the National Bank since the 1990s. They sold it to the Austrian Folks Bank and that money, through the bills you're talking about, recapitalised the National Savings Bank. There is no secret, I'm just telling you that all this time I was neither the finance minister nor the governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9338	I ask the MPs, the minister and all the participants in the discussion to return to the subject. Mr. Baralic, you have your word, and let Mr. Veselinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9339	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I also want to help balance the budget from real sources, which is in the spirit of the amendments tabled by the MP of the SRS. I remind you that by privatising the "Popovac", "Kosjeric" and "Beocin", the new owner, without respect for the concession contract, has been granted the right to use the lab site, although there are precise rules that non-renewable natural factor cannot be used in this way. To make the accident bigger, Beocino cement factory is located in the territory of Fruska Gora National Park, so the National Parks Act has been violated. To cancel the privatisation of these cementers, to cancel the privatisation of Jelen Dola, the largest site of the limestone in the Balkans, because it is the exact same thing, that new owners are offered conditions based on the new Law on concessions, which, under the concession agreement, can use this in a way that is used everywhere in the world and that the budget of the Republic of Serbia gets real resources, that it does not have to be in debt with business banks. I also remind you that just before the privatisation of the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje of the then government, whose finance minister was Mr Bozidar Djelic, quickly decided to lift excise duties on domestic cigarettes. After that, foreign citizens and foreign companies became owners of our tobacco factories and in just a few months, practically, they received the tobacco industry in Serbia. I remind you that at that moment, the fiscal capacity of the tobacco industry in Serbia, I'm talking about 2002, was one billion dinars. The next thing, just days before the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, Mr. Goran Novakovic, Energy and Mining Minister, without a tender, bought raw oil for the needs of the Serbian state for a whole year. I also remind you, just a few days before the Law on Public Procurement was adopted, the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia bought 35,000 protective masks for the police from the Dutch producer, which are seven and a half times more expensive than the Trayal, although Trayal exports protective masks to Israel, the United States, Canada and elements for these masks to another 50 countries in the world. We could count as many as you want. It has already been mentioned that Mrs Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic practically printed four billion dinars by issuing a note without cover and we could talk about a lot more. Therefore, Mr Vice-President and Mr Minister, we ask that the adoption of the final accounts for 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 be included on the agenda of this Parliament. I also ask that someone finally give an answer as to how it was possible that in a known action – oil for democracy in Serbia, you know exactly what I'm talking about, it's hundreds of thousands of boxes of oil and mules, and those energies are paid only for customs and transport costs, as it is possible that companies dealing with, above all, heat, local self-government and cities, and it's an association of so-called. Serbia's free and independent cities, that the price of a calories on the element of calculation, is not that energy is donated to the citizens of Serbia. Everything is charged as if it were paid 100%, and the state of Serbia for the reasons I understand it received this as a gift from the Norwegian government. There are 15 very competent conversators here. It's not my theme tonight. The theme is this second. I won't be calling again tonight. Real resources are around us, and we just need to have the strength to shut up and tell the truth what happened. Terrible things have happened, and I'm also looking for an answer on donations, on many other issues. That is what this parliament and the citizens of Serbia deserve, as many other issues deserve to be answered. Who's to blame for answering, who's right to apologize and keep doing business.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9340	I repeat the application, so once again this very assembly, precisely at the request of the Ministry of Finance, has given the order, the tender has been called, the auditors will come forward and this assembly will choose the auditor and we will finally have final accounts, because we are a responsible state. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's budget is being adopted, one of the essential acts that we need to bring. And, well, we stayed here tonight to discuss it, instead of doing it for the next few days, slowly, systematically, in order to make it clear to all the citizens what was proposed here, what was right and wrong. On the one hand, budget promoters say that this budget is restrictive, representative, precise, clear, rational, and on the other hand we Serbian radicals, as the only and right opposition party, say that this budget is not good, that it is not developmental, that this budget does not solve many of the social problems accumulated in our society and that are daily pressured by citizens of Serbia. Namely, this amendment, submitted by the SRS, Mr. Momir Markovic, aims to show that we are right when we say that we will not vote for this budget, because we are struggling in every way to point out to you that you simply abandon the coverage of deficits in this way, but rather to get revenues from real sources, that is to take only in your environment, not too far away, in the Serbian Government, then in many of your party exposures that you have formed, I mean, first of all, some trustees, some advice, where a lot of budget funds are spent, and not to talk about the President of the Republic and the Office of the President of the Republic, and his luxury limos. If these inert consumers and this bureaucratic apparatus were removed from the budget, we wouldn't need to have a deficit in this budget. Normally, under Article 2 provides for covering the deficits from several sources. This is about covering from privatisation funds, then some business banks and normal loans, i.e. loans from the IMF or some other organisations. Someone here mentioned an auditor. Happiness will be if this assembly really elects the auditory institute, a real auditor who, from 2000 to today, would examine how budget funds were spent in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, to see exactly where this transparent government of DOS was, what they were doing, what about many donations, what about privatisations. They privatized the most vital facilities in our country, cements, brewers, olives, sugars. That's what could've worked, that's what could've encouraged production, that's what could've stabilized our country. Unfortunately, it's all privatized. We have information that much has been sold out, and we have information that one part of these factories, such as cement plants, is sold at far greater value than it was shown in the sale of these companies. Someone said this government isn't working well, it's not working, and it's someone from the DSS, a colleague who's a member of the Security Committee. A man is absolutely right. If he were wondering if it would be better, but I'm sure this government doesn't work as well as it does, and especially it doesn't work in all its territory. There are simply anomalies, absurdities that directly undermine the integrity of this country and sovereignty. For example, I can't help but mention my Raska area, and here today I'm being called from many companies in Novi Pazar, as ordered to celebrate tomorrow November 20th some holiday that adopted the Bosniak national council. There they were given flags of the Bosniak national council, which must be pointed out in visible places in all state and public institutions in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica. No one responds to that, no one here knows anything about it, and I'm particularly saying that the New Market Community Assembly is formed with the majority, and to this day, the council can't enter the Parliament of the Novi Pazar Municipality, because the ministry has gone deaf about the rights and the law regarding the council. That's why I'm taking the opportunity to say that the government should be more efficient and especially the ministries that are responsible for its area, that the law is being implemented and fulfilled.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9342	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9343	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and this amendment is as good as before, as submitted by my fellow MPs on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The aim of these amendments is to define exactly what this deficit is doing and from which sources it will be financed. The promoter himself here is not clear enough, except in a piece that says that one part of the funds, worth eight million dinars, will be privatized. However, already in point 3 of that same attitude is said to be "a net domestic funding of 6,793,000,000", and this 6,793,000,000 will be filled out from some new privatisation. What it fails to fill out from some new privatisation, including those eight billion dinars, will be covered by the issue of securities issued by the Republic of Serbia and a credit from business banks. Here is the question, as in that previous amendment -- how many credits are there going to be? The previous amendment referred to donations and loans. Prime Minister Miroljub Labus and Mr Dinkic spoke in an election campaign, in the second round of presidential elections, that if Mr Tadic wins, there will be donations everywhere. I don't see any more donations, I see only one source of funds called credit, probably to fill up some rolling stock and hire drivers to work here, and most likely they're from the DS. Next, what's controversial is the amount of donations that don't show here. Looks like they're dry. Of these three billion and three hundred million dollars, as many as there were words, it seems to me that half of them ended up with DS in the Marshall Islands, and some other half ended up in the Sail Islands. There's a question of who's involved in all these machinations. We know it was Janjušević, Kolesar etc. When it comes to our home-famous business banks, I must say that even if you try to make some income that the state owes you under some law, such as. A parent supplement for the second, third and fourth children, then in that form, where it says everything you need to get from the documentation, so the last item, Mr. Minister, to know what it looks like, says that it has to carry a photocopy of the savings book or checkcards issued by the National Savings Bank, that's what your state authorities do, the Commercial Bank, Delta Bank and Postage Savings, though, the only state bank that's left, and you wanted to close it, so someone told you to lower the ball a little, because there's the owner and government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, when you finally define who's going to lend those credits to the business banks, there can be some trust in you. It is not disputed that you said that securities of value are broadcast by every country. We know that, only there are certain legal regulations that, if broken, someone has to go to jail. It seems to me that too many laws are being broken here, and no one's answering for it, and in some way, the one who breaks the law in one way or another finds power again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9344	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9345	Here, let me give you an explanation. It was never my intention, God forbid, to close the Post Office, nor can I do it as Minister of Finance. It's the jurisdiction of the governor of the National Bank. However, the fact is that the Post Office did not effectively pay off pensions that we regularly made at the expense of the pension fund. And the pension fund and we, our vault, were paying pensions just in time, but these pensions were divided seven days in Serbia. Normally, I had to ask myself why. If we provide a few billion to pay off half the pension and we do it twice a month, the question is why doesn't the money come to the pensioner after seven days. Then we realized there was something wrong with the one who pays. Turns out it wasn't the pension fund, the pension fund was very up-to-date. It just turns out the Post Office is stalling for some reason with those payments. Then our control started, then the mail itself got involved. Here, today, two months after that intervention, they pay off for three days' pension. It's true I asked for the Director General's shift. It's not in my jurisdiction, but I asked as finance minister, because simply, a woman is unable to arrange a faster payment. Asking for the Director's shift isn't the same as what you said - to ask for the bank's closure. Change of directors can improve that payment. Surely the Post Office must be brought to a far better condition, because its liquidity is very weak. Of course, that was the only reason for our intervention. We're not happy today. Three days' payoffs. That's got to pay off in two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9346	Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9347	Mr. Dinkic, I didn't think you'd been doing it since you were Minister of Finance. However, you were in power one way or another, however, with a slight interruption from June 22, 2003 to March 2004. You tried to close the Post Office while you were governor of the National Bank, then Yugoslavia, when you closed down the other big banks. However, you did not answer my question why does money from the budget, directed to citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a parental allowance for the second, third and fourth children, have to go through the current accounts of the Post Office, the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank or Delta Bank? So these other banks have the right to live, too. What do you define for citizens where they will have current accounts? That's what your state body is betraying. One more thing, speaking of these business banks. The closure of large social banks kind of coincides with attempts to transfer payment traffic from the Office for Accounting and Payment to Business Banks. You can claim what you want and say here now - we're cutting the financial transaction tax so there won't be any bank fees. Mr. Minister, there's a banking commission and it's not a tax on financial transactions. At the time of the PDO, the banking commission was 0.22-0.25%. Now it's moving, in the best cases, when large payments are made, by one order of 0.7-1.2%. It is only because they remain on the market or party banks or domestic private banks that have a monopoly on payment traffic in the Republic of Serbia, and in any case you are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9348	Here you go, Minister Dinkic's reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9349	Of course I'll answer your question. You didn't really think the Ministry of Finance would determine which banks pay first, second and third children's fees. It's not the Ministry of Finance. It's not the government's only ministry. There's the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. It determines who will pay these fees. Our vault transfers that amount to banks designated by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. I guess it was done on the basis of some tender. Indeed, we have not appointed the banks that pay. I don't care who pays anything, all that matters is that the money we transfer from the vault is effective, as soon as it reaches the user. Also, you're wrong when you say it has to do with the closure of major state banks with the transfer of payment traffic, because one thing happened on January 3, 2002, and the other on January 1, 2003. A year after that, the big old state banks were shut down just because they had eight billion loss marks. There's no other reason. What I was talking about is that since 1 January 2004, sales tax on bank fees has been abolished, or commissions. So there will be no taxation of bank fees, and thus the banks will have four billion discharges, so they will be able to lower interest rates. That's exactly what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9350	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9351	I don't want to defend the DS amendment, especially because we disagree with it, because we don't want to interfere with the adjustment of the province's own revenues, especially in this way, where the part being secured from the republican budget would increase. So I went out to tell you the next thing. A little while ago, I think that's what the body is called, the general secretariat of the President of the Republic of Serbia, because the president of the Republic of Serbia is engaged in significant diplomatic activities, and tonight he went to another game, after last night's Real-Partizan, and since he is engaged in significant diplomatic activities, the Secretary-General – I am saying this, Mr. President, because one MP is at risk, I was attacked by a powerful institution of the President of the Republic, a powerful man, even more powerful service, and they have come upon all the powers – says that I have deceived the public, by saying that five vehicles for the needs of the service of the President of the Republic and two vehicles for the needs of the People's Office. That's how they're so brave and brave, and they say I've been deceived by the public. I am pleased to be so named ad personam as the great opponent of this Caesar across the street and that Caesar found himself in the midst of his violent diplomatic activities, because now there is a new situation. You know, he's got huge diplomatic activity now. He's got a lot going on for the state. I hope some of our guys don't lose a game tonight. After he got into business like that, he remembered to say I'd fooled the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a report from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government may have fooled the public now, and I expect the government to inform anyone whether they've deceived the public or not, but I certainly haven't deceived anyone. The President of the Republic and this powerful body, the General Secretariat, I don't even know what it is, in the Presidency of the Republic, it's good to deal with the National Assembly, with the MPs, but it's not nice when they use those expressions. So let me read it again. Passenger vehicles, it says here, party four, passenger vehicles from 2,000 cubic centimeters, which we would say in our own language, 2,000 cubic meters to 3,000 cc's. So these are those powerful high-class vehicles. So it's an audience vehicle, a BMW, a Mercedes, the most powerful that ordinary citizens can't afford. For the purposes of administration 37, therefore, for joint operations of the Republic authorities, seven vehicles for the needs of the entire National Assembly, five vehicles for the purposes of the service of the President of the Republic. Two vehicles for the needs of the People's Office of the President of the Republic, 11 vehicles for the needs of the district in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 12 vehicles for other state authorities and special organisations to replace the vehicle, let's now not know what other state bodies are, but 12 vehicles, not much, one vehicle for the needs of the Ministry of Economy, the Bugalo in that one, has to change the car, five for the needs of the Ministry of Capital Investments. I've read this, ladies and gentlemen, once again, and now I'm asking for someone from the government to tell me on behalf of the ruling majority whether I've deceived the public. As all the journalists received the report, so did I. I'd like someone to come out and say who fooled the public, whether it's the mighty body of Caesar - the secretary general or me. If I have deceived the public, I will say, I have been deceived by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm kidding, I wouldn't fool the public, first I checked whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia was right or wrong, I wouldn't trust them very much, but I watched them see where those cars were really going to go. I really ask the minister to come out and say if it's true what I read or not, that Comrade Caesar would know that we didn't do this with some intention to harm Caesar's reputation, but to really inform the public and ask why and who needs seven vehicles of high cubicity, the most expensive vehicles, and that no one knows what kind of service he has and why it's all used. I must say that I have seen this as an attempt to intimidate Caesar's cabinet, as an attempt to scare me about what I'm saying from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but may Mr Caesar and his secretary-general not worry, I will continue to remind him of that, I will continue to remind him of the promise, both for new jobs and for higher wages, for higher pensions, he has made such promises to the citizens of Serbia, and somehow I am not worried and I am not very much about those very strong and powerful who, by the law and by the Constitution, follow him, or anything else. May he take care of the citizens of Serbia he has deceived, betrayed and falsely promised to live better, and in the end he alone lives better. By the way, there's only one promise, and he didn't keep it either. He told the citizens he didn't want to live on Santa, he didn't want to move to Santa's, and he made a mistake. He may not have made a mistake, but he has deceived the citizens, moved to the Santas, ladies and gentlemen, that is the most significant result in the work of the president, I'm sorry, Mr. Caesar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9352	Please, I warn you, of course, that what you read and what came to the Assembly today from the government, that's the data that came in and it's not controversial, from the tender, of course it's true, but I'm warning you that the amendment to Article 4 didn't read at all according to what you were saying, so I'm asking you not to use it. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9353	When someone looks at this Article 4, they first have to wonder where this came from in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It all started somewhere since January 2002 and in that period right before that, when Mr. Kasa asked that the Omnibus Law on AP Vojvodina be passed in this assembly, when Nenad Canak whirred where our money was, and were able to pass this law on AP Vojvodina, so that now along with DS and Boris Tadic, the same separatists made you a coalition in the Regional Assembly. Let's take a look at what revenue the AP Vojvodina needs from the budget. It is said that part of the income tax, 18% profit tax, part of the company's income tax of 42%, the transfer funds transferred from the budget of 13 billion and 484 million and other revenues made in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The question now raises what are the other revenues, in which they are the amount, whether they are the subject of the Republic of Serbia's budget, to which the money will be spent. The original revenues or fiscal revenues that exist under the laws are customs revenues. The AP Vojvodina does not have the right to make those revenues unless we allow it to be budgeted. Accize, it's a republican type of income and the AP has no right to do so. Taxes, it's the same fiscal republican income and the AP has no right to do so. There are still charges of the republic or locality, but I don't know where the separatist group, headed by Boris Tadic, will be in the AP Vojvodina, and behind it are Kasa and Nenad Canak, to collect the remaining revenues of the AP Vojvodina. I just want to say that there's always talk here about what real budget sources are, so it's said to be those revenues that don't make inflation. I think you're wrong about that, especially the Deputy Prime Minister, because taxes can't make inflation either. You have proven this by changing excise duties on oil and oil derivatives, and how much inflation will be due to taxes, you will see from January 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9354	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9355	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised that the Serbian government did not accept the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The government doesn't normally do that. Our amendments are generally not accepted, but in some amendments and additions to the law, what we have proposed to the amendments, they include very quickly in changes and additions. That is why our amendments to this budget law will certainly be the subject of the government when budget rebalancing is done, because unfortunately this is the budget, which, like this one for the current year, will suffer rebalancing. Something else is very interesting to me here, and it concerns the Legislative Committee. In Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say – the President-in-Office of the National Assembly submits to the legislator, the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government. The Legislative Committee will reject untimely, incomplete amendments with offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly. My amendment, submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, reads as Article 5. The draft budget law is deleted. The reason is that the guarantees to be issued by the Republic of Serbia in 2005, and to be decided by the committees of the Serbian Parliament, cannot be settled by the 2005 budget law. What if the Serbian Parliament doesn't vote guarantees? Dear colleagues, first of all, the amendment is not an untimely one, but rather a mild time, it's completely obvious and it's obviously not offensive content. I do not understand why the Legislative Committee has proposed not to adopt this amendment. As for the amendments to Article 5, I will say that Article 5 refers to the issue of guarantees and counter-guarantees of the Republic of Serbia up to 93,126,770,857 dinars in 2005, and then to what is left. As stated in the explanation of the amendments I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we think that this Article 5 should certainly be deleted, because it is known that counterguarantees and guarantees should be approved by the Serbian Parliament and really raises one logical question, what if what is foreseen in the budget is not accepted by the Serbian Parliament. I know what kind of explanation the government would give. After all, there is one in writing, says the government that the amendment is rejected for the reason it is in Article 10. The law on the budgetary system found that the budget consists of a general and specific part and that the general part of the budget includes, among other things, an estimate of the total amount of new guarantees from the Republic during the financial year. It is likely that Mr. Minister will say – this had to be installed in the budget, because it is in accordance with Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, and in advance I say that the SRS, and I stress that, the only party in this House that is opposition and that we are proposing amendments to certain government proposals in principle, is not our concern on what the government had to propose, because this is how we want to convince the government that it needs to change and those laws that rely on the budget law. These are colleagues who spoke here according to these previous amendments and stressed. And here when I was looking at this Article 5, which is all the funds that are provided here, this is just amazing, that the man's skin that these are money that the government intends to put us in charge of, even though Mr. Labus said tonight - the state will spend as much as it has in the near future. I don't know what's going on in the near future, I guess in 2005, and the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 August 2004 is 720 billion 454 million 931 thousand 204 dinars or 9.7 billion euros. This is a debt which, unfortunately, leads to debt slavery, no matter how many government representatives tell us it's not, but every layman does. And here in this nomenclature and here everything that's listed, the foreign currency debt balance, among other things, is talked about a debt to the London Club of 66 billion 132 million 504 thousands of dinars, and then I remember what today's newspaper published under one terrible title, which is sacrificed by Serbia, and it's about paying back to the London Club of 62 cents for each loaned dollar and that, according to what the newspapers wrote today, goes to Mr Dinkic's soul. Maybe the newspaper and we don't believe everything they write, but the paper also wrote about getting a car for the president of the Republic, so in the day, it turns out that we also got a definitive piece of information that is really for the cabinet, or for the people's so-called. Boris Tadic's people's office buys eight luxury limos and thus Mr Tadic will keep that part of his promises, that he will hire eight drivers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9356	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9357	I agree that the papers aren't supposed to believe everything, but I think you have to trust yourself, because it's you who ratified the debt write-off law to the London Club. I assume you were at that session where it was voted to write down 62% of the debt, which means 38% of the debt is paid, not 62. Although it must be clear to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the paper did not pass it well, that is, they have completely reversed the amounts. It's not 62% of the debt, it's 62% of the debt write-off. You've ratified it yourself, and I believe you must know very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9358	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 6. The draft budget law for 2005, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment, so that I would not read to you, is mainly about erasing certain positions and replacing certain figures. The point of the amendment is that budget expenditure for the basic purpose of specialised services of 15 billion 636 million and 706 000 represents an extremely large amount of money for these purposes, which are mostly undefined and suspicious. That's why in the U.S., we ask simply - what do you want to hide? Do you want to focus that money on other purposes, away from the public and control of the National Assembly? Actually, what's this about? The amendment I submitted to article 6 provides for a share of 8 billion 829 million and 39,000 to focus on raising pensions, because we know that pensioners from a working relationship should have bigger pensions. It's not demagogue. In addition, the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, promised more pensions, higher salaries, a better standard of life in the election campaign, and the truth is that this bill wants for itself, i.e. for its advisers in so-called. People's office to buy eight luxury cars. After all, he's late on his agricultural pension payment. These days, you should pay off agricultural pensions for December 2002, which means a 22-month delay in payment. Through this amendment, we in the SRS want to channel funds from the budget for specialised services to improve the material status of pensioners. Since there is still time, I would like to ask Mr Dinkic about my discussion today of this bill in principle, when I criticised a large amount of 904 million 586 thousand dinars for NGOs, and you have replicated wanting to explain this critical position, you stated that it is mostly part of the funds allocated to NGOs and the Red Cross, as well as some other purposes. It's mostly that money. I checked that in detail in the meantime. For the Red Cross, the i.e. Eighty-five million dinars are foreseen, for the Serbian Matica 250,000 dinars and for the Ministry of Religion, for religious teaching, as well as for other purposes of 250,000 dinars, which is a total of 555,000 dinars, and for NGOs a billion and 904 million and 586 thousand dinars are foreseen. The difference is about a billion and 350 million dinars, more specifically a billion 349 million 586 thousand dinars. That's the issue. In most of the part for NGOs, which I find controversial, or the MPs of the SRS, although I couldn't find in the draft budget what it was all about when it came to NGOs, and I therefore expressed my doubts about the amounts of funds allocated to NGOs. Of course, we in the SRS don't mind, and as far as we're concerned, it's not disputed to single out for the Red Cross of Serbia, as one humanitarian organisation, for the Matica Serbs and the diaspora, relations with the Serbs in the diaspora, it's not at all controversial. Of course, not when it comes to the Ministry of Faith, but not the purposes that apply to improving the conditions of a priest's life, for religious teaching, it is not at all controversial. It's what's not in this bill, or if you want to be more specific and honest than me, what I couldn't find in the 2005 draft budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9360	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9361	Well, here, sir, I suppose you'll give up this amendment yourself when I explain to you what you've actually suggested. Namely, I don't blame MPs, item 424, specialized services, perhaps not clear. This is according to the statistics of public finances - payments from different divisions for different purposes. For example, science when it pays for scientific and research workers, it's at the department of science's department, it's specialized services. When it pays for culture, let's say for National Theatre, for movies, for various events, it's also specialized services in culture. Then, sport, all payments related to various events financed by the Ministry of Sports, according to the statistics of public finances also have the treatment of special services, so-called. JLF classification. If this item 424, that means that culture, science, sport, would be completely devoid of money. It's true that you'd increase the money to the pensioners, but I don't think they'd do it at all cost if all of our social activities were to lose money. As far as NGOs are concerned, indeed in the budget, in an explanation, we have done our best, as it is in the rebalancing process now, to list on three sides all institutions that have the treatment of NGOs. Among other things, you may not have known, these are also parliamentary political parties. In this budget for political parties, NGOs, such is a simple classification, 330 million stands out. You have found some of the items, plus 330 million is for parliamentary political parties, of which, due to the results in the elections, your party has the greatest share, which is the Law on political parties and regulations. There are, of course, various divisions, sports alliances, handballs, stonotenisers, judo, cycling, ice hockey, tennis, mountaineering, etc. Then there are war volunteers' associations, wartime, peacetime and military disabilities, etc. I wouldn't read all this to you. However, it is too late, but we have really tried to specify on three sides everything called public finance statistics - NGOs. There's really no mystery here. There are some NGOs in every department. In particular, political parties are under the Law on the Budgetary System of NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9362	Thank you. Just a moment, Mr. Jojic, and it is my apology, we have now consulted; that - not sufficiently transparent, immediately visible, since the term is used in the people or among all of us - for other purposes. There's an election campaign and it's really not so easy to see what it's all about, so there's a lot of understanding for this. Here you go, Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Jojic. I'm sorry about this intervention, but we're all trying to figure out what it is together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9363	Under the law, no legal act can be amended. The bill is the Budgetary System Act. In the Budgetary System Act, there is a Article 12 that says -- the expenditures are made up of, and it's exactly named by name and name, what is the expenditure, what is financed. There are no - specialized services. The first thing that needs to be clear. Again, I must warn you that we are suffering the consequences of Djelic's policy "saw a frog where the horses are wetting and she raised her leg." Well, since you're not listening to me, I guess the public will hear what's going on. In the context of specialized services, you can also see at your Anti-Corruption Council, I think it's called, in that economic classification, it's also number 424, and that's where you predicted 5 million dinars from the budget. Now, these are the means to help the Anti-Corruption Council to probably order and pay for some art, although I don't know why they need skill. And probably to make it possible to print some books. Speaking of books and the preparation of drafts and draft laws, it is mainly done by the Centre for Liberal-Democratic Studies. It's one of those stalker canals that's got a good money launderer. There is no Hiber, he is a permanent subscriber there, Gašo Knezevic occasionally, avoiding him, not always taking him, Boris Begovic, Vodanelici in all variations etc. Well, you might find it funny, but let me just say that by every project, well that was 10 or 100 pages, they take 200 to 300 grand for each project. It's those specialized services. Now, Minister, speaking of specialized services, within Article 6, then I have to remind you that there is, within the economic classification of 424 columns 3 -- budget funds, so there is 6 billion and something in this classification; and there is column 4 - expenditure from additional organ revenue. Under this formulation, you run the body's own income, but you also run donations and aid from abroad and anything that comes to the expense of that body. Of course, Mr. Radovanovic's amendment should draw attention to you and draw attention to the fact that something about these work contracts and the ordering of these special services is wrong, because it is not possible that such erosion has hit our ministries that everything should be done by someone else on the side. You know we have the cost of an interpreter over a million dinars. In order not to disrupt that structure of yours now, Mr Radovanovic suggested that those funds should be channelled into mandatory insurance funds. In order not to be so confused and to be exactly what the minister said, although there are some things that are true that he said when it comes to sports alliances, the Alliance of Persons, etc., I would ask fellow Members to take a special part of the budget, which is from page 5 to page 49, to look at the economic position of 424 and to imagine what could be financed through specialized services. They exist in the Republic institutions in two columns -- columns as funds that are collected and allocated from the budget and funds that the authorities themselves deliver on the basis of specialised services. If you feel that the full adoption of the amendment can disrupt some of the things that are probably necessary for this budget, interpret this amendment exactly the way I tried to explain this to you, so whatever is unnecessary, irrationally, get out of this position and finally get that name off the deficit that is not there at all. Take that name off, it'll be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9364	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by the MP in front of the SRS parliamentary group is an amendment that points to a serious error by our government, which suggests that funds be allocated from the budget in this way. I would point out, and you have material in front of you, but let it be known that in this draft budget law, the government predicted the use of services and goods of 41 billion 384 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if she had been a smart government and had taken care of the taxpayers and citizens of Serbia, she would have given up these funds and channeled these funds to one-time aid to pensioners and disabled people with low incomes on this basis and, on that basis, 41 billion 384 million could have been paid for four million, 598 pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this item and position - the purchase of machinery and equipment - I ask the Government what happened to those machines and equipment she bought over the years? What happened to those machines that were bought last year? What's with the equipment? Ladies and gentlemen, we need to know what equipment it is and what resistor wants the equipment, what machines it is. Please, let the government be smart once, let them buy agricultural machines and share the peasants, because 18,000 smaller tractors of the Fergusons could be bought for this amount that applies to these machines and services. Ladies and gentlemen, if there's any wisdom and brains, shall we forget that we have our citizens in front of us and there's no house where the finance minister won't put his fingers or his hand up his elbows, he's dragged his hand to his shoulder. That's why we Serbian radicals say, when we come to power, we won't buy machines and video games every year, we'll buy tractors for farmers and allow them to plow this good Serbian country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9366	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment submitted by Milovan Radovanovic, a member of the SRS, is good because it will provide the other half of the 13th pension, which the minister promised if it succeeds in privatisation. The funds to be used for that second half of the 13th pension are the funds that were on the items under the draft budget law -- specialised services. Mr. Minister tried to answer what specialized services are, but it seems that in his attempt he introduced and that the political parties were subdued under the sentence - specialized services. The economic classification for specialised services is 424 and it was for revenue from the budget of six billion 807 million, and the classification for political parties, meaning either your minister does not know the budget or does not tell the truth about this speaker, is classification 481, in section 7, and it is said - donations to NGOs - this appraisal is intended to finance the regular work of political parties whose candidates have been elected to MPs in the National Assembly. It has nothing to do with economic classification 424. Furthermore, the 82m funding is intended to fund an election campaign for MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly, funds for the work of the Union of Reserve Military Elders of three million dinars and 45m dinar funds on behalf of the funding of national councils of national minorities. So specialized services, as Mr. Minister meant, do not belong under the financing of political parties. The only goal of specialized services is specialized money laundering. This way of money laundering was started by Bozidar Djelic, later Boris Tadic, now continues Mladjan Dinkic, as the question arises as to why these fees for scientific workers are paid under the term - specialized services, when under economic classification 423 stands - services per contract. So, some money that needs to be spent, and there's a good reason for that, like the contract. Specialized services are simply projects of some imaginary needs, which may never come true, but that's why those who provide this specialized service and how they charge fat, and not to mention that these are people who were close to the previous DOS government and this new DOS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9368	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 6? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9369	There's no one from the government. They're probably not interested in this. Namely, my amendment stipulates that foreign interest payments are deleted because they are one-off figures. That's exactly 15,365,857,000 dinars. Based on what the minister considers a total budget, it is about 3.7% of the total budget. Nothing would be disputed, and this amendment has to do with the amendment of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 2 when we ask that at least further the country is not in debt by raising foreign loans to cover the deficit in the budget. Why? For the reason that we will not be able to pay off the principal and you will see here in the same article 6 - economic classification 612, namely to pay off the principal to foreign lenders we can only allocate 1,894,000, which means if we continue to pay off our principal at this rate, according to the current foreign debt state, it will take us more than 350 years. What Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says is that our goal is to pass on the current debt to our children, not only to pass on to the next seven, eight knees to some of our descendants, and the aim of the SRS is to separate more money from the budget for the return of the principal, so that over time we have to return less and more interest, and I would like someone to tell me if we have already entered into debt slavery or not, when this shows that 3.7% of the total budget is being allocated only to the service of interest to foreign lenders. These specialized services are mostly related to the ministries. It should remind the government, whose representatives are not here, that the largest number of agencies are set up as something that should help professionally the ministries, as the budget envisions their funding in a special way and what these specialised services are then, and they are also about 15 billion in total. Along with these foreign credit returns, we have virtually more than 7.5% of the entire budget of the Republic of Serbia, which in the coming years, if God doesn't leave this government, we will return in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9370	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the legislative refusal considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9371	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday I spoke about the amendments I submitted to the members of the 6th and 7th draft budget law. I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, and this amendment essentially requires doubling the funds proposed by the 2005 budget for the co-ordination body and the Coordination Centre, i.e. increasing funds for users in Kosovo and Metohija and in southern Serbia. I believe that I have been able to present to you about what is important and why the funds proposed are absolutely insufficient for the basic needs that our citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia have, and what is essentially due to the state to provide them with. However, unfortunately yesterday, the minister and I disagreed to the extent necessary, but I must say that in the additional talks that have been held today, above all between the president of the Coordination Centre, the prime minister of Serbia and the finance minister, we have managed to find a compromise, i.e. the prime minister and the finance minister, committed to somehow replace the funds needed from a special fund that will be educated, as well as from the 2004 and 2005 budget reserves. Wanting to believe those guarantees and that promise, I'm withdrawing the amendments to the article. 6th and 7th in connection with the duplication of funds for the Coordination Body and the Coordination Centre. Once again, I call on the prime minister and the minister to keep that promise and also to call on ministers, whose divisions have the resources for Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia, to make sure that these funds get to the end users, because they need to put a bag of money in every place in Kosovo and Metohija, I don't think you would be wrong and not give too much. On the other hand, Mr. Labus said tonight saying that we may not be able to pay back a large part of our debt with this budget, but that at least we can do anything to make these debts bigger. By handling the same logic, I call on the finance minister that if he can't already provide all the necessary funds for users in Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia, he should at least make an effort not to make those funds less than they were in previous years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9372	Since the amendment has been withdrawn, we're moving on to the next one. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9373	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that we discussed this amendment in some way at the beginning of the debate on amendments. So this amendment, which the Government does not accept, in the sense of accepting to vote or to be an integral part of this law, refers to that proposal of the SAA, as well as the amendment, to compensate for a huge backlog for farmers' pensions which are now, as is known, regardless of what it says in Law 20.5, more precisely 22 months late. The proposal, with three billion in fact, ensures that 18 months of pensions are reduced to the back of December 2000, more specifically for farmers in 2005. They're minimal, small, 2,000, but the peasants are happy to receive the 2,000. If they were to receive 18 months, then the late December 31st 2005 would be another 18 months. I'm not looking for analizing the backlog, I'm looking for a simple reduction in that backlog. Of course, here we heard the minister's explanation that he was actually for the idea, to accept the idea, that in some way he had committed himself to doing everything if there was any revenue from privatisation to provide these six additional pensions, besides 12 regular ones, for farmers. We all have to trust the minister, and of course next year we have the opportunity to monitor the realization, and the minister needs to be verified by the citizens. If it's okay with me, I hope he doesn't get along with the peasants, and he'll keep his promise, and he'll take care of it. Make sure it's from the Privatization Fund. If so, I will withdraw the amendment because I do not want to vote against the peasants. If the amendment remains and you vote against it because the minister is asking, I will understand that you are voting against the peasants. Since I don't want to, I will withdraw the amendment, with the minister's promise to provide an additional six pensions for the peasants in 2005. That's three billion extras for this 11 billion as planned, and that's what I thank the minister for. I thank you for another piece of information that we received, which is that I requested for budget rebalancing, as one of the conditions of the SAA asked us to get the exact number of employees in the state administration in 31.12.2000 compared to 31.12.2003. I asked that we get it for every municipality, for every local self-government, to see how much the tax burden of Serbian citizens is on the basis of an increased number of employees, and I claimed it was a few tens of thousands of people. We also received thanks for that part, and this minister still owes for local self-government, and we know that in some municipalities DOS or DS has employed two or three times as much as before. This data shows that over three thousand people have been employed in government cabinets for three years, from eight thousand to eleven thousand and something, along with those thousands of Socialists who were expelled in 2001. So I'm talking about ministries and government institutions. Four thousand received. So one socialist was worth four DOSs, i.e. DS, because this administration is no better. It's not more effective than the previous one. That means every socialist is worth four. I am pleased, but I am not satisfied that the number of employees has been increased, so I hope that the minister and that promise will be fulfilled, and those who, through the DS, have been accepted by the political party, and not by the fact that they are experts, that they will reduce the number of employees in the administration for that number, so it would be good to have that savings belonged to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, because they are mostly due, in the end of the day, that many crises at the time of sanctions have passed. Therefore, in the hope that the minister will keep his promise, I also withdraw that first amendment, both this second and this third, because they are bound. They're all tied to 18 farmers' pensions next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9374	Since this amendment has been withdrawn, we move on to the next one. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9375	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. Namely, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a number of amendments to the 2005 draft budget law. In Article 6, EC 49 - reserve, and EC 499 are deleted, and in EC 621, in column 3, the amount of 2,785.700,000 dinars is replaced by 4,854,703,000 dinars and the amount of 3,012.199.000 dinars is replaced by 5,081,202,000 dinars. Reason: The deficit budget should not have a reserve, so the funds provided for the budget reserve should be used in the Republic of Serbia Development Fund and export lending. So, the SRS thinks this is the best solution. We propose amendments and try to fix this draft budget, to be in the interest of Serbian citizens. Apparently, the government of the Republic of Serbia has designed a budget for 2005, which is not only not developmental, it is exactly the opposite of what you said in the election campaign. You predict an increase in bureaucratic apparatus, restrictions and hundreds of thousands of layoffs in public enterprises, so-called. restructuring of public enterprises, such as rail, EPS, oil industry. So, with this budget, Serbian citizens should know that more unemployed workers follow, even more poverty and poverty in Serbia. It is likely to be the privileged president of the Republic of Boris Tadic and the DS, supported by this government of yours that it can do whatever it wants in this country, whatever comes to mind. The SRS will fight by all means, democratic means and by this speaker, to explain to Serbian citizens the situation on the country's economic plan. If it goes on like this, there's gonna be a lot of people out of work. That's what this budget is all about. You promised in the election campaign that you would employ 500,000 people, and with this proposal for the 2005 budget, you propose to this assembly to adopt a budget that will wrap Serbia in black next year. Where are these higher salaries for Serbian citizens, where are these new jobs? We from the SRS will vote against the budget you have proposed, because we believe that this budget is not in the interest of Serbian citizens. I hope, after coming to the power of the SRS, that the SRS will be able to correct everything you do to your own country in a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9376	Anybody else answer for a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9377	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is good and this assembly should accept it. First, it is not logical that the budget in the deficit has a budget reserve, and that the deficit is compensated by loans from domestic and foreign banks, so that someone in some context in the Republic of Serbia's budget will keep the money. This amendment provides for the two billion dinar deficit to be transferred to the EC 621, which is to the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund and export lending. In addition to this economic situation and technology, in which our economy is, there is a number of companies that can acquire a place on the foreign market with their products and services, but they have a chronic problem, and that is a lack of money to start any project or any business. Even the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry do not help certain companies, where it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ensure that one of our companies, reputed, is proven in its earlier work and existence, to do some work. In the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we have the funds that we can use, and not as some here have asked for Nebojsa Covic, despite the 2.250,000 that will receive his Coordination Centre, to give another 2,000 million from the budget reserves, to pay, under the pretext that he pays hotel accommodation to the "Return" coalition MPs, who have salaries of 10,000 euros, because they work in parliament under the occupation authority in Kosovo and Metohija. To them Serbian citizens to pay hotel and other accommodations or to pay the FMP players on their journeys, not to have that money for, as it was supposed to be, that Serbs who were displaced from Kosovo and Metohija return. That the money was not spent on purpose, it also says that Nebojsa Covic in Kosovo and Metohija spent around 100.000 dinars without even returning 10 Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9378	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9379	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to which it is concerned, has been filed completely legitimately, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, I would argue with one part of his reasoning and offer different sources than the amendments' applicants have said. There is no serious government, not at the level of local self-government, not in cities, and especially not at the level of the state, which would agree to compose the budget so that there is no reserve, whether the budget is balanced or not and whether this deficit is shown in a way that is in this budget or in some other way. So there are simply situations, such as the elemental disasters, such as major epidemics, such as the country's security, such as many other things that do not suffer from the composition to create budget rebalances for a particular situation, but it is necessary to have a permanent or current budget reserve. Now, under the new law, it can't do that anymore, but anyway, there's a reserve where they draw funds for strict purposes, which I was talking about here. I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accept this amendment to the SRS, but find a source on the other side. In 2002. The public company PTT traffic from Serbia under the lease contract bought 550 car companies Fiat brand "punto", damage to "octavia" and "felicia" and Opel Astra. These cars completely against the law have been distributed to their loved ones, employed by this working organization, under one contract of an agreement between PTT and employees of these companies, they have been effectively increased by wages for the height of the war on the lease, and thus these 550 employees in PTT and Telekom, neither guilty nor liable, have become practically owners of these cars, with the post paying for registration, buying gasoline and everything else necessary, until the lease agreement expires. So, I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia assigns the Management Board of the PTT Public Enterprise to examine precisely what it is, to sell these cars at auction, to use these funds to balance this part of the budget under the SRS amendment. And to charge out of these 550 workers a fee to rent these cars, which they've been illegally using for two and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9380	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, he's not here. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, he's not here. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Petkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9381	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no minister present in the hall, and in his presentation he was a little sharp, so he went back a little bit in the old days, so I had a question for him, too, but I'm really sorry he didn't have to explain to me how he got into the National Bank on October 6th, from whom he received the National Bank, what he found there, etc. But there will be opportunities to discuss it with the minister when he is present. In Article 6, the economic classification 49 - reserve and 499 - appropriations of the budget reserve of 2,069.003.000 are replaced by 1,069.003.000. Given that the budget is planned with higher income spending, there is not much money to be planned for the budget reserve, because there will be no sufficient money for all who are planned to finance from the budget anyway. I have suggested that budget reserves be reduced by one billion and this money is used for the following purposes: eight hundred million dinars be transferred to the Republic Directorate for the construction of roads in undeveloped municipalities, where the municipalities of Merošin, Srljig, Gajin Han, Doljevac, Žitoraj and Kursumli, I think there are 29 in Serbia. Why am I suggesting this? Because the roads in undeveloped municipalities are in a catastrophic state, and undeveloped municipalities from their own budget, which is small, cannot provide money to survive, are found by what dinar to patch up a hole in worn-out paved roads, which were worked twenty or thirty years ago, in those good old times. They're already maimed, so it has to start with repairs, and you don't know what to fix sooner. There are plenty of villages in these municipalities that have no asphalt road to the village, and no bus ride. As a result, the population is moving from village to city, only nursing households and unprocessed ornanica remain. Also, I propose that 200m from the budget reserve be transferred to the Serbia Water Directorate, and the Water Directorate to direct the 200m funds to build a water factory in Krajkovica dam in Merošin municipality. The dam on the Krajkovic River was done and completed 25 years ago and is owned by Serbia's pipeline. The Water Directorate allocated some funds five years ago and the first phase of the construction site was built and that is how it stands. Four thousand households in the municipality are without drinking water. Citizens drink the wrong water by gripping it with various abandoned Polish wells, which serve to irrigate the gardens, while on the other hand there is a full dam with water, because the state, i.e. certain ministries will not help, and the municipality is unable to do so on its own. Every year we submit orderly requests to the Water Directorate with the necessary documentation, from projects to all the necessary consent, and therefore I have suggested that we resolve this issue of vital importance for the citizens of the municipalities in this way. That is why I ask all MPs, regardless of which parties they are from, to vote in favour of this amendment, because drinking water is of vital importance and it does not know the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9382	I thank the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian Radicals MP Milorad Mircic asked for a split of 2 - function 110 - in article 7, economic classification 422, "costs of travel", amounting to 35,000 thousand replacements of 10,000. Namely, it is our intention to save some money for the citizens of Serbia, and it is about the estimated travel costs for the President of the Republic. We don't mind, some man travels as much as possible, we'd like to represent a policy different, to represent the interests of Serbian citizens, to do what he promised the people and citizens of Serbia in the election campaign, but what's more important for us is the fact that Serbian citizens want to have more money for themselves, that money can be spent in a different way, that they see some benefit, some benefit, any benefit, any benefit, not like today that individual state authorities and the state administration of corruption, travel everywhere they arrive, where the results are no worse than they ever went on those trips. That is why we think that no one should be left with money for personal promotion, but that it must be taken care of exclusively the interests of Serbian citizens. That 25 million is not God knows what kind of money given the overall state budget, but it is also how big money when you can hire a few dozen people, that it can feed a few dozen families. This is what is very important for Serbia and it is money that we can use in an unmatched way. What was the meaning of individual visits? What will be the meaning of individual visits? I went, were the extraordinary results of this visit, all of us support us, but you Serbian citizens and you political opponents are not good, because some of them are extremists, others are not even who we are, and what we finally get as a result: nothing, except the fact that much more money, much more money is spent on Serbian citizens. This is what we are trying to prevent and I am convinced that this amendment will come to the understanding of most MPs, because we have heard from the minister that the necessary savings are necessary, this should be a restrictive budget, a budget that will allow rational spending of financial resources, those financial resources that will not be wasted in vain. I want to ask you to show on this case how and how we can contribute to further savings, further rationalization and how we can make those who think they're untouchable. Last night, the president of the Republic allowed himself on a TV show to say -- I don't know how much there is in the budget, that doesn't matter. Who knows if he doesn't want to know how much he has in his budget division. Who needs to know who took care of it. They didn't even know about these cars, because tonight I'm falsely accused by Caesar's General Secretariat, who is telling the nation that I've deceived someone, and I'm not. Is that so, Mr. Angelkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9384	You are a People's Messenger, you have the right to state whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9385	Thank you for your protection, Mr. Angelkovic. I have the right to state what I want, but I'm telling the truth, and that's what hurt Caesar and his cabinet. Now, I would just ask the MPs in the National Assembly to remember the amendments we're talking about, to record somewhere which are amendments they want to support, because I hope it doesn't go according to that automation, how it usually happens. If it is an amendment to the opposition, we will not vote, if it is the amendment of the government, then we will, because I think this is something that is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. We wouldn't suggest such an amendment if that wasn't the case, and in the end, we'll benefit much more. A man will start to deal with other things, start thinking about how citizens live, and he will realize that it is not possible for 100 per cent to increase his fleet by new vehicles, that it is not the only problem for Serbian citizens who will be the result of the game to be Real-Partizan or Star-Barcelona, however, but that Serbia has much bigger problems. That those hungry, naked, barefoot, those addressed in the election campaign, promising new jobs, higher wages and higher pensions, finally security. This is the amendment to which you will show, I invite you Minister Dinkic to accept him, that you really want budget savings, that you really want restrictions and that you want a fair relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9386	Mr. Wolf, you have a business obligation to speak for five minutes, and now it's six.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9387	I was just about to commend you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9388	I'm still tolerated, but just to remind you of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Zoran Krasic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9389	I still have to maintain that continuity. So DOS is DOS, whether with plus or minus, but that's a fact. Section 2 contains an economic classification of 422, travel expenses of the President of the Republic, 35 million dinars from the budget. Now let's see what it looks like in time and space. It's got to be compared to something. Professional service of the National Assembly for 2005 million dinars travel costs. If we compare, let's see what happens to the government. The government, which has a president, a vice president, a minister, etc. Same economic classification 422, 21 million. Now that the monetary amounts are compared, there is an expression of some difference in value in some quality. Is there a bigger light that travels, so you need bigger money, or is it some special kind of transport, or maybe the golden carriages will be, we don't have an explanation. However, we have an explanation for why the amendment is not accepted. This DOS government plus-minus has written – the amendment is rejected for the reasons provided for in a member of the Rules of Procedure which found that the amendment with offensive content is rejected. The amendment, which Mr. Mircic wrote, leaves the president with 10 million to travel, and the other 25 are being deployed to the Ministry of Finance, 10 to give some donation and some transfer and to the Ministry of Economy to strengthen the Fund for Development. What's offensive about that? If it is offensive what it says in the explanation, it is inappropriate to foresee this kind of means for the personal promotion of Boris Tadic. What's not true? It's all true. And his DS, he built a new government there, not a shadow government, but a government in the presidency. His advisor is the president of the Chamber of Commerce, another advisor to some former idol, running counsellor to Leon Cohen, he was once yours and theirs, who knows whose is more. Mine's not, I'm sure. There are other advisors. We'll come to the second amendment where you predicted by contract to pay them off. Maybe I'd have some understanding for the government if I didn't charge her. For example, the President of the Republic spins the film, needs so much money, the government has to respect the President of the Republic, its financial plan accepts as it's written, and then I count, let's just say, let's say that the government has supported that he chooses as president. Some moral obligation exists for that, but then I don't get it, he's tearing this government down. In this operation of mutual existence, both. Then I come to the conclusion that it's actually a permanent coalition. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. You're going to push your head a little bit, it's going to go through this, he's going to continue to promote himself by some lawfulness. They're gonna have a little bit of fun, and I'm absolutely sure he needs to be banned from travelling officially, because wherever he shows up there are threatened national interests. In Russia neither Putin wanted to receive it, because his fourth secretary said – and what would we hear from him when we could hear it from Bush's fifth secretary. Take care, the institution should be respected. No one is opposed to respecting the institutions, but the individual representing the institution must respect the citizens of Serbia, their electoral will, the decisions of this parliament. He cannot recommend something that is contrary to what the National Assembly has decided. After all, you've had a chance to see when it was supposed to be on the agenda, I don't think it's any wonder to you, but imagine his Democratic Party didn't listen to him either. He said you voted to resolve, to initiate the procedure, and they all voted against. Well, Serbian citizens need to know, so there's no difference. When DOS is said to be the government, and the President of the Republic, and the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies, it's all DOS. It's all DOS. You're all distracting us here with economic and budgetary classifications. That won't work. And the greater forces fell before the radicals. You will be power until the moment the radicals get angry and decide to take you down. Tadic can't take you down. We can take you down. Take care of that. But we don't have much patience to participate in your personnel vans either. We don't have, for God's sake, patience. Take care of what you do. If you are unable to defend yourself from Tadic, put on that proposal to call him off.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9390	Here's a word from the People's MP, Ostora Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first met Boris Tadic and saw live here in this House. He seemed like a modest man to me. He seemed like a modest man to me. From now on, so many cars, so many wonders. What happened to that man I don't know. Here, from this point on, I'm ordering our president of the Serbian state to take a walk one morning at seven o'clock under the green market, here at the Green Wreath, to see that there are 15 people on each container. Fifteen people are on a container each. Well, how is he not ashamed? Here, I'd be ashamed to be in his shoes, buying eight cars. Well, it's a disgrace to Serbia. That's a shame, one. Shame on him, here I tell him from this place here - shame on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9392	The amendment refers to travel, not vehicles. Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9393	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment should be accepted, because with this amendment we can... (President: Please silence your enthusiasm. )......................................................................................................... In part, to keep the promises of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, who gave Serbian citizens during the election campaign. This amendment provides that 35 million dinar funds intended for travel, which means a little less than 100,000 a day, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia should spend on its travels, cut by 25 million, and 15 million to transfer to the Agricultural Pensions Fund, because in the election campaign and promised that agricultural pensions would be more regular and larger, and 10 million dinars to transfer...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9394	I only ask the MPs of the SRS to silence the enthusiasm of the previous discussion, to listen to their MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9395	And 10 million to be transferred to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, because there that money will be used to create new jobs, because it is one of the pre-election promises made by Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic and any -- a reduction in the number of unemployed. The question now arises - and why it needs 35 million dinars, as the president of the Republic of Serbia should share the fate of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What will white Schengen visas for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they have no money, and then the president of the Republic of Serbia, who has promised them white Schengen visas, so both Bulgarians and Romanians have introduced visas, should not travel so much. What and the people's money, according to its logic, when they can't get a white Schengen visa, and that's how we spin round, and there's no white Schengen visas, and Mr. Boris Tadic is a diplomatic passport, and in the white world. So there's something in the white world that at least he's smart enough to do for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, but he's messing up. A man goes to the U.S., sees President Bush, gets a fifth secretary to do what needs to be done, angers Mr. President Boris Tadic and supports John Keri in his election campaign. And then you win George Bush Jr. What do you think now that this so open support has been from Mr. President Boris Tadic to John Keri, what policy will now be run by the US administration towards the Republic of Serbia. Maybe Mr. President of the Republic did it because he didn't get so much open support from George Bush when he went to the second round with Tomislav Nikolic, and from the US administration, so he was out of revenge for George Bush losing the election to support John Kerri. He also humiliated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Spain, when the athletes of the Republic of Serbia were not allowed to, because some players tattooed Draž Mihajlovic on hand, played in Croatia, and received from Real Madrid an honorary uniform with number 12. And it is not even the basic one, the least that the President of the Republic of Serbia can do, and it is that on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, because by the Constitution the Republic of Serbia represents its president, Croatia is giving a protest. Therefore, Mr. Tadic should sit at home, spend these ten million dinars by working with workers who have lost their jobs by taking them down with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9396	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No). The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9397	Thank you. Minister, I don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment. This is an amendment that protects the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. This is an amendment that protects the dignity of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is an amendment that would be accepted in every country on planet Earth. And here, I'm going to explain to you why that is. This amendment proposes to reroute funds from heading 2nd position 423, such as contracts and economic classification 512 — machinery and equipment. Section 2 refers to that group 110, function 110, unnecessarily related to the President of the Republic. Is it possible for the President of America to be financed by funds from abroad? Is it possible? What would happen, say, in Russia, split up -- President Putin, the economic classification of equipment, and then say -- donation from abroad to President Putin. He'd say - please don't tell anyone this is even offered. It's a disgrace to the Russian people. Please, it's another thing which is the amount of funds he receives from abroad of three million dinars. That's how cheap our president is. For less than 40,000 euros, everything will sell if necessary. To get only those three million from abroad. I know the government's had a hard time. She got his financial plan, so where to piss off the lion. They can't piss off the lion. Come on, put that on, it's a shame and a shame. I don't understand why the President of the Republic must have equipment in his office, when this is added together, ten million, but also his service that serves him also needs to have equipment. That equipment needs to come out 10 million. Services under contract in first office 110, means only for him - 23 million and 200 000 from the budget and two million and 600,000 from international organisations. So he pays for every piece of advice, pro form. It's for the Democratic Party, you all know that. You see, and his service, these 30 workers, and they have contracts and there's 10 million again. He's more expensive himself than any government we've ever had. What did we do? We suggested that it move from there, because it's a disgrace for the state to have a president who's being financed by abroad. If the president's funding abroad, it's not our president. For the sovereignty of a single country, the most important economic sovereignty is with regard to the Authority. One of the criteria for judicial independence is that the state provides funds for its judiciary. So the state should also provide funds for its president. However, this is the representative president, he's been acting representatively, and what he's saying, it doesn't matter, it's long since anyone's listened. We've channeled these funds. Where? We've directed it to the Republic Bureau of Statistics. They need that equipment. In the second amendment, you'll see, we've directed these funds towards the Ministry of Education for High Schools, so high schools can provide some computers for that money. So, if the government is not allowed to accept this amendment, I urge all MPs to reconsider a little bit, would you like their president to finance abroad? If that president is financed abroad, then he is not funded for the interests of these citizens, but for his own interests. What are their interests, we're going to have to make some survey committees, see what the president says. That's why it would be good to adopt this amendment, and I think the government had to look at the Constitution and the law and submit the amendment itself and sort this out, because this is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9398	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is Dusan Petrovichgeli a word? He won't, because he's not here. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivadin Lekic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9399	You government people have no right under the Constitution and the law to finance the Democratic Party. You have no right, and to tell you the truth, I'm thinking of filing a criminal report if it goes through a budget like this. Under Section 2, the Democratic Party is in office 133. There are all counselors and experts, Djelic's caliber. Three years from now, you can't fix what they did. That's why you have a small discount. It's hardly anyone can fix Djelic, he fell off Mars and started making up stuff here. You've predicted something here that you haven't predicted for any organ. What do we take as a criterion - the number of employees, the importance of work, the functions they perform, the jurisdiction? Any criteria we take, we'll come to the conclusion that you've applied something here compared to 11,000. When you look at what it stands across the street, which messages come from there, it is a centre for mental manipulation, a centre for development and maintenance of hatred in Serbia and the Serb people. It's this office across the street. There's a yellow one, I don't know what it's called, in their circles it's supposed to be the future Prime Minister, a Gilas, I know it's yellow. You have no right to fund it. You don't have the right to put this on us so the people think they're funding their president. He's not funding his president. He is funding the president of the Democratic Party thanks to this and this government that did not have the courage to say no. You didn't have the guts to tell him no, you can't fund this. To understand that a little bit better, I'm going to tell you that what you wrote in the budget, in Section 2, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned, is worse than those same Democrats wrote in the Law on the financing of political parties. When you came to be a minister, you grabbed the head of what was written in that law, and they grabbed the head and all the representatives of the parties when they needed to interpret what someone had come up with and wrote. Whoever wrote that bill, who never participated in the elections, is now a consultant across the street. It is the same group of people who have just crossed the road and are from there playing the parallel government, and it is a factor of instability in Serbia. It can't be financed, it can't be financed. Being president of the Republic doesn't mean he's untouchable. We're the Republic, that means they're all touchable. That means everyone has to respect the law. This means that everyone has to respect voters, respect citizens and have to take care of the rights of all citizens. What Mr. Tadic has problems, and he has big problems, he said, when he is elected president of the Republic, no one will be delivered to The Hague, he will be tried here. Of course, there's nothing left of it. Last night he invented and said -- those who called not to go to the vote in Kosovo and Metohija allowed Haradinaj to be president, as if the Shiptars didn't care whether Serbs would vote or not, they would push their own people out, but he must do mental manipulation, he must be a grain of discord. When political stability is reached here on some issue, when political life is brought down to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, then media and mental manipulations are on the move, then the entire camera of underpaid journalists, agencies and that centre that is moving, not against you in power, not against us from the opposition, but against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why they left the session yesterday. If you noticed, by amendment of Dusan Petrovic, they say there is little for them. No one has ever made a deal with the Democrats. And if you adopt them all, they'll fool you again. I warn you, accept the amendment, I'll write you criminal charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9400	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9401	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's Office is a para-state body. The National Office has these days devised, financed and media-based all that concerns the humiliation of the People's Parliaments of the National Assembly. That's where all those headlines are made that identify the people's messengers with the cattle. It was written there and released in the journal "Scandal" text, my education does not allow me to quote the title of that text, you know what this is about. The office, with Mr. Gilas and others, needs to ensure everything necessary to continue to collapse institutions in Serbia. They have the legitimate right to want it and to demand it, and we have the obligation to say that we understand what they are doing and to tell the citizens of Serbia what it is for. During the election campaign, Mr. Boris Tadic, we can bring videos, his election staff and he have personally said several times that there will be no need for new funding to finance the work of the National Office and that the National Office will have only the obligation to be the shoulder to cry to those citizens whose state authorities for any reason cannot help, will not understand them, understand them, etc. That was one story. We today have a very concrete action which, I dare say, is nationally subversive and that is why it is important that every day from this pay phone we explain to people what this is about. The Democratic Party has had the opportunity to face argument here. Obviously she's either scared or she's got other calculations, that's their thing, but each of us needs to be able to explain what this company's intention is, what these people are doing, who they represent, but they shouldn't be doing it with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9402	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9403	Honorable MPs, the macroeconomic budget, as proposed, will not lead to stability or economic growth, because it is not developmental. It is neither social, it will not reduce public spending, and this will ensure neither economic growth nor the stability of public finances. This way, the proposed budget will not affect the country's macroeconomic stability. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, Section 5, which I suggest that Chapter 5.1 of function 110 be deleted. Therefore, Chapter 5.1 of function 110 provides for the office's costs for media co-operation and for a total of 30,666,000 dinars. I believe that this head should be deleted because these tasks must and should be done by the Secretary-General of the Republic of Serbia and by no means a special authority with the Serbian Government, as costs are thus directly increased, and hence the budget deficit, which inevitably creates economic instability on the macroeconomic plan. That is why I propose that you adopt this amendment, because it is established and good and the adoption of it reduces costs and budget deficits.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9404	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which has several divisions. Since my amendment covers more divisions for various purposes, I will try to explain division 7 through one amendment and divide 10. Section 5.1 of Article 7 provides for funding for the government's office for media co-operation. 30 million dinars are scheduled. Funding a media co-operation office is unnecessary and without grounds. The government has a secretary, and many ministries have their own media co-operation portfolios, which means that in this way someone is not doing his job: the office or the ministry's spokesmans. So far, the practice of working with the office and the media is not good co-operation, so giving out money for these purposes is a waste of money. The projected funds for the 30m media co-operation office should be transferred to the Agricultural Pensions Fund. I know these funds aren't enough, but if more funds are taken away in multiple divisions that are unnecessarily planned, funds can be provided for the payment of the leftover agricultural pensions. No serious host in Serbia, if he has debts to others, plans anything until he repays, and the finance minister has all the money, only leaves that he still owes only to farmers for pensions. If it's from the minister, it's a lot. Article 7 of Section 7 provides for funding for specialised services and 342 million are planned at the Ministry of Finance. My proposal would have left 42 million for these purposes. I suggest that 300 million funds be transferred for economic development to underdeveloped municipalities. Why just for the development of the economy? Because there is no business in these areas, because there are chains and locks on companies. They have to provide funds for the removal of chains and locks, because if this government won't do it, then Karic will come, because he knows it only takes off when it's a campaign. I have to say that too, because I have an obligation from the citizens who asked me, they're not thrilled when certain speakers, or MPs, come out for this pay phone out of a joke and cry over the fate of peasants and workers, and they don't do anything. They got flats from the state, they live well in Belgrade, they walk around the Prince Michael, and when they reach the pay phones, then they start complaining about peasants and workers. It's like when I'm hungry, and you take it, and you draw me bread, and you don't live on cartoon bread, it's enough to give me one piece. My impression is that a lot of people around here are just drawing bread. I hope we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9406	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9407	We will also support the previous amendment of SPS representatives and expect them to vote for budget cuts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that, if accepted, would save the funding of 32,495,000. It is about those funds that are defined for the European Union's accession office, and that there are no confusions and accusations, which is primarily because of the fact that we have the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. Now to ask someone in Serbia if they know the name and name of that minister, no one will live to tell you that. It's about Mr. Parivodic, whom we recently elected. We don't know what a man does, how he does, what his job is, but we see that we need to set up another 33 million for a special office. If it is already strategic, the essential commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, then why is the ministry not doing its job? If that is true, it would probably be normal, logical, reasonable that the ministry is focusing all its activities on joining the European Union, accepting their legal standards, principles and methods of action, so we do not need any office. This way we have one ministry, and we have the same ministry at the confederal or unionistic level, whatever you want. Now we have a special office. It always reminds me of something that needs to be used to launder money, to be completely honest, because no one living can understand who needs it and why it needs it. On the other hand, we have a public statement from the European Commission, which said in 2012 it will think about Serbia. I don't understand what this is about. Are we, like, moving faster thanks to that office? Everybody laughs. No one who believes or thinks it is necessary is needed to protect someone’s petty political and material interests. That's all it's about. That's why the state has to spend 33 million. If that's not true, let the Ministry of Economic Relations do it with abroad. They will not develop economic relations with Antarctica and the Arctic. Of course their first partner will be, as the parrots all repeat, the European Union. Then what's this office doing? Just to get somebody to take some money. You see, the word Europe lately, when I say lately, I mean for a few years, has become a paradigm and a metaphor for something that needs to be shine, greatness, beauty for our people. Great. Is that what we got, is that what we're gonna get? No, we're not, and it's obvious we won't. So it would be good to stop using something like a fake carrot for Serbian citizens, who are constantly told -- wait a little longer, by 2005, we'll be in Europe, by 2007, so we're told by the previous government. Now they're already telling us we're not going to do it in 2012 because they won't think about us until then. There are some who say they want people overnight. This is what people who are in power today and at the confederal level of the state union and in the Republic of Serbia say. Such unserious behaviour cannot and must not be accepted, because they speak of those people who would only see another Serbian citizen in The Hague without getting any promise, that they have nothing black on white that other Serbian citizens will be better. No one thinks why we haven't taken advantage of all the possibilities of co-operation with all the other countries. No one thinks why and how we are not able to export something to the European Union countries, not just import. We're importing pork from Brazil. It is not the European Union, but it is much further than the European Union. We import apples from the European Union, and our apples per kilogram go down all over Serbia. It's a simple calculation and every farmer in Serbia is able to calculate it. That's why we've had enough of that big demagogy -- we're about to get there, so we're gonna make another office. We're expecting some agency soon. There's little office. There must be, as well as for environmental protection, a commission, ministry, agencies, offices and all to take away several dozen million citizens of Serbia. Can anyone explain to me why the money is being taken here for the citizens of Serbia? No one lives knows. Why isn't the Ministry of Economic Relations doing this with abroad? If he's not already doing it on the confederal level, why isn't he doing it on the republican level, what's his other job? There's no rational answer to that. It has nothing to do with the definition of citizens, nor with the definition of politicians, nor with anything, but only with saving and rational spending of money. I fear that in this way we are merely showing how and how not interested we are in telling Serbian citizens essentially that we want savings and that we want to worry about their money. Since Mr. Minister was talking today about the Lustration Commission, that, while it exists, they must finance it by law, it does not say anywhere that they must finance it with 200,000 for travel costs and 200,000 for contracts. What 200 grand would go for, what makes no one alive know. Who's traveling? What's that face that travels? Where's he going? What's that face doing? He's digging into the ground and waiting, like in the story of the Emperor of Troyan's goat ears, to get something out. People's money is being spent, citizens' money is being spent. If someone else said that this serves to coordinate what's on the confederal level and this on the republican, people, it would really be the height of cynicism and the peak of hypocrisy. I wish no one would think of saying that. Then let's remove all these organs, so we have one ministry at the republican level, that will regulate everything in terms of economy and economy, and that we no longer worry about who will and how much money Serbia's citizens will take. Serbian citizens and their money are the most important and nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9408	I thank Mr. Wolfich for his understanding of these three minutes of overruns. Here you are, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9409	Of course, from this amendment malice can interpret that someone advocates joining the European Union. I'm sure he doesn't think so and the Proposer of this amendment means neither the SRS nor, of course, the SPS. I have repeatedly spoken of the issue of joining the European Union and European integration as not a matter of political decision, but of harmonising our legislation, our further economic development. Of course, in this sense, the SPS will do everything and will vote on any proposal that goes towards harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, because the legislation that existed in the past three years is contrary to European Union legislation, so it was possible for the former Justice Minister Vladan Batic to advocate the introduction of a death penalty, at the same time as the death penalty is lifted throughout Europe, with a theory to introduce a short death penalty, to kill these political opponents at speed, and then we will adhere to European standards. I didn't answer just for this. I'm sorry I wasn't in the O.R. earlier, but I had to go out because they informed me that under the term "emergency" all domestic agencies had reported a very urgent and very important news, and the news reads, please listen carefully, that President Tadic's cabinet had established communications with Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet after 72 hours. The tragedy is that in our country it's central news. I hope the secretaries Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic have established communication. What kind of communication is that between the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic that should depend on the fate of a country and a nation? Boris Tadic said the country's security, state and national interest, has been compromised due to the interruption of communication. And no national and state interests were threatened when Boris Tadic, without communication with the cabinet of Vojislav Kostunica and Predrag Markovic's cabinet, and the cabinets of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, decided to invite Serbs to go to the Kosovo elections. It's tragic, unfortunately, that's the central news in our media. It is tragic that it is announced by the cabinet of the president of the Republic of Serbia -- that communication has finally been established between the cabinets of Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica. It's really easier for us now. I hope they're not at risk of national state interests, more than they were this morning. Perhaps one of these 78 people working in the president's office, or in President Tadic's office, and in the professional service and in the national office, there are 48 plus 30, so I hope someone will establish communication with 100 and some people working with the government of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to tell you this, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, together with the MPs and along with professional services, has four times as many employees as the cabinet of Boris Tadic. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has 250 MPs, has professional services, millions voted for 250 MPs, Boris Tadic is alone. Therefore, we absolutely support those amendments that go towards the restriction of those privileges that Boris Tadic, the president of Serbia, who criticises others for alleged privileges, gives himself privileges and gives his party privileges through what goes into the budget. That is why I want to say in the end this time, as regards communication between Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, we are really very pleased about this act, the re-establishment of communication. I don't know if the ties were broken, and I don't know what they had to say to each other, except Boris Tadic told Kostunica that he stole one MP, this one to tell him that he didn't make it and that he paid for nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9410	I thank Mr. Dacic. I hope that after this news that communication has been established, citizens can sleep peacefully, but we have to keep working. Therefore, the People's MP, Mr. Wolf, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know about others, but I've been in the National Assembly for more than 16.5 hours, so I guess some of you won't mind if we go too far, and I hope the citizens of Serbia do. Namely, I don't need to justify myself to anyone and explain to someone what someone is going to say, and there's Mr. Dacic here right, and so he can interpret any amendment. Our amendments are based on what we think is the interests of Serbian citizens. We think it is the interest of Serbian citizens to spend 35 million on opening up some new jobs, which someone will get higher salaries or higher pensions, not by forming fictitious agencies, offices, commissions and various other wonders that will serve to launder money to certain political powers, because there are neither hungry nor naked nor bare. That's what the citizens of Serbia know and that's what we asked of this government of the Republic of Serbia. I have to admit that I wasn't particularly interested in the news of the establishment or termination of communication at the relations of the President of the Republic's cabinet - the cabinet of the Prime Minister, because when I listen to it, the right to tell you, sometimes I feel that in our state bodies, there is little who comes to him completely clean, but what to do. It is our destiny to look and I think that what must be the interest of all Serbian citizens, the team should only be managed. My questions about commissions, agencies and offices, which spend 738 million in total; it is not thorough and detailed by the minister, it is said, there are in many countries similar offices, similar agencies that spend and more money, exist. They exist somewhere and exist in far richer societies. What we need to know, is that we have a poor society, that our people are looking to live incomparably better, to live much different than today and people are looking for change, and what we all have, this multiple agency, the office, everything else, is actually a fundamental source of corruption. Everyone wants to go over the bread, they all want to be somewhere where they're going to have safe incomes, where they don't risk anything, where little they do, where little they answer for or almost nothing, and money always as much as you want. That's why those who work, who get up in the morning or Monday morning, five or six, go to work, go to factories, go to private jobs, go to the field, those people have to make money and for them to finally get their salaries, their receipts and their pensions. I just want to tell the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are not asking any MP groups to support our amendments concerning an institution. We are asking you to vote against the budget and I expect it from most MPs. It seems to me that the SRS will be the only one in the opposition order that will stand up to the authorities, but what should we do? It is our job to tell people what we think about the budget, what we think about what the government is doing, what we think about what the President of the Republic is doing, and I am confident that the citizens of Serbia will understand that. I'm convinced because we're talking about this, people know it's the sources of corruption, and Serbian citizens are hungry for change, people want to change something, not every day the news headlines are the same. Here you take money or there you take money. Let people one day wait for this year not to be, take the money here and take the money there. One day, here's some money for the citizens of Serbia, so they can get what they deserve with their honest work. So what they earned in the end line, because they didn't steal anything from anyone or take it from anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9412	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic. A moment ago, the minister was not there, I withdrew the previous two, and I will withdraw this amendment, with the minister's promise to do everything possible to provide additional funds for the farmer's pensions, to take 18 instead of 12. But I came out, so I'm withdrawing that amendment, but I came out because I'm proposing another additional source of income to the minister. Since we will accept the SRS amendment to abolish the donation to the People's Office, which is, in fact, the People's Office to run a campaign against MPs, to channel those funds into the farmer's pension fund, and I think that would be a significant asset and that it would be fair to use that money in that direction. So, and I think that means that we should focus on this fund, at least we'll work something out about pensions and other issues. Of course, the budget will be adopted, thanks to the SPS MPs, because otherwise, there would not be these 12 pensions for peasants, and what we're up for is 18, I hope by adopting the budget and ensuring that, because there would be no such thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9414	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to reduce the grant to the RTS Public Enterprise. I believe that these funds should primarily be allocated to the users of the cash compensation. Today, in Serbia, the beneficiary of financial fees is about 50 to 60 thousand. They're very threatened and out of work, mostly after October 5th. I suggested that these funds also be used for the most vulnerable population, also through the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. Minister Dinkic, I think 2.5 billion dollars is a lot of money for RTS. We want to know how these money is spent not only in RTS as in public enterprises, but in all other public enterprises. We know that the salaries of directors of public enterprises are enormous, 150 to 200,000 dinars, maybe more. That's what he hides most of the time. We don't even know what number of RTS employees are, and we know that RTS today is under DS administration and everywhere in all institutions where the DS government is known to be a large number of employees, so in all municipalities, so in Serbia, in all municipalities, the number of employees is doubled where DS was in power, so is with state officials. When we talk about wages on RTS, first of all we think about salaries on BK Television, B92. We know that these salaries are high, and we also know that they were large transfers of journalists from one to the other television. Transfers, for example by Bojana Lekic and Olja Kovacevic, were in Serbian terms transfers such as Ronalda and Zidana to Real. So as on RTS, the transfers were, we know that a number of journalists with B92 and BK Television are now on RTS. On the other hand, it is our opinion that RTS is being abused primarily by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and that BK Television is being abused by Bogoljub Karic, so is the same situation with RTS. For example, we like to know on BK Television how Bogoljub Karic does. Karic on TV, but on other televisions he cares about the poor, while his universities are the most expensive. If you really care about poor people, why aren't those colleges free? Very often Bogoljub Karic cares for Kosovo and Metohija, and his best friends are the finances of the Kosovo Liberation Army and Metohija. On the other hand, Karic also cares about the people. His outflows are huge, and he didn't pay anything to the state from Mobtel. It even seems to me that Minister Dinkic is coming down. If we supported Dinkic for something, we supported him to get that thing to the end of the line. It seems to me that there's a way to find a later friendship everywhere. A similar situation with RTS, I was just saying that the President of the Republic abuses RTS, he's always on RTS. Although it's not just him, there's Batic, and Korac, I don't know who Vladan Batic represents, he's always on RTS. When it comes to the President of the Republic of Tadic, a few days ago, yesterday, the day before yesterday, I don't know which television, whether he was on RTS anyway now, BK, B92, RTS, it's all the same. He says Serbs should have gone to the polls because he would not have been elected Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj. It's like there's some difference between Ramush Haradinaj and Thaci. This Bajram Rexhepi was Thaci's, they're all the same. We don't give five pairs who will be president of the Kosovo and Metohija government. It shows that he has no state wisdom. Or why, if it already has such an impact in the international community, why not prevent Ramush Haradinaj from being the prime minister of the Kosovo government. It doesn't have any effect. Or when he's talking about the status of Cosmet. There is also a Deputy Prime Minister, something similar to Tadic's, but unfortunately, you see, Deputy Prime Minister and Americans, Zavalis or something called, I think that the scientific associate of the American Centre is someone, I don't know who, says everything is settled on the status of Kosovo and the Metohija in Resolution 1244. It says -- Kosovo and Metohija belong to Serbia, in order to change the status must change the resolution. The resolution will certainly not change, if for nothing else, because of China and Russia. So that state wisdom is nowhere to be asked. In the end, don't worry about Tadic too much and he's not much of a president. Tadic won about 800,000 in the last election. The first round is always important. If we hadn't changed that law, we wouldn't have a president. And for example, since people from all political parties often know how to talk about Slobodan Milosevic, he won two million when he lost the election, and in all other elections he always won in the first round at least 2.5 million or 3.5 million. It was the true support of the people. This thing with Tadic, just let Tadic do RTS, and this means we can track for cash compensation users.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9416	On Article 7th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9417	I'm so glad to hear that visual contact between the government and the President of the Republic has been established. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the change in Article 7, the Ministry of Finance, function 090, social protection is classified elsewhere, economic classification 464, donations and transfers in compulsory social insurance organisations. The amendment would increase the resources of the Republic Fund for PIO employees from 63,132,500,000 to 69,132,500,000, the Republic Fund for PIO farmers from 4,034,000 to 4,841,667,000, while the total transfers shown in columns 6 and 8 would be increased from 77,500,000 to 80,589,266,000. With this amendment, and in the light of the views of the MPs of the SRS, I request that the funds allocated to specialised services, as a suspicious and useless way of spending budgets of 6,807,667,000, and that the participation of compulsory social insurance organisations, and that of billions, be transferred to the Republic Fund for PIO employees, amounting to 807 million 667 to the Republic Fund for the Insurance of Farmers, all in order to improve the material status of farmers. It's much more necessary than the president and his fleet, and it's also a vehicle from his office. With this tender, the government has shown incredible impudence to Serbian citizens, who are barely surviving. This represents pure waste and waste of state money, for the privilege of state officials. I'm asking you, Minister Dinkic, it could be with this money you're planning to spend on a rolling stock to open up a lot of jobs. There's one more thing I'd like to suggest to you and the other President of the Republic, that you play basketball and see who's better there, not spend it on the department buildings, and the president at the driver's park. That's a lot, it's not right, which my colleague Mr. Peric mentioned earlier on October 6th at the National Bank, because we just forgot it. Don't let him remind us again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9418	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9419	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and this amendment is in line with the previous amendment, which referred to Article 6. Now definitely, through Igor Becic's amendment, funds intended for specialised services are transferred to the pension fund, with 63 billion 132 million and 500 000 dinars to increase to 69 billion 132 million 500,000 dinars, and that would be the second half of the 13th pension, which we can pay in the 2005 budget to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, this amendment required that pensions be increased for farmers from 4 billion 34 million to 4 billion 841 million 766 million. It means the same from the part of the Republic of Serbia's budget that was intended for specialised services. It has already been said that specialised services are an extremely suspicious way of spending budget money. Mr. Minister said the money for these services was planned for NGOs to finance political parties. In any case, it is - specialized services, economic classification 424, and the economic classification relating to political parties, to the financing of the elections is 481 in heading 7, economic classification 481, function 160, which is said to be grants to NGOs, this appraisal is intended to finance the regular work of political parties whose candidates have been elected as MPs to the National Assembly. So it's not 424, as you claim - specialized services. That's what 330 million dinars are for. Furthermore, 82 million to hold some federal elections for the state union parliament. Then, 3 million are foreseen for the work of the Union of Reserve Military Elders and another 45 million dinars to finance the national council of minorities. Mr. Minister, if you want to defend your budget, the items of your budget, at least teach him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9420	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here, the word is Ljiljana Nestorovic, although I see the amendment has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9421	Dear colleagues, the amendment I have submitted to Article 7 refers to my intensities that the funds for the work of the Coordination Centre and bodies are increasing twice. You've heard the explanation a few times already. However, despite all the misunderstandings we had yesterday, with consultations with the Prime Minister and finance minister, a compromise has been found to provide these funds from additional funds, which will later be formed, as well as from the 2004 and 2005 budget reserve. We hope the minister will keep his word and manage to find these funds, because they are really necessary. Every penny is necessary for this purpose. I would once again call on ministers to make sure that everything that is in their divisions actually reaches the end users in Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia, because that is what the government's conclusion made in April of this year. It is the least that can be done under these conditions, respecting all the difficulties to put together a budget, which would have all the characteristics that the minister advocated and explained. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9422	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Nenad Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SRS believe that the proposed law is not developmental, not social. So, it will not benefit workers and peasants, but will benefit from friends of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic through a service contract. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and pursuant to Article 141. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7 of section 180, that in the economic classification of 463 words "The Co-ordination Body of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and the Co-ordination Centre of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija" is replaced by the words "subsidy in agriculture". My amendment was rejected, and the government gave the following explanation: the amendment is rejected because the Coordination Body and the Coordination Centre aim to use budget funds to eliminate all forms of endangerment of constitutional and legal order and to violate the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. I don't believe that with two billion and 250 million governments, this explanation she's given will come true. I don't believe it because the constitutional and legal order is at risk, the state sovereignty and territorial integrity has also been violated. The reason for all of this is the mention in the municipality of Bujanovac, in the town of Velika Trnovac, which was erected by Shiptar terrorists Ridhan Qazimija, called Captain Leshi, over whom the Albanian flag is flying. I note that the constitutional and legal order is at risk, as is the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. So far, the work of these authorities, apart from the great financial costs, had no other result. In three municipalities in southern Serbia, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, all the funds allocated by the Coordination Centre were spent unintendedly. I'll give you a few examples. The Resistance office has been paid a telephone bill of about 300,000 dinars. Hotel accommodation was paid to a Jelena Urosevic in Bujanovska Banja "Vrelo", amounting to about a million and a half dinars. The same Jelena Urosevic drives the official vehicle of Serbia's MUP, and is not a MuP worker. It is an additional factor of instability in Bujanovac with its behaviour and behaviour. But it looks like it's a good opportunity to finance from the co-ordination body's money. I would also like to point out that the two million-dollar cash from the co-ordination body account was transferred to the Bujanovac municipality for the construction of an asphalt road from the Bujanovac railway station to the Felcvat factory. The project has not yet been launched, which means that these funds that have been transferred are probably spent for other purposes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens expect new jobs, expect pay and pension increases, and you increase the funds for the Coordination Centre from a billion 650 million to two billion 250 million, the taxpayers' money that will be wasted in the coming period. It is good to say that the funds are intended to develop three municipalities in southern Serbia. But unfortunately, these funds will end as well as the previous ones. That is why we in the SRS suggest that we focus these funds on agriculture, benefiting from farmers and workers, citizens and states in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9424	Anyone else want a word? The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9425	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is not against the SRS to help citizens in southern Serbia and Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija financially and in any other way. The problem is that money is spent by Nebojsa Covic. The problem is, that money is being spent unintendedly. The problem is that it's a clean source of income to get some private business done. That is why the SRS has submitted one such amendment, that the two billion-million-dollar grant in agriculture, especially since the 2005 budget for the wheat buy-in subsidy from a billion 650 million to a billion. Not to go back to that value added tax story of 5% of that repromaterial tax in agriculture, etc. However, given the economic situation among Serbian citizens and that this money has been spent for the past four years, we do not mind even opening up the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia, which would conduct certain actions on that part of the territory on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't mind the ministry's doing so, but the problem is that two billion and 250 million should spend Nebojsa Covic, who so far, according to a report not adopted by the government for 2003, spent the money unintendedly. He spent it on some phone bills, at the hotel accommodation of Serb lawmakers in the Kosovo parliament, who have a salary of five or six thousand euros, and the only thing they did for the Serb people during their term was to come to funerals for killed Serbs with armored UNMIK transporters. It is not nice to spend money on such things by the citizens of Serbia. The spending results are catastrophic. In four years and a dozen billion dinars, Nebojsa Covic failed to return to Kosovo and the Ten Serbs Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9426	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. Amendment to Article 7. The bill, division 10, function 420, economic classification 451 would change, but to start slowly in order. Mr. Minister, you don't seem to be familiar with the problems of agriculture, farmers and peasants. In your proposal for budget rebalancing, I have pointed out something similar to this and told you that it would be devastating for both farmers and for Serbian peasants, you should know that from the sanctions imposed on this Serbia they were wearing on the shoulders of this poor and harassed Serbia. In your table, you said about the agriculture budget of 10 billion 982 million 875 thousand, these are budget funds, expenditures from the additional revenues of the organ of 300 million dinars, totaling 11 billion 282 million and 875 thousand dinars. But you put only five items here, while my amendment contains 11 items. Your items make up this 11 billion -- a subsidy of production, exports and input seven billion 286 million, a premium on wheat billion, for a whole billion and 900 million less than I have suggested, measures to improve productivity by 430 million and 800,000, measures to improve the village of 911 million, and measures and actions in agriculture of 354 million and 530 thousand dinars. What we have submitted in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I think it would be clear to every farmer why this budget is restrictive to agriculture. We're asking it to be 13 billion 389 million 586 thousand dinars, with additional spending and organ revenue at 300 million, totaling 13 billion 689 million and 586 thousand dinars. But the most important are the items. The grant for milk and industrial plants is five billion 912 million. The measures to improve the productivity of the land are 660 million and 800,000, measures to improve agricultural land are 374 million 256 thousand dinars, measures to boost exports of 608 million, the purchase premium of wheat of two billion and 900 million dinars. Regretted fertilizer and fuel, which you have not regressed but have increased yet, is a billion and 200 million, professional agricultural services 240 million, agricultural landhold register 70 million, measures and actions in agriculture 74 million 530 thousand, subsidies to improve the village 450 million and measures to increase the quality of milk is 900 million. Your answer to my amendment is - the amendment is rejected for reasons of Article 26(2). The budget system law found that the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditure by the same amount. Mr. Minister, we've heard a lot here about the president of Serbia, his administration, his fleet, and I think that if you cut down on what the SRS has been saying so many times, I think this agriculture budget would be appreciated. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9428	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9429	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the amendment of fellow Christians and try to convince you to do the same, and I would like this opportunity to comment on section 10, which concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In the light of the resources spent in this section, on page 99 of this proposal for a law, it is explained how all the funds are spent in this section, i.e. all the measures envisaged and incentives for the development of agricultural production. There's a few things that I can do here, a few things are controversial, and I want to point them out. Section 10 states that the necessary and incentives in the area of agriculture were designed on the basis of the following programme objectives in 2005, so under point 1 stands – support for registered producers for industrial plants and all other incentives starting in 2005, and for milk since 2006. The subsidy measure for vegetable production is also cited, which says it provides 500 million dinars to subsidise vegetable production. Also, regressing fuel for registered agricultural producers. I wonder why this government and why these agriculture and finance ministries are selecting agricultural producers, why they discriminate on agricultural producers, why they force them to register if they don't want it and why those who register have some privileges, and the others don't. This fall, oil has been regressed only for producers who have registered, and for others it is not. A milk subsidy has been provided here since 2006, but only for those producers registered and also for producers of vegetables registered. What does this mean? Milk producers in the mountain-mountan area are mostly nursing households, which survive 10 or 20 liters of milk sold daily milk. They won't, they don't want to register, they don't have any motive for it, but they want to deal with this production, they live and survive. Why do you make them register if they don't want to and why you discriminate against them if they don't register, that they can't keep doing this job and live on it. I don't understand, if you're already talking about production incentives, why are you limiting the production of milk, why are you regressing the production of only certain quantities of milk and what's beyond that? If we already want to encourage production, if we want to and talk about exports, why are we limiting that production? Finally, it stands - export incentives measures will be given to support the export of strategic products. I ask you, Minister, what are these strategic agricultural products? A month ago, I was on the Committee on Agriculture with the intention of asking questions from the Ministry whether raspberry would be a strategic product, because I heard it was a strategy for agricultural production. I got a response from the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, who's probably from your party, the minister is safe, but for him I don't know, and the answer was that the raspberries would not be a strategic product. And not only the raspberries, that there will be no product that the Serbian peasant produces, will be strategic. What does that mean and what does it all lead to? Why do you write something here that doesn't stand at all and you probably don't know it, because there's not going to be any strategic product in that strategy. Why do you deceive us as MPs and the Serbian public and enter these terms into this bill? Once again, it would be nice to accept Mr. Krstin's amendment, to invest a little more in agricultural production, because it has kept us for the past 15 years and will probably in the coming period, but it should in any way enable these people to make easier and cheaper products and to benefit more from what they produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9430	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9431	When you can at this late hour, so can I. So why do registered agricultural producers have, as you say, a privilege and a privilege. Right, in 2006, no one will get a single grant dinar unless it's registered. I can confirm that. Why? Because it's in all normal countries where we know exactly what who, how much they produce and if we want to introduce quality food, if we want to encourage and know exactly what we want to produce, if we want to implement the agriculture strategy, we have to have registered agricultural producers. You're saying I can't have foster homes registering. They're not interested and no one's gonna make them, but they're not gonna get a penny of the premium. So, no one's gonna make them, they're gonna volunteer, just like they are now, but there's not gonna be a premium. It's a stimulant for someone to register. If all citizens of this country can be introduced into the record of the MUP, if they can be introduced to other records, why not have agricultural producers introduced into one register so that we know exactly what they produce and that we can plan subsidies, and not as before, it is obvious that we need so many premiums for wheat, and then no one has been living inspecting the lists of previous years as much as the premium was paid, at least to the peasants arrived and stayed in various mills. We want to know exactly how much money we have to give, just because you're asking us to save, we want and we're saving and more than you're asking, but then the villagers have to be registered. Of course there will be three billion and 100 million for milk premiums, there will be 850 million to boost exports. You can read strategic products in the agrarian strategy. I really can't have all the strategies I've been made to have in my head. I'm just a man like you, but really, as far as the wheat premium is concerned, there's enough to be a billion dinars. We're full of silos. Today, the government has made a decision on the full liberalisation of exports of wheat, flour and anyone can export wherever they want, given that we have a surplus, it gave birth well. Next year, there's no need for more than a billion dinars to buy for our stock reserves. This year we paid in the name of the wheat premium over three billion dinars. A billion and 200 were paid before the harvest, a billion and 800 is a premium dinar and we'll bring in another week to pay off half the dinars we promised. So I think that we can really differ in concepts, but the concept of this government is to encourage the registration of agricultural producers, so that this production is better quality, so that it is more productive and that these producers can get loans for equipment and improve the quality of production. That's the difference in concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9432	Replica, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9433	This registration carries out discrimination against peasants. So there are people who don't want to register, foster homes that survive by selling 10 to 20 liters of milk daily. They don't want to, and they don't have a motive to register. You won't pay them that premium since 2006. Second thing, that premium is three months late today. Why is he late? Third thing, pensions for peasants late 24 months, two years old, and seven days ago, you went on a campaign to pay off three pensions in about 15 to 20 days. When you came to power four years ago, those pensions were 17 months late. So you've made seven more delays. Fourth thing, strategic products. Your deputy minister made it clear and loud that there are no strategic products regarding agrarians. No product will be strategic, it is a strategy, but without strategic products.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9434	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to split into Article 7, function 410, into EC 621, an amount of 800 million in replacements of 3,605,184,000, and the amount in columns 6 and 8 "830 million" is replaced by 3,635,184,000. In an explanation offered by the SRS, we say that the deficit budget should not have a reserve, so the funds provided for the budget reserve and the Agency's work resources should be used in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, export lending, etc. In his reply, the government said that the amendment was rejected for the reason that the Budgetary System Act found, in Article 48, that part of the planned revenue was not allocated in advance, but was maintained on behalf of the current budget reserve, and Article 49 found that the budget provided for a permanent budget reserve, up to 1.5% of the total revenue for the financial year, so that the total planned funds for 2005 could not be channelled towards the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and export lending. Maybe this is true, maybe this, as you say, is completely true and that, in accordance with the law, that reserve must exist. Mr. Minister, we've been persecuting ourselves all night and at these early morning hours. You cannot deny that the president of the Republic of Serbia does not need eight new luxury cars and such a budget. I was somewhere around the break today near the Palace of Albania, where one of the DS offices is located. There I saw Mr. Micunovic, Mr. Petrovic, and at that moment came two armored BMW cars, along with a necessary police escort and ran to wait for the president, pushed away the photographers who tried to record it. So, at a party meeting, completely out of state need, our president of the Republic is about 250 meters from the presidency building that the Albanian Palace used those expensive cars. There were police everywhere, security, etc. This budget and this state cannot finance the kind of luxury our President of the Republic is accustomed to. If that's the price of cohabitation, to buy him eight cars, let's cut to two, and make you happy and cohabitation, and make it a little cheaper for us. At the same time, Mr. Minister, a request has been rejected for the employees of the Serbian Parliament, people who have very low incomes, officials, secretaries and secretaries, to be allocated one amount in the budget to buy those work suits. That's what we always bought, it was kind of a help, that they, because they have small incomes, can buy themselves to look decent and come to work politely. If these funds have to be allocated to the President of the Republic's office, I suggest that audio communications devices be perfected, because the entire nation has not slept for 72 hours, because the president of the state and the Prime Minister did not communicate. Therefore, those who were concerned about the fate of negotiations on forming power in Belgrade can take a break, as those 72 hours of communication meant that the establishment of the city's government of Belgrade was at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9436	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9437	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I am absolutely convinced that this amendment is justified and that it should be accepted in some way. I understand what the technical problem is in increasing revenues, to increase expenditure on guardians of protected natural resources. I believe the minister will find a way to help this environmental protection agency carry out these activities. If that's the case, I'm willing to withdraw the amendment to allow us to work more efficiently. So I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9438	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9439	Dear People’s MPs, they are already late in the morning, someone would say small hours, and the atmosphere itself in the congregation corresponds to what brings fatigue to long hours of work. Here's my speech to testify what a man after 14 hours looks like as he sits in this congregation. I used to say it wasn't right for us to discuss such important laws this long and in the night hours, but come on, the budget is one of the most important laws, so we Serbian radicals will certainly be participating in this debate until the end. What I wanted to correct with this amendment is what we Serbian radicals have been saying long ago. Namely, we have said that you need to wipe head 17.2 and function 650 on page 28. On page 28, you first have the Environmental Protection Authority, and below, you have the Environmental Protection Agency. If a man would like to see the difference between the Environmental Protection Administration, which is within the Ministry of Science and the Agency, then he can look at what we were given on the 116th page, where the functions of the Environment Protection Authority are explained, and right below that is the Environment Protection Agency. It says nicely: "The Environmental Protection Authority, as the Authority of the Administration of the Ministry of Science and Protection, performs professional tasks relating to the system of protection and sustainable use of natural resources – resources (air, water, land, etc.). A little lower, the Agency says: "The Environment Protection Agency was established by the Ministry Act, as an organ within the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection (to date all the same) with the property of a legal person. This agency shall carry out professional tasks relating to the development, coordination and management of the national environmental information system." One of the only functions given to the Agency, and we live in the 21st century, and I wonder if the administration doesn't have an information system, and whether they might be writing pencils or going back to old typewriters. However, we also got this budget written by hand, the Pagination is here today by hand, although we live in the 21st century. What's our basic intensity? The minister let him say we didn't make any serious remarks. He didn't realize at all what we were talking about the health of the people and the resources that stand out for that health. The IMF told us - cutting public spending. What are we doing? We're cutting the rate of the national gross health product. We have reached the lowest rate the World Health Organization allows, which is 5.1. We had even lower 4.9, which is not allowed anywhere in the world for a normal country. The reduction of the budget deficit was also imposed, so we rebalanced, but we did a nakaradan rebalancing, because we've decapitated primary health care. Now that, Mr. Minister, is not a serious matter, and the Serbian people are very sick right now. Yesterday, political sciences were held consulting, some NGO and political sciences, the health situation and the health needs of the Serbian population. It's a catastrophic situation, in the last four years, all diseases have been on the rise, and we don't have an army, we destroy, and the lowest rate the World Health Organization allows us to introduce here, and then justifiably we Serbian radicals will rebel when we see eight cars to one president. I remember a man, someone said Caesar, no, it's from the Dragon of Jowina's song -- a little brother of his father's watch gets his hands on it, and the watch is made of gold, and that's the problem. Also, we can't rest when you decapitate primary health care, which is the most significant segment of the health care of a nation and which these negative trends of disease can bring down, stop, and you don't respect, you say, we don't say serious things. I don't think you're right about that. We also cannot reconcile when you of these plans allow the Director of the Galenika, who is a civil servant, that is a public service, has 35,000 euros in salary, and a man has a high school. This budget and this distribution of funds allows it. Please, just think about it. You're going to say, it's the law, so you've answered us as planned, that it has to stand that item, so give them one dollar, because everything you've given, you've given to new people. He also told his colleague Angelkovic that you had received four thousand new administrative officials in the government since 2000, and then it was cutting public spending. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9440	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Petkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment that in article 7, 30 and 470 are being deleted, and the motivation to submit my amendment is based on a well-known position of the SRS on the matter of the agencies, and we from the SRS parliamentary group have talked very often about it. The SRS concept does not contain agencies, because it is a set of few effective parts of the state apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thereby increasing the budget deficit. The agencies are nothing but parallel bodies that are not rational and are of no benefit to the citizens of Serbia. Discussible privileges of the President of the Republic have already been discussed. Simply incomprehensible, the cost of luxury in a situation where people starve. Did the president of the Republic in the election campaign promise Serbian citizens that he would hire them or that would only apply to members of the DS who are employed in this way and working in the people's office. For whom cars were purchased or better to say limos of 3,000 cubic metres. Why does the finance minister help him with this draft budget, which is run by the government of the Republic of Serbia, whether it represents a promised fight against crime and corruption. What's with all the haughtiness and insolence and greed? The SRS parliamentary group has clearly distanced itself from such behaviour and we, the SRS, will never have the understanding of such privileges at the expense of Serbian citizens. Under the conditions of a major economic crisis and social misery, new cars of 3,000 cubic metres, I guess, for saving. It might be better if a blue train was hired for the president of the Republic, perhaps it would be cheaper, and for every commendation is the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, who did not even read the draft budget law, and defends it before the MPs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9442	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the amendment that I have invested in front of the SRS parliamentary group on Article 7, division 31 and function 410. It relates to the foreign investment agency and the promotion of exports. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad. The question is, who did this agency need? Secondly, there is no minister to tell us at least someone from the government that we MPs, here are colleagues, could tomorrow pass on to the voters who chose us and tell them what this agency has done from its establishment to today. First, let's ask what she did on the export plan, on the import plan, and what are the results? I can tell you that there are no results and that the results are zero. Please, if the government had been smart, skillful and wise, it could have channeled this amount of 37 million 254,000 to some smarter purposes. She could have paid 12.5 pensions to the farmers. Wouldn't that be more useful, ladies and gentlemen, and it would be more useful? Compare now, the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad and this agency for the promotion of exports and imports. You'll see that each other has special services, both of which have the supply of goods and machinery. Both have costs that match, both have enormously high travel costs, and please, is it possible that the only government in Europe has as many tourist travels as this government has? Take all the agencies and all the ministries. You will see that the most of these remarks and spending money on taxpayers is on the journeys, and I would say that we Serbian radicals can't say anything else about those trips that don't deliver results, we can just say that they are tourist trips and that's the tourist government. You can imagine how busy the secretary is in those agencies, how busy the driver is and how much money is given to the cabinets, how much money is given to the teams, how much money is given to the air conditioning. Please, it should all be unmounted and installed in Serbia's health institutions. Cars taken, sold, peasants bought tractors and to plow this rich Serbian country. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must come to its senses, but we cannot expect it from this government. We expect the victory of Serbian radicals, this right side will be the next government, but soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9444	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9445	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete 34 functions of 360 in article 7. This applies to the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights Infringement, known as the Lustration Commission. For this Lustration Commission, it is proposed in the budget on behalf of the prizes, bonuses and other special expenditures of millions of dinars. Permanent costs of 100,000, travel costs of 100,000 dinars, contracted services of 200,000 dinars, million and 400,000 dinars in total. What's the point? The government is in a position to explain why it did not accept this amendment – the amendment is rejected for the reason that the Law on Liability for Human Rights, Article 22, is an educated Commission to examine responsibilities for human rights violations, for which the work is provided in the budget of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when this law was passed we Serbian radicals emphasized that this is an inapplicable law, that this law will never actually come into force. That is true, and I am convinced that no one in this room knows now whether there is a formal lustration commission. MPs who were MPs at the time when the law was being discussed and the vote in this House was well remembered by the confusion, when then Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic proposed certain persons for this Lustration Commission, and then there was a written notice, a telegram and what was not, informing those people that they had received in public transmission that they had proposed for the commission, that no one had ever asked them and that they did not want to work there. The commission probably doesn't exist formally, and the commission really doesn't exist, it really doesn't work, and now I wonder who will and what these 1 million and 400,000 dinars are going to be spent on for the commission. And even if the commission were to exist, then the question really is where the commission should travel for 100,000 dinars or which contracts, contract services, the commission should conclude at 200,000 dinars. Serbian citizens are well-remembered by the lustration law, without the lustration commission and at no extra cost. This is the lustration that you, most of all present in 2001, implemented in the authorities of administrations, courts, businesses, these are the lustrations that crisis headquarters have conducted in the state of Serbia so far, and we Serbian radicals would accept that these funds be allocated to lustration if you would accept the lustration of those lustrations from 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9446	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9447	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I'd like to read you a statement. "The law on preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions provides for the establishment of a Republic Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. The law stipulates that the Republic Committee has a professional service and secretaries, which are subject to regulations governing the work of staff in the state administration, and that they pay employees in the professional service and the secretary determines the competent assembly board." In the light of this law, it is stated that specific means should be planned for the work of this authority. Since the draft budget law does not have the means planned, the SDP wants this explanation and this proposed amendment to complete the necessary complementarity and in accordance with this law. I read the argument of the SDP, or the explanation of my amendment to Article 7. We insist that funds be found for the Republic Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. I hope that there has been a failure and that there is no funds in the 2005 draft budget law, especially I cannot accept the explanation provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where it says - the funds for financing the Republic of Serbia's conflict prevention committee are foreseen within the scope of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So it is said -- Chapter 1, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the professional service, in the framework of the following appraisals, salaries and allowances for employees of two million dinars, social contributions to the employer's burden of 300,000 dinars, permanent costs of 200,000 dinars, contracts of 200,000 dinars, a total of three million and 160,000 dinars. We consider and find space and positions, after section 34 to add division 34a, function 360a, and column five to enter a text that reads – the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and in column six to enter the amount of 15 million dinars. In column eight, an amount of 15 million dinars is entered. You will all agree with me that if we have already adopted the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, if that law provided for the functioning of the Republic Committee, that, certainly, the funds intended for the work of the Republic of Serbia Assembly should not be sought, but rather, it is necessary to determine a special position, which is the position I propose to this amendment, that a new division of 34 is added after Section 34.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9448	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The People's Messenger Srjo Komazec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The proposal for a budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, by proposing that 37 and 510 of this member be separated. This article stipulates that the salaries and incomes of the recycling agency are seven million and 8,000 dinars, and specialised services of seven million dinars. Here is the question, what are the specialized services that are equal to the salaries of employees of the Recycling Agency. If this adds that the bill provides for five million dinars for services per contract, which with costs for specialised services is 12 million dinars, while workers' salaries are seven million, which is highly illogical, the question is what will workers in the Agency do. It is understood that the agency must have the equipment so that it can carry out its obligations rationally, not to give everything to the payers of the citizens who are scheduled in the budget. If the agency were to work on income, then it would be in a very different position to organize an agency based on rationalization. The persons causing the creation of waste should also pay for solving the problems caused by their production. If the state finances that kind of cost out of citizens' pockets, they will not be interested in solving the problem, though they create the problem. The SRS is against setting up agencies for all sorts of things, because it's expensive and a slightly efficient part of the state's apparatus. None of the agencies established so far have given the expected results in their work, so it is unnecessary to allocate budgets for the Agency's work, thus promising a budget deficit. Just to point out that in the first ten months of 2004, the recycling agency paid 191 million dinars in the structure of its costs, which are huge, for only one single item, and these are paid and paid to the employer's burden, and that this amount will be expected to be as much as 250 million dinars. Why, if it is known in the world that waste management business is highly profitable and business and activity, does not leave the market to regulate it in accordance with the regulations. Does that mean we need to review our economic system, form another 30 agencies and hang them on the budget the way you do it here today with the Recycling Agency? I hope my amendment, Members of Parliament, will accept on the day set for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9450	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Stevica Dejanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9451	By amendment, I suggest that Article 7 split 38 and function 420 be deleted. The SRS is software against the establishment of all agencies, everything and everything we've already talked about. We have established that there are a huge number of agencies, commissions, offices that the SRS has warned all this time since this government exists as unnecessary and harmful, and this is now especially seen in this budget, given that 763 million dinars are being allocated to them. I would call on everyone not to support this budget, but I do know that regardless of what the facts are in favour of it, only the SRS will not support this budget. It's more important for someone to keep DS members and officials busy and have cars, new, black, blinded, and take their hands off the back seat. That reminds us of something. Well, the people did not go to elections to hire Tadic's security guards, drivers and his personal rapes. I am an MP from Vrsec, but this kind of criminal behavior puts everyone at risk in Serbia. These gentlemen from the yellow criminal organization are like leeches, they just hang on and hang on to something in the budget, and they draw money from there. I'll give an example-- Vrsac has been driven away by the most incompetent and blackest power in the history of Vrsca. They all looked like incompetent personnel and received a transfer from one fund to another as a reward. So they're like classic parasites, leeches from the DS, they just spill out of the fund into the fund and continue to take away the money. I cited this example only to ask you here, and to let the citizens hear: firstly, who makes funds from which DS is funded, and these funds are filled with workers and peasants; secondly, who is funding Boris Tadic and his office, and is that what he promised, and he and this government, to solve DS problems or to hire people. Finally, who here is pretending to criticise the government, Tadic and his haughtiness, and will vote in favour of the budget. The SRS certainly won't, because Serbia's citizens are important to us and we don't want to step on them, and we want to mock them, as the current ruling coalition, both Tadic and his prohaska group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9452	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9453	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever we passed the laws here that predicted the formation of agencies, we, as MPs of the SRS, criticised those laws precisely for these agencies and said that it would cost the state a lot, that Serbian citizens would have to pay hard for those business failures, because everything the agencies did could do to the ministries. However, it was necessary to form offices – it is – in which you will hire your own. There's no difference between the office today from across the street, because he hired yellows from your agencies. The tobacco agency - 17 million dinars. I wonder what that tobacco agency would do when you sold both tobacco factories. Is he going to steal tobacco? And, one more thing, I'm afraid the car went downhill, because today when I saw Boris Tadic coming out, he was going to this meeting of the local board, right over there at the Albanian Palace, the car police in front of him, his car, the police car behind him, and believe me, I thought - they took him to November 29th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9454	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here, the word is Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the Government, the amendment to Article 7 is in fact an explanation that budget financing for agency work should not be spent. A number of agencies have been established. They're all independent, independent, spending a lot of money, and efficiency isn't great. That's their status in law. I like these agencies, for example, if you remember big construction companies that take jobs and can't do everything, then they hire a large number of subcontractors. In this case, the government is a contractor, and the agencies are subcontractors. It encourages the government's intention to reduce the state administration, but it's an extremely difficult job. I would remind the MPs of a period in the early 1980s, though last century, that the state of Serbia had a law on mandatory personnel records, had an establishment on human resources records, where they listed all personnel in the leading posts, all those who have universities, more schools. The list was made on two basis. Based on employment and political engagement. After several reports by the Republic Institute, starting with years of age, school, acquired knowledge and experience, businesses carried out, certain people of reputation and authority have abolished the law and the institute. That administration hasn't been reduced. It's the same problem with the administration that's so numerous now, and it's going to be very hard to do. Before I conclude, let me read a short text from a beautiful book - Opening new perspectives - paragraph 159; The law of this pillar is in life from July 1st 1866. We recommend our finance minister that this law be born and executed. And We command the authorities to follow him, and to all, and to all, and to all, to obey him. Since 15 April 1866 in Belgrade, Mihajlo M. Obrenovic, Knjaz Serbian, saw it, and stamped the state seal, the minister of justice. This government has an accent on the words "and we command the authorities to act on it, and everyone and everyone to obey it", and there is little in Serbia today. General is indiscipline. We don't respect our own laws. There are a lot of crime in the highest authorities, or bodies that need to protect this country and the law. We don't have a Book of Serbian, but we have a president, but we should have a president who, in addition to these party obligations, could be a little more serious about state affairs, and thus help these citizens live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9456	I thank Mr. Todorovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's almost two o'clock, you from the parliamentary majority didn't have to harass us to work at night. This is already 18 hours, as some are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In any case, we, not by our own fault, but thanks, it seems to me, to your desire to finish some things as soon as possible, perhaps for some unknown reasons, we will be forced to end up during the evening. I see the atmosphere is quite difficult to work with. Some MPs are resting or sleeping outside, some are in a restaurant. No one lives listens to anyone else, one minister is gone, and another minister reads tomorrow's newspaper. I can understand all that, but you're carrying the blame, because it's hard to be completely serious and focused at 2:00 a.m. In any case, this amendment concerns the travel costs of Svetozar Marovic, president of Serbia-Montenegro. It's a man who's known for his fantastic statements that "stuck up our country abroad", a man who apologized everywhere and everyone without knowing why he apologized. He could never explain why he apologized. He never knew what the reason was. He never listed any reason for that. These people are looking at him, we haven't even asked you, we haven't asked you to, and in Sarajevo, in Zagreb, and in many other places. Now, he's shown that he's a European politician since he apologized to someone again. I don't see what we've benefited from it, except that it will again demand Montenegro's separation from Serbia, they will again ask Serbia's citizens for their money. I think we could save a lot of money on this. So it's not an adjudication, it's a relationship primarily towards the institution, it can spend a lot less on us and the benefits of being incomparably greater and protecting the citizens of Serbia from it. In any case, I just have to ask, since the MPs are mostly uninterested, except to count themselves at the end, to ask the MPs of the SRS to keep this short time, as far as we can concentrate, because I've seen those who wrote the amendment exits and this way will last until tomorrow, and the question is who will be able to use the right button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9458	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I also thank you for this contribution, and I hope you agree that you have been very carefully listened while speaking about this amendment. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9459	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I submitted to Article 8, split 64, function 110, is similar to the amendment that my colleague Aleksandar Vukic explained earlier, and there were such amendments regarding Boris Tadic. Namely, this amendment also refers to the reduction of travel and services costs per contract, this time Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic and, I would say, his pulena Ognjen Pribicovic and Radomir Stojanovic. In previous members, we asked to reduce travel costs and these services under contract for both Boris Tadic and Svetozar Marovic, for the simple reason that we Serbian radicals think their travel abroad is very harmful to the state of Serbia. When I read the government's argument to this former member of the "amendment is being rejected for reasons why the proposed conversion of funds would endanger the functioning of the president of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro", I was very shaken, imagine that it would endanger what is being apologized and where it should be and where it should not be. As for the amendments to the reduction of travel and service costs under the contract for Mr Vuk Draskovic, Foreign Minister, we in the SRS believe that this amendment is indeed involved and that the government or the assembly majority should accept it. Because imagine, travel costs for him are 98 million, and even more interesting -- services contracted by 54 million 931 thousand dinars. We are definitely convinced that these services are hiding something that should be read between the lines. What are the contracts, which are services in one ministry, where there are employees as long as necessary, it is possible and more if necessary, that this amount of funds should be allocated for those services as well. Why did I say that we Serbian radicals think and think that the journeys of these officials, who often travel outside Serbia, are harmful to Serbia? I'll make an example of Vuk Draskovic. This man, whenever he goes outside Serbia, comes back with something that shocks the public of Serbia. He went abroad and returned with a motion to withdraw the NATO lawsuit. He goes abroad and returns with an invitation from Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to vote. He goes abroad and returns with an invitation to recruits not to join the army. It seems to me that he is in personal co-habitation with Boris Tadic, because their views in all those things, which are very harmful to Serbia, agree and are identical. I would like a representative of the promoter to tell me whether any other lunches, such as those of Carl del Ponte at the Federation Palace, where Vuk Draskovic were also, and Boris Tadic and Svetozar Marovic, where they were blacking out the pheasant, the srenjati, and I don't know what. The papers wrote about it. Of course, this Carla del Ponte, who is hated by the Serbian people, came to her friends because she said she was finally happy and happy because she found a friend in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, and whoever is a friend of Carla del Ponte is an enemy of Serbia, of the Serbian people and of the Serbian national interest. We Serbian radicals think that this gentleman could not be a foreign minister, and if he is, we suggest you cut his costs, keep him in the country as much as possible, perhaps less damage to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9460	I thank the People's Councilman, Vereca Radeti. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dusan Proroković, written on 19 November 2004, withdrew the amendment, with a correction, to Article 8. It's a bill of law. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is Milena Milosevic answering for a word? No, he's not here. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and MP Zoran Krasic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9461	Article 15. The draft law provides that the funds referred to in Section 4 relating to judicial authorities will be used. In that section is the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, all courts, prosecutors, etc. In accordance with Article 15, you have provided that the minister is responsible for the justice tasks of the commander for the implementation of the total expenditure referred to in Section 4 that he is responsible for the taking over of commitments, the issuing of payment orders, the execution of tasks, etc. This provision of the budget law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as this calls into question the independence of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Also, in this Djelic's Budgetary System Act, there are some provisions that camouflage this situation, so that it is an interesting provision of Article 2(7), which lists indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, and lists them as judicial authorities, institutions established by the Republic, or local authorities. So our courts are institutions, in the rank of an institution. They are not independent authorities that exercise judicial authority because they are dependent on the executive authority that decides, because he is the commander when to pay and how much to pay. Just to remind you, all parties represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at least declare themselves full independence and independence of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, and long ago, action is under way, an initiative to create a special judicial budget, on which executive power could not have any influence. Because you know who's as independent as he is with money, as he can function on his own. The government has found some excuse that it cannot accept this amendment precisely because of this Article 2 point 7), but I must say that in Article 10 of this Bad Bill on the Budgetary System stands – a special part of the budget covers the financial plans of direct beneficiaries of the budget according to the principle of dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial. If the majority considers that the adoption of this budget should violate the Constitution and the basic principles of independence and independence of the judiciary, i.e. it continues to believe that the judicial part of the budget should be in this budget and in the hands of the Minister when it comes to payment, you will vote on it, but I warn you that it is contrary to the Constitution, so, since you also consider it necessary to do something, suggest amending the Budget System Act. This Djelic isn't worth anything. Djelic's Budget System Law is unusable. You may not know how the laws were passed here. When the Law on the financing of political parties was passed, he suffered counterfeits twice in the form of an correction signed by the secretary. A similar falsification occurred with the lustration law. That amendment of the law, it was a fake. So that we do not come into a situation to face counterfeiting and that we do not come to the situation that the law and the secret regulations of Bozidar Djelic are the cause of the dispute between the minister and the Supreme Court, give the judiciary budget as a single budget belonging to the judiciary. How tomorrow, the Supreme Court judge will exercise justice if the defendant writes to him in a complaint – how he can judge the judge for whom the budget inspection has found that he has illegally spent the funds. He spent illegally because he made it possible for Djelic to adopt an anonymous and illegal regulation. So this isn't the thing people should laugh about, but they need to think about it a little bit and accept this. If you cannot accept the amendment, then let the regulations change urgently to ensure the financial independence of the courts, and I must also tell you the National Assembly. The National Assembly cannot exercise full power to exercise legislative authority if it depends on the finance minister when and how much he will pay. It's a principle. Whether someone likes it or not, that's another thing, but in all the Charters of Human Rights and in all international documents, it's standards. Use that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9462	Mr. Krasic, I hope you don't mind if I correct you or supplement you that this is the former Secretary of Parliament, not the present. Just for the public. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9463	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment regulates subsidies, namely payment of premiums for the purchase of wheat. Article 16 provides for the possibility that the Minister responsible for Agriculture Affairs may, with the consent of the Government, transfer to the Minister responsible for Trade Affairs the power to make part of the funds available, etc., subsidies to public, non-financial enterprises and organisations intended for the purchase and premium of wheat of a billion dinars. This is the amount that concerns these dinars and a half or two, how much was the dispute between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and agricultural producers. The SRS has submitted an amendment to increase the amount from a billion to two billion and 900 million, given that agricultural producers will have higher production costs from 1 January next year. In this way, agricultural producers, with these current prices of repromaterials, seed goods, food and plant protection, fuel prices, machinery and spare parts, are on the verge of rentability, even when it comes to some cultures. The cultivation of these cultures is negative. To invest more in them than it can with some market prices, to make up for it. We need to be aware of the fact that most of our agricultural producers do not have large holdings and that this is the order of size from five to seven hectares of arable land, that it is therefore more expensive to produce and work on such holdings, and that the state must take that specificity of our agricultural producers and help them to get on their feet with various subsidies, while the programme of the accumulation of agricultural holdings begins first and later ends. Prices, i.e. funds that will have to be invested from January 1st, are also higher. The first one is 5% higher when it comes to basic re-promaterials, means seed goods and food products, as for the first time since Serbia and parliamentaryism in Serbia have been in place, a re-promoting tax is being charged. This will, of course, be enough to burden agricultural producers, firstly, when it comes to the investment of funds. So less will be able to invest and, therefore, through those funds and offerings will be weaker, and their profits and hope for survival less. The amendment envisions funds for the purchase of wheat from a billion dinars to 2,900,000. I think the Assembly should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9464	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it finds that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the 20th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20(1). The bill, which I propose to amend the 1st indent, reads as follows: "Department 7 - Ministry of Finance, Function 180, transactions of general character between different levels of government, EC 463, donations and transfers to other levels of government for part of the appraisal of 2.250,000 dinars for agricultural subsidies. "I have submitted this amendment for the reason that these funds are intended for the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, and we know that the Co-ordination Centre, since this government's arrival, has not worked in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Minister said in his presentation, "many have underestimated our tenacity and our courage." I must admit that it takes an extremely strong tenacity and great courage to give Mr. Covic this much funds again. It even borders on something that is much more than a man should be persistent and courageous, especially if we know how the government where Mr. Covic was vice president went. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of the final account that the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre submitted and which was not adopted by the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. These funds, which are planned here, would come into the situation if we had the construction of some alleged gerontological centre, to rebuild some alleged housing blocks with four lamels, to redistribute 24 thousand humanitarian aid packages daily, to create a Serb settlement in Novi Sel Mandjusk, where the project, the building permit, the construction start, the completion of the construction, even the solemn delivery of the keys, but most importantly, of which, the Coordination Centre did not invest a single dinar, and it shows as its costs. Not to mention the cost of maintenance of the fleet, telephones, gasoline and the like. I therefore propose that these funds be transferred to agriculture, because agriculture is the only source and only safe investment, so that this money will be fertilised and returned to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I count that in six months most likely there will be budget rebalancing, and then these funds can be planned for the work of the Coordination Centre, but in some new personal composition. Otherwise, all the obligations necessary to make the life of Serbs as tolerable in Kosovo and Metohija, I suggest they implement the competent ministries through their services. I wanted to remind Mr. Labus that the money bags were current not only in Mr. Curtis' time, but also in Mr. Labus' time. In 2001, I remind you, at the border crossings of Kosovo and Metohija, some alleged tax was collected by the state of Serbia, from 5,000 marks, 7,000 marks and 10,000 marks per tanker or boot, and all that money was going to the sacks on Mr. Labus, the then vice president of the federal government. I'd like to ask him if he thinks that that's how he made it possible for Serbia to make three billion dollars in donations, for which he boasted here tonight. Finally, what I would like to say is that an increase of 600% for the affairs of the president of the Republic of Serbia is one megalomaniac need that the people of Serbia will be able to assess and punish in the next elections, so that "yellow" will be carried out as "yellow by thorn".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9466	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The National MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 20th Amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 2005 Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 20, paragraph 1 in the second indent, the amount of 10,982,875,000 dinars is replaced by 13,389,586,000 dinars. This Article 20 should be identical to Article 7, when I explained to the table why the agricultural budget should be increased. The reason is that the amendment provides for larger subsidies from agriculture, which is in a difficult material situation anyway, especially as of 1 January 2005, when value added tax is in force for a 5% agricultural re-material. I would ask the minister to pay attention, especially to some of his presentations, when it comes to the registration of agricultural holdings. In fact, it has been said that there are, at least by his understanding, obedient and disobedient farmers, i.e. those who registered their agricultural holdings and those who did not. Those who have, you will have benefits around buying diesel for 17 dinars, and not those who have not done it for many reasons so far, knowing that at least 70% of households catastreically did not take care of it legally. As for the sugar beet premium, for the first time this year we do not have a sugar beet premium, with the minister's explanation that the sugars have crossed into private hands and have been bought for three euros. Mr. Minister, it is not the farmer's fault that the sugars have been bought for three euros and therefore do not now have a premium for sugar tail. I have to tell you, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, if we could just try a little bit, Mr. Minister, so you could run a public prosecutor's office, to reconcile the public prosecutor's office and the stock reserves to end those huge disputes, because the stock reserves are private, social enterprises and agricultural goods due to 17 billion dinars. As for short- and long-term loans, you're right, registered agricultural holdings were getting, but also from those registered and submitted the request 50% did not get. As far as long-term loans are concerned, there were even fewer who achieved that long-term loan through the registration of agricultural holdings. Therefore, you must take care of agriculture. Agriculture is the bearer of this state of Serbia. You should accept amendments to the SRS. Otherwise, I think you really need to appreciate what you have to do with agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9468	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9469	There's no need to be angry with me, I didn't suggest it was working, I suggested it was Mitch. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 20(1) in indent 2. The split amount of 10,982,875,000 is replaced by 12,982,875,000 dinars. My proposal refers to an increase in the funds for the development of agriculture, and this is a grant to farmers for the purchase of abandoned and unprocessed agricultural land. There have been more and more untapped areas in agricultural communities lately. One of the reasons is that the possessions are depreciated, that agricultural possessions are small, that their processing is invaluable unless they are aggregated. Many villages have grown old, young people are increasingly leaving villages, so this problem will be even more pronounced in the future. I therefore propose that funds be provided to those who have all the conditions and machines for farm processing, so that they can buy these unprocessable areas and create larger processing areas that would be suitable for larger plantations, in this way through the organisation of commodity producers, so that they can get much larger agricultural production, and thus the money invested by the state would be returned quickly through the export of agricultural products. On the other hand, the raw land would be put into operation. If the government does it for agriculture next year as it is this year, then agriculture has nothing to do with it. The main promotion of Prime Minister Dinkic for the previous budget was that a lot of money was allocated for agriculture. The papers were written, TV was published, but it hasn't been more difficult in the last 15 years for farmers. In the last 15 years, the prices of agricultural products have never been lower, even though they were of childbearing age, never have farmers made less money because they could not cover the cost of production. Senior producers from Merošina thank the deputy prime minister, who organised a meeting with producers and exporters. Before meeting with farmers, the price was 22 dinars, and after meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister, the price fell to 15 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9470	Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Labus, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9471	That's right, and at the meeting I suggested 23 dinars, there were a little 23 dinars for you, so you got 15 after, and the next time you came to a meeting with me, then you accept what I suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9472	The replica was answered by Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9473	I think the Deputy Prime Minister misread me. The villagers had no one to complain to anymore, so they had little confidence in this government and somehow fought to reach the vice president of the government. All exporters paid a surplus of 22 dinars, and when they came to the Deputy Prime Minister, the export lobby came, they were guessing, and in the end no deal was reached, and the peasants had to give a cherry for 10 to 15 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9474	Mr. Labus, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9475	Look what it looks like when it's too long, nice. We made a deal on 23 dinars, but the cherry producers wouldn't sign it, and that's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9476	I thank Vice President Labus. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the SPS, I have proposed this amendment for a reason and with a desire to increase the amount of 60 million dinars to the Department of Plant Protection, so to speak, for the reasons that our forests, along with forests and orchards, are extremely threatened by lepers. Just to remind you, it's official information, because in the press it was, somewhere around 360,000 hectares of forest in Serbia is threatened by this attack. It's about 10% of the total surface area. What professional services are following in the field, the facts suggest that there is an even greater danger for the next year. I am aware of the lack of my amendment for not proposing which items to be reduced, but I expect the Government, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, to monitor the development of this dangerous vermin and perhaps just from the current budget reserve, to allocate funds if it takes note of the disaster. If there's a willingness in the government, I'm prepared to withdraw this amendment. I withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9478	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I remind you, according to Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, can set an immediate day for the vote on the draft budget during the session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. I set the date for voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 and the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans for 2005 on 20 November 2004, starting at 02.40 hours. Take five minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-19-0.u9479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're going to vote on the 1st item of the agenda. Before we go to the vote, please determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. Found that we have enough MPs present to vote. We move to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. We also vote on a Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2005, with projections for 2006 and 2007, and proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2005: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Work, (g) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (d) the National Employment Service. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. For 131 against 56, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the amendments, written through the amendment, were withdrawn by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic, who submitted the amendment on 15 November 2004, as well as an amendment delivered on 17 November 2004, Goran Knezevic to members 1 and 2. Proposal for a law, Vojkan Tomic on Article 7. Proposal for a Law and Dusan Proroković to Article 8. A bill of law, with a correction. During the search of the draft law in particular, the amendment was withdrawn by MP Zoran Angelkovic to members 1. 6th and 7th People's MP Ljiljana Nestorović to Members 6th and 7th People's MP Jovan Todorovic 1st and 7th with correction and MP Branca Stojanovic to Article 20. I also remind you that during the search of the Bills, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of Members of Parliament to Article 7. Arsen Đurić and Predrag Markovic and Article 18. Milan Markovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 57, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 131 of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 131, 56 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, a abstentioned one, not 57, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 57, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 58 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 105, it did not vote 58 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 106, the two abstentions, were not voted by two, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 105, two abstentions, were not voted by two, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, 57 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivadin Lekic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 105, two abstentions, three of 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 108, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 127, they did not vote three out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 106, 57 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 128, they did not vote three out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 130, two of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 129, two of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 130, two of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22 against 107, it did not vote 58 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 58 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 58 of the 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 127, they did not vote four out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, he did not vote one out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 131 of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 58, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 129, two of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, against 58, two of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 131, 57 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Milena Milosevic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 128, with 58 abstentions, was not voted by one of the 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic and MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 128, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 129, two of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 129, one of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 20th Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Hranislav Peric submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 107, he did not vote one out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Markovic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 59 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, as a whole. For 131 against 57, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. Having adopted the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations for 2005. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2005. For 130, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2005. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2005. One of the 132 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2005. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities for 2005. One of the 132 MPs did not vote for 131. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities for 2005. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2005 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. For 131 of the 131 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute for 2005. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's 2005 financial plan. For 131 of the 131 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's 2005 financial plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the first item of the agenda -- the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 -- by this vote. I'll tell you later about the session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 190 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than 84 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stanisa Stevanović, Veroljub Stevanovic, Natasa Micic, Dejan Rajcic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović (before noon). You have received a notice from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the legislator of the Bill on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the withdrawal of this bill from the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the first item of the agenda and its decision on it, and given that the second item of the agenda - Bill on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been withdrawn, according to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. The sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for today. Because of the large number of amendments that arrived for this sixth session, I'm postponing her start in 13.30 hours. (The session is closed in 12.53 minutes. )
