ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-09-0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the sitting is attended by 220 MPs. Since the electronic voting system is not in place and in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to raise their hands and the service to do the count of the MPs. I find that the count found that there are 220 MPs in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Natasa Micic, Ispanovic Istvan, Miloje Savic, Aleksandar Popovic, Vuk Draskovic and Dragoljub Micunović. In accordance with Article 81(4) and Article 80(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly on Monday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Elections of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and the Proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in order to create conditions for the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as soon as possible and to elect another vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues, with a call for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was called upon by 90 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which were submitted by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 2. The draft decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Boris Tadic, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Since it is proposed that the draft acts in the established agenda be considered by emergency procedure, the committees responsible have considered these proposals and submitted reports, which were given to you directly before the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the election of the MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received the bill, which was submitted by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Krasic on the bill. The amendments that will be submitted to you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, until the opening of the original search, will be served to you; if that is the case, nothing has arrived. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there a proposal to extend the time of the debate? No, I don't. I find that the debate will take place within this time limit established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they need to participate in the debate, to submit their lists. I can tell there's no record of a hearing. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposing representative, MP Zoran Krasic, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I don't remember it ending this fast. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The proposal is to add a new Article 4a after Article 4. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision, submitted by MP Boris Tadic, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. You have received reports from the Administrative Board and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there a motion to extend the debate? No, I don't. Is there a request for a hearing? No, I don't. ) Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Boris Tadic, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one has come forward on this agenda point, we have completed a unique search of the motion for a decision, and this concludes a single search. Since we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm making today a day of voting. We'll approach the vote immediately. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the election of the MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE (vote) Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill on Amendments of the Law on the election of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly in principle. Who's in? Everyone. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted this amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? Everyone. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as a whole. Who's in? Everyone. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Selection of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (vote) After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I put to the vote the draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Who's in? Everyone. Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After considering all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I expect, and you will be informed, that we will have the next extraordinary session on Thursday. Because it is necessary to activate the electronic voting system by Thursday, I believe that the session will be scheduled for 12.00 hours, and that at 10.00 hours, it will begin with parliamentary groups of training by MPs who have not had experience with the electronic vote so far.
