ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10562	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 121 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Slobodan Mihajlović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Dejan Rajčić and Takac Istvan. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Rights of the Borians, Military Invalids and Members of their Families (resumption in principle) The Word has a National MP, Blagica Kostic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10563	Ladies and gentlemen, in last night's session, a member of the 100th was injured because a representative of the SRS spoke in a very offensive manner to the motionary. The proposal was proposed by the SPO parliamentary group and in one ugly way, Mr Nikolic addressed the president of the SPO. This law is an opportunity for the Serbian state to be very clearly determined according to World War II events. Also, this is a formal act on the reconciliation of two Serbs, who for 60 years were not enough to get out of the trenches. The modern world organizes travel to space, and we still share in partisans and Chetniks. I'm just asking that this bill not be used for another trial of the SPO, which is the promoter. We had enough time, everyone had enough time to propose a law like this and to propose peace among the Serbs. If it had been done in the 1990s, I believe the outcome of the wars would not have been what it was. Once again, I ask the President to explain to the people who do not understand that the legislator of this law is the SPO, with the names and last names of 13 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10564	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic spoke very rationally yesterday, absolutely rationally, not insulting anyone. On the contrary, speaking of what is necessary in Serbia, and what has not happened in Serbia in the past ten, fifteen, fifty and sixty years. Tomislav Nikolic spoke yesterday about the need for reconciliation in our country, not digging up further and deeper war axes. Tomislav Nikolic spoke about it when it came to the Ravnogorje movement, they should not insult those who were on the Partizan side and participated in the anti-fascist fight, not to say in the very explanation of the bill – not all partisans were a social foundation. Of course not. So you're saying that most of it was a social hostage, as most on this side are said to have been the best part of this society. Let's not do that. That's what Mr. Nikolic is talking about. Speaking of which, whether or not it is said about Mr Draskovic, I would much prefer that he spoke of Ustashas and those who commit crimes against our people in Croatia as a social hostage. Interestingly, he did not have such words for social reasons, even now that they have arrested one of our students for an alleged incident at Ban Jelačić's salary in Zagreb. He did not have such words, but said – needlessly caused by a political incident and unnecessary political protest, because people wore a picture, a photograph of General Mihajlovic. Why? Because some people have forbidden a man to show up with such a personal tattoo to play a game. That didn't bother him. It doesn't bother him to say one moment – we want to talk to you, but you have in mind that you are coming to Belgrade with the Ustasha flag of the Ustasha Independent State of Croatia. Three days ago in Zadar, you had a walk of Ustasha phalanges in black uniforms, with the same flag rising here as the banner of the state of Croatia. For that Ustasha flag, he didn't have a word to say. It's a national flag. Under that flag were slaughtered men in World War II. Here, as if some prefer to talk about fighting between two brothers in Serbia, rather than what we have killed more than a million people by Ustasha in the past and in this war. It's like we can't react. Their Ustasha anthem is intonated here as an official national anthem. The Ustasha Anthem of the Independent State of Croatia from World War II is today an official anthem of the Croatian state. (President: You're out of time. I'm done, Mr. Mikhailovich. That is not what Mr Draskovic had to say, because these are the democratic processes that lead us to Europe. That's what we're talking about here. It is time for this story to end in Serbia and for historians to say the last word, but to know clearly what is the interest of our people and how and how to protect our people. That's what this was about, not insults at the expense of any politician or anything like that. I am fully convinced that the citizens of Serbia have not only understood the discussion of Mr Nikolic, but have fully welcomed, no matter what side they were on, because they have seen a reasonable approach to solving problems in Serbia and burying war axes. What we have to do is protect every single one of our own, whether his descendants or ancestors were on the Partizan side or on the Chetnik side, from those who want to destroy our country, and protect them from Vuk Draskovic, and from all others who take care of everything, except the state of our people and our people in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10566	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10567	I'm one of the legislators of this law. I don't think there's just a SPO behind us, but millions of victims in World War II whose families suffered a lot. Our law does not aim to divide people, among the Serbian people. A little bit different from my colleague Blagica and I realize that Mr Nikolic, who made some remarks, perhaps he didn't understand, we're not against partisans and pensions received by partisans. We are simply for the other victims of fascist terror to be kind of respected, because these are numerous families, numerous citizens of this country, one of these descendants unjustly accused of being domestic traitors, that the people's enemies are me too. I think the victims should be respected, because if the Germans as fascist occupiers didn't distinguish between partisans and Chetniks, they shot both Chetniks and Partisans, I don't think we would have made that difference in 60 years. So I think that the discussion in the debate should not have a contentious tone, we should accept together what is a historical fact, which is that Serbia has had two anti-fascist armies since 1941, one of them being Partisans, and the other being Chetniks. Their fight was against the Germans. So, I don't want us to be making a division here today between partisans and Chetniks, but I think it's an interest to join Europe together as a normal people. The Slovenians simply had enough power to determine certain pensions for the equigorians. Let's do it, too, because right now it's not a matter of material gain, it's a law that corrects one historic mistake and it's a moral law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10568	The word is made by the People's MP Bogoljub Pejcic, in the name of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10569	To be clear, here I heard that Vuk Draskovic was resented for not protesting the Gurovic case or for protesting slightly. Please, Mr Draskovic is Serbia-Montenegro's foreign minister. He's not the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the SPO. If so far the official policy of this government and this state has been that the Montenegrins are fascists, how can Vuk Draskovic, as foreign minister, defend the issue against the Croats? As long as we represent the thesis that the Equality is fascists, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and everyone else in the Government can't represent the opposite attitude. Because if Vuk Draskovic represented the opposite attitude, everyone would say Vuk Draskovic is leading the party's private policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10570	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I was saying that all citizens, I would say, when I say everyone, I mean most of them, or I mean citizens of Serbia, because you can never speak for every citizen of Serbia, but the absolute majority of Serbian citizens were dissatisfied with the state's reaction, because for some time now the Croatian state is humiliating both the state authorities, and the citizens of Serbia and the Serb people in general. They're, I don't know if you've met, I'll take the opportunity to tell you, the Croatian state is conducting a criminal action today. In the true sense of the word, I think the Minister of Justice today or this morning is only familiar with it. The Croatian state writes, even for the dead, false powers to individual lawyers, who bodefully sell the property of the remaining Serbs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, usually from Republika Srpska's territory, and thus at a great price, therefore, to fictitious, false contracts, the property of Serbs who still want to return to their hearths. Thus, the Croatian state is seriously continuing the action of ethnic cleansing and the destruction of the Serb people from its territory. I know it's not interesting to some people, they'd like to talk a lot more, and they'd like to be praised for their theft and kidnapping here in Serbia, and that's probably a more interesting subject than what I'm talking about. In any case, we have criticised Mr Draskovic, and we are doing so today, because the essence of his foreign policy comes down to "I'm sorry, sorry and sorry" and every time "I'm sorry" for The Hague tribunal. And now we're going to hand over these of ours, in 15 minutes we're going to extradite them, in 10 days or 20 days we're going to extradite them, and nothing more, and nowhere else. They forbade Mr Draskovic, told him that the persona is non grata, he did not react so as not to violate European civilization relations or I do not know what. People, they're destroying our people and we're here when we talk, we're talking about something that had one aspect west of Drina and Danube and in World War II, the other here in Avnoj Serbia. You had where my father came from, there were no Chetniks or Partisans, because the Ustashas killed all the men's heads immediately in May 1941. No one has arrived to go to the Partisans or the Chetniks. A little further there, a little bit near Kupres, there were Chetniks, in Ship's Chetniks, amongst the Partisans, all went to one side and the other to protect themselves from Ustasha, to preserve the few Serbian heads that were to be preserved from Ustasha in any way. We don't talk about it at all, we can't talk about it, we can't talk about it, because we are able to conduct ideological debates within our country and it's much more important to someone than to protect our country and citizens from the pogroms that are being held against our people today. Now I've told you what the Croats are doing today. We can't talk about it. We want to make it clear to all the citizens of Serbia, the people, that this story of ours, that what our conflicts have been, to end this story, to correct the historical truths of the Montenegrin movement. That's right, but we're not going against those who took part in the anti-fascist fight on the Partizan side, because that's not what we're thinking. That's what we insist on. That's why we ask the state authorities and Draskovic to behave like this, not only when he has to say, or one of you comes out to say, you are here to blame, one of the MPs, one of your colleagues, but let him tell Sanader, let him tell any of the Croatian officials not to act like one. He can't write in front of them. He's just waiting and thinking about whether or not someone's going to beat him up and tell him, it's not European, it's not a civilization act. Serbia must have as a state a determined leadership, with the interests of citizens, our people in the first place, not personal interest, not party interest. If we succeed at some point, then we've done a great thing for our country. If we fail, then we will continue to fail, and it seems to me that this destruction will not end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10572	National MP Zoran Angelkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10573	Dear MPs, by article 100, we must speak the truth here. It's not true that it's on the agenda here that someone wants to declare the Fascists, but those of fascist Germany. It's not the same and there are clear documents for that. Therefore, please provide accurate information. Of course, I understand the SCI, it was created on the Chetnik movement. However, I don't understand the DS, who supported putting this on the agenda, and I especially don't understand people belonging to Bosniak people or Muslim people, as you will, who voted yesterday to put it on the agenda, from the DS. I can also understand that DS voted to put this on the agenda, because she was afraid that the government would fall, because the SPO threatened that if this didn't come to the agenda, the government could fall. Since they find it difficult for the government to drop, because they fear it, only speaking out, they picked up everything they could from Serbia from the MPs yesterday, to put this on the agenda and vote, so that the government doesn't happen to fall, because the DS is more in power than the DSS. That's right. They have more people in public enterprises and ministries than the DSS. Another false thing, I ask that it be corrected right here at the beginning – it is not true that Croatia and Slovenia have evened out the domains and all these others and declared them anti-fascists. That's not true. It is true that they were given social rights, but they were not equalized with the NO movement and were not declared anti-fascists. Here's the point. It's true that the world goes into space, but it's also true that the world doesn't change those who co-operated with fascists, that it proclaims them anti-fascists. It's nowhere in the world. Please, when this law is passed and those that adopt it, that these two things don't even, because that's the end of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10574	Mr. Vukic, then Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10575	I'm just going to take a quick look at what Mr. Angelkovic was talking about. So, just for one part of his exposure, I agree. It is legitimately right and I understand what Mr. Angelkovic said in this way, the ideological reason is that and that, but don't even the Equality Movement in Serbia with Ustashas in Croatia. Whoever tries to do this has committed the greatest crime. Ustashas only killed people because other nations, killed Serbs, killed over 700,000. Members of the Ravnogorje Movement, except in defence, as well as partisans, as well as ordinary people, locals, villagers, Serbs, killed several dozen Croats or hundreds of Croats defending their villages, their hearths, their families. They're trying to tell us today it's the same thing. They have all the same things, with them they have stood up, and have stood up in black uniforms, walking in the freest way, and all support them. They've got Ustasha calling the official policy. At the center of Zagreb, you have monuments and the Quaternik, and Stepincu and all the others. It can't be equalizing with what's here. Don't forget that they were officially involved in Hitler's fascist coalition, the greatest villains of Hitler's fascist coalition. No one has committed such and so many crimes as Croatian Ustashas, no one in Europe. The Germans over the Jews, the Turks over the Armenians, and stood up over the Serbs. It's the third genocide committed in mankind's history. Now someone will, I don't think Mr. Angelkovic wanted it, but you have to avoid any kind of attempt to make a parallel, and we need to make it clear that it's not the same, otherwise it'll all look like Bulajic's films. Things to clear up, to make it completely for every citizen of Serbia recognizable and acceptable, to know who did the greatest crimes, to know who were the worst fascist villains in World War II, if you will after World War II. Maspok failed and failed because it was an organisation of a handful of immigrants and people from what they say is country. No, most of their people were for that. I don't say all of them, but most of their people were for it. Don't let us have any illusions about it. That would happen again. The truth is, of course it's true, and we have to stop it once and for all and let it know to everyone that it's not the same thing. Here they both began as anti-fascist movements, and there they were never anti-fascist movements, but as one of Hitler's most respected members of the coalition. The second is what the villain Broz did after World War II, giving the Ustashas to come here and play football in Partizan, to be the best goaleers in our clubs, to be the most respected personalities and never go to jail, and they killed not know how many people, etc. (President: Time.) ) From Mark Valoc, until I know which they stood up and the natives. Not to talk about other things. That's what we have to talk about here today and protect both Serbian citizens and our people who have suffered so much and who have so many victims on both sides of Drina without talking about Jasenovac as the largest site of the Serbian people. That's all I had. We in the SRS just wanted these and these dilemmas to be resolved. You know our attitude. We're for the law and reconciliation. We will not participate in further divisions, we do not want to participate in any debates that will bicker and divide our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10576	National MP Nikola Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10577	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the replica is not Mr. Vukic, it's Mr. Angelkovic. Since Mr. Angelkovic said it was very important, I think the truth is the most important. Parliament is here to make decisions in favour of the truth. Mr. Angelkovic said it was of interest and not to say that the Equality is a fascist organisation, but that they are associates of the occupation. For the sake of truth, and I will share with you after a document that clearly speaks about the truth on the day of 19.06.1943, in Suvoj Radojkovic, a raid on a German police squad was carried out and eight people were killed and seven people were wounded. In terms of a statement by the commanding general and commander in Serbia, it was shot, for retaliation, at Vidovdan, 575 supporters of Draža Mihailovic and communists, of which 324 in Krusevec. Among others, the gunmen were: Radovanović Ivan, without interest, born in 1924, gang leader Draža Mihailovic; Ognjenović Rade, farmer from Tristenik, gang leader Draža Mihailovic; Petrovic Petar, Đurić Miloje and Mikić Milorad, also from Trstenik, gang members Draža Mihailovic; Dimitrijevic Aleksandar, baker, member of the Partizan gang; Živić Mihailo, air captain, member of the Partizan gang; Savik Vladimir, after the war called Jan, a member of the Partizan gang; Prelevic Vukosav, member of the Partizan gang. The Germans, at that time, on Vidovdan, did not distinguish between the Chetniks and the partisans. For them, they were both, practically, anti-fascism fighters. What happens after the war? These five are people's enemies, and these other five are folk heroes. In Krusevec there is Živić Mihaila Street, there is the school "Savić Vladimir-Jan", and the families of these shooting Chetniks are folk enemies. These families suffered a lot, their assets were taken from them based on confiscation. In a few days, maybe months, we'll have a restitution law. How do you repay property to people who, under this law of enemies of the people, were taken away from all property and were shot by Germans? Therefore, for the sake of truth, you have a document in both Serbian and German, which clearly announced the German command and was glued to the whole Kruševac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10578	Replica, MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10579	I don't know how Mr. Wolf got out of what I said I tried in any way... I answered the line about this discussion, so you abused the Rules of Procedure, if you'd come forward with my discussion about the replica, and then you tried to get out of it to compare the Ustashas and the brushes. First of all, I didn't mention the Ustashas. I mentioned the janitors. Secondly, I am precise that it means even Croatia, which is mentioned here in the explanation of the discussion, neither Croatia nor Slovenia has equated the locals with anti-fascists, which is a big difference, but has given them social rights. The Ustasha's crimes are all said, we can add more, enough is Jasenovac. Anyone who has the right and who considers himself to be an anti-fascist, I support that he has the right and that he has the status of an anti-fascist. The one who cooperated, and you can't say that a significant part of the Chetnik movement didn't co-operate with fascist Germany and that it didn't participate in the liquidation of Serbs, that as a Chetnic movement, it's equalized with anti-fascists, because it's illegal. It's the end of history. That's what this is about. It will be the only country in Europe that has managed to do so, there are historical documents not of Serbia, not of communists, but of historical documents in all centres, and if you will in Washington and London, wherever you will. And in the end, the king gave up Draža Mihailovic, too, it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10580	The word has a National MP, Bogoljub Pejčić, here you are, in the name of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10581	Bucky, Bucky, I would like Bucky to explain this collaboration a little more in detail, and I would ask him who was headed by Milvana Gilas in Zagreb in 1943 for an agreement with the German command and with Pavelic, when Vladimir Velebit, who was then in Zagreb and in 1943. What they agreed on. You can find that in the book of Veselin Đuretić. So, they agreed, if the Allies happen to land near the Adriatic or the Adriatic coast, then the Partisans along with the Germans and Ustashas will defend the Adriatic coast. This was answered by the Chetniks, if the Allies land on the Adriatic, then the Chetniks will allow the Allies to pass, and they will also fight against the Partisans and the Ustashas and the Germans. It's a historical document, Mr. Bucky, and it's a fact, so I'd like to ask you to deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10583	Just two sentences. British military missions arriving from 1941 to the Chetnik command units left the same May 1944, as they were convinced that the Chetniks were not fighting on the side of the Allies, but were colluding with the German occupation authorities and troops, and concluded agreements with them on non-aggression, arms and material assistance. That decision was made by the head of the British military mission, General Armstrong. US military missions that have been fully arriving since September 1943 also left Draža Mihailovic headquarters, i.e. I'm a fan of Draža. US Colonel Matt Dauer, by order of his government at the end of 1944, comes and decides for the same reason to leave the headquarters. Therefore, these are world documents, not communist documents and some of our archives.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10584	Mr. Pejcic, here you go, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10585	Mr. Bucky forgot that the date he mentioned coincided with the date of the Tehran Conference, when Churchill, Stalin and Roosevelt decided to write off the movement of General Draža Mihailovic. It just matches the same day of the same month and the same year. Have little Bucky read the talks, the stenograms from the Crimean Conference, when the Allies decided to share interesting spheres and to make Serbia communist. That's when Armstrong said what he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10586	The People's Messenger Blagica Kostic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10587	Ladies and gentlemen, a member of 100 has been injured. Mr. Angelkovic accused the promoter of promoting fascism and of answering, of course, two questions. He asked why the DS supported the bill. Because the two uncles of DS President Boris Tadic were killed by Partisans in 1942 in Montenegro. Also, I want to answer why, and since these are facts that many probably don't know. So why do Muslims support the proposal of this law? This is what Mustafa Mualic, the Muslim champion of Livna wrote in 1943: "I can tell you that we Muslims did not have a better and safer protector than General Draža Mihailovic. The Muslim question, our friend and protector, does not ask on the basis of political-party observation, but only on a national basis and as such wants to solve it, without setting the conditions to bear the name of any flowers, any hearts and any spine. What Uncle Draža said, what he promises, what he commits himself to, and how he concludes, it must be fulfilled, even with his dead head. In this man the word is more expensive and the honor is greater than life." What Mr. Angelkovic forgets to say is that after October 1944 the largest site was Belgrade, Cačak, Sabac, Leskovac and Pirot and that the liberators, without mercy, as a government, so, as a state, killed more than 100,000 people. He also forgets to say that on December 29th 1945, Politburo CK KKKJ was held, on which Tito ordered Gilas and Rankovic to stop killing Serbia, as no one is afraid to die in Serbia anymore. It's true and it's a fact, and everything else is a matter of arbitrary interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10588	The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10589	I promise I won't answer again, even when I'm asked, because there's time for a debate, but I didn't understand why Mildice was DS's lawyer. He has DS members and let them come out and he'll explain it nicely, it's a long debate, he'll explain why they supported this coming on the agenda, why they chased the MPs in Serbia yesterday and that they had to come at any cost, to secure the quorum and to get this on the agenda. That's their thing. It belongs to a political party that belongs to the Socialist International, which is nice, and I understand that. That's their thing. Let them decide, the treasure doesn't have to be a lawyer unless it's authorized. Let them handle it, Tadic and Vuk Draskovic, that's their business. The first thing is, I condemn every murder, no matter who it came from, whether it came from partisan or from Chetnik. No matter who killed whom in the justice of God, what our people would say, I condemn those murders. I don't want to legalize any murders. Besides, this isn't about me trying in any way to condemn the entire Chetnic movement and all the people who belonged to the Chetnik movement. So I told everyone who felt no matter where he belonged, that he was involved in an anti-fascist fight, he should get that status, but not by deciding that someone who belonged to the Equality Movement should be an anti-fascist. That's not possible because that's not true. Besides, my end wasn't partisan. There was Juhor, there were Chetniks and I know what they were doing. There were no partisans so there was no conflict, that's not it. My grandfather was practically a member of this king's army, not a member of Titus's army. So it's not a question, either, but this isn't about personal relationships. This is about the facts, it's about the fact that King Peter's second order was to put the Chetnic units under command, which some Corpses could have done, which they did. Those who didn't do it can't be anti-fascists. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10590	The word is from MP Veroljub Stevanovic, head of the SPO-NS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10591	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I almost didn't understand Mr. Angelkovic, but that doesn't matter. The problem is with us. I listened very carefully to Mr. Nikolic yesterday, I understood him, but it touched me a little and I'm glad that when he said that maybe the biggest point in our history was the Chetnik movement. I'm leaving the Parliament of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities now. Why do I tell you this? Because I'm happy that Maja Gojkovic sat next to me. If you understand me well, you understand me. So, a representative of the Serbian Radical Party and the mayor of Novi Sad, and I am happy, with a great desire to co-operate and with a great desire to end this tension that someone wanted to return to this hall. Aren't the facts important, my lords? As one Democrats said earlier, they were both in the woods and one and the other were shooting at the Germans. To tell you others who are for the fact, which we are, we were born after those times: My lords, what did the West say about Draž Mihailovic, the Chetniks? Who's getting the monument? Who were they celebrating? Who was the first man in the occupied part of Europe to raise his voice against the Germans? So, give it a little bit to reconcile these passions and give it a little bit so this law makes sense, it makes sense. Let's not make it by adapting it to another federal one now, because it's like a valid one, and now we have to put one amendment in which, among other things, it says that they didn't fight the same way as these others, they did 85%. So, I figured out the perfect intention why, right and wrong. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this isn't the arena, 1941 and 1945 passed. They're almost in each other's graves, all of them. It's our turn, because of history, because of what we all know is that things are being brought on and there's no point in collecting political points like this. We have nothing more to say to you. We're just saying there's a history. Let's not write it from a party angle. There's a history that's written. There's a fact. Let's do it for those who are mostly in graves to change these things. Let's not talk to each other like this. I ask you all to complete the discussion, to vote on the law and to correct this great, great injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10592	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10593	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this long series of replicas, allow me to present what the SPS parliamentary group thinks about this issue. I wouldn't go into debates within the Chetnik coalition, that's your business. As far as we're concerned, the SPS considers that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not acted correctly in this case. The government of the Republic of Serbia was obliged to give an opinion on this bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not give that opinion. The ministry responsible for these matters gave a negative opinion on this law. Why is that truth hidden from the public? The government of the Republic of Serbia should take responsibility for itself and say it supports this law or not. As far as we're concerned, I must say that this kind of vote by the ruling coalition will cause some repercusion to our relationship with these parties. As for historical reconciliation, historic reconciliation, as regards the Socialist Party of Serbia, was made the day the Socialist Party of Serbia voted for Draža's grandson, here present Mr Vojislav Mihailovic, to be mayor of Belgrade. We voted for him to be replaced by Zoran Djindjic. Also, historic reconciliation is that the authorised representative of the proposings Bogoljub Pejcic is in very correct relations with us Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and we worked together on some jobs. The historic reconciliation is that the SPS supports the government in which the SPS is located. The historic reconciliation is that Vuk Draskovic was vice-president of the federal government at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule. The historic reconciliation is, of course, that we have defended Milan Gurovic more because of his tattoo on which the character Draža Mihailovic is from the very Serbian Renewal Movement and Vuk Draskovic. It's a historic reconciliation and we are for historical reconciliation, but we're not for falsification of history. That's why we don't think this is an ideological question. If anyone here thinks they're discussing communists and Chetniks here, if anyone here thinks they're discussing left-wings and right-wings, I think they found the wrong subject. It is essential here that the following question, anyone who has fought against fascism, anyone who has fought the occupation has the right to be both anti-fascists and those who have been granted rights based on the fight against the occupiers. Here's the basic question, is it just everyone who's listed here in this law? Are there those who worked with the Germans and the Italians? What about Nedic? What about Milan Nedic, whom they called the Serbian mother, whose units entered the Ravnogorski Movement in autumn 1944, into the army of Draža Mihailovic. Will his own members have rights under this law? What about Kosto Pecanci and Djurisic, who received an iron cross from the German army? What we're getting here is the continuity of what started in the early 1990s, in one nihilism towards everything that was communist. The destruction of the busts of folk heroes, the people who gave their lives for this country, the desecration of graves, monuments, the change of street names. In Belgrade, you changed the names of all the streets that bear the name of a folk hero or a partisan. You even changed the names of the streets that bear the names of even Russian generals and marshals. The Americans and the English did not release Belgrade. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: they bombed him. They bombed him, but they didn't release him. They bombed him several times, unfortunately and in 1999, as well as in the '40s. As far as this is concerned, this debate is burdened both by politics and by the redistribution of past conflicts. I ask each of us to consider how many people in our families are going to hurt by this debate and vote, how many of our families are scattered on this matter, and we insult them today? One of these families is certainly the family of Draža Mihailovic, whose grandson is now chairing this session and I apologize to him if in all these discussions he can have something that offends the memory of his ancestors. But his family was also distracted by the Chetnik and Partizan movement, because the children of Draža Mihailovic were on the other side compared to their father. So I'm going to talk only in quotes and historical facts, not talk about data, about co-operation with Germans and Italians, I'm not going to talk about crimes, but I'm going to talk about historical facts. A few days ago in 2004, Serbia's Archives published a book, which concerns a series of minutes from the royal government's session, the immigrant government, which was held in Cairo and London. I'll just quote something. The preface of this book, which was published in 2004, not 1945, not in 1955 or 1985 or 1991, but in 2004, reads: In December 1942, UK officials first told representatives of the Yugoslav refugee government about the co-operation of individual commanders Dragoljub Mihailovic with the occupier. The strategy, which avoided the struggle with the occupier and awaited the approximation of major European fronts to Yugoslav space, sought the biological protection of Serbs and a computer with uncompromising calculation with ideological opponents, proved wrong. Shortly after that, on 11 May 1943, the UK government sent Dragoljub Mihailovic a kind of ultimatum, which has conditioned any further assistance with the resistance to axles, co-operation with British troops in the Middle East, avoiding conflict with other resistance carriers. Also, as already said here, Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill agreed at a conference in Tehran, as leaders of the anti-hitler coalition in November 1943, to assist Yugoslav partisans with maximum aid in supplies and equipment, as well as in commando actions. Winston Churchill, in his letter to the foreign minister at the end of 1943, openly pointed to the collaboration of the Chetniks with the occupier. I quote, "I would say we agreed in Cairo to advise the king to remove Mihailovic before the end of this year." All Dickin's and McClin's statements and all the reports received confirm that he was actively cooperating with the Germans. In August 1944, Churchill said in the British Parliament - the reason why we stopped helping Draž Mihailovic and his Chetniks is simple. He didn't fight Hitler. We are resolutely on Tito's side because of his great and brave struggle against the German army. Winston Churchill, not a Yugoslav communist. Also, Churchill says in his memoirs - there is no love among the nations, there are only interests. Our interest was that during the war on the territory of Yugoslavia, the Germans were killing as many as possible and Draža Mihailovic avoided it, because he had a bill of his own, so we started helping Tito since 1943. Franklin Roosevelt, the president of the United States, in 1944, also said -- Tito's decision to fight a Nazi turning point is in the history of World War II. It's interesting what Benito Mussolini said in his letter of February 27, 1943 to Ribentro. Benito Mussolini says - the Italian army, and the German army are no longer able to dissipate the Partizan guerrilla, which requires fighters who were born in the Ustasha areas, which are Chetniks and who belong to the same tribe, as well as the uprisings of the Partisans. Eight thousand Chetniks mean a German, Italian thing now more than two or three divisions. Also, as I said, here is the record from the cabinet session, held on May 18th and 19th 1944, chaired by Prime Minister Bozidar Puric; the Prime Minister says - his Majesty King was today invited by the president of the British government, who asked him to change the government several times earlier, and to abandon General Mihailovic's army minister from the government. As I said, at the request of the British government, Petar II Karadjordjevic, the Yugoslav king, in his speech published through Radio London, said: "When the day of our freedom is in full dawn, I call on all Serbs, Croats and Slovenians to unite and join the People's Liberation Army under the marshal Tito. With my full knowledge and approval, the Royal Government of Dr Ivan Šubasic concluded important and useful agreements with our people's army, which is unanimously recognised, assisted and supported by our great allies. All those who rely on the enemy against the interest of their own people and their futures and who do not respond to this call will not be able to free themselves from the treason mark in front of the people or in front of history. With this message of mine, I strongly condemn to you the abuse of the name of the king and the authority of the crown, which tried to justify co-operation with the enemy and cause dissension among the combating people in the most difficult hours of his history, using only the enemy." King Petar II Karadjordjevic. Also, as you know, the Yugoslav government in the refugee country has taken action against those who remain on Dragoljub Mihailovic's side. Also, the King for the Liberation of Belgrade says - Long live the People's Liberation Army and the hero Red Army. I welcome the freed Belgrade with the deepest gratitude for the National Liberation Army and Marshal Tito and so on, Radio London. And in the end, everything I said I didn't say anything I made up. I've read the historical documents, but allow me in the end, Vuk Draskovic is not formally proposing this law, but he is the president of the party that is proposing this law. I think it would be very good, and I'm going to use his words in favour of the argument that I'm making today. On August 23, 1974, Vuk Draskovic published in the "Express Policy" in a number of extensions a feljton titled "The Last Chetnic Conspiracy". I'll read you a few pieces of that felton. Express today 23. 8. In 1974 the publication of Wolf Draskovic's "Last Chetnik Conspiracy" begins. The store begins at the end of 1944, when a new head of the US mission comes to Serbia, tasking Dražina's army, which has collaborated with the occupiers, with trying to make alleged fascist enemies. Since the end of August 1944, the Chetnik Supreme Command has been most solemnly welcomed by an Allied plane, or passenger, who flew. It was American Colonel McDowell. Draža Mihailovic was very pleased to see the arrival of the new head of military mission, when he was officially rejected as a collaborator by London. He knew that the Colonel was one of Titus's most powerful enemies and one of the poorest anti-communists in the West. He realized- as Vuk Draskovic writes - the American colonel and that the whole world knows, in Yugoslavia Tito's partisans are fighting giant fascists. That face before the end of 1944 was too stupid to deny it. It was supposed to prove something else, that even the Chetniks were fighting the occupiers. Or, for God's sake, how to prove it – written by Vuk Draskovic. McDowell, thinking a lot, was angry at Mihailovic. Couldn't he just line up, that at least once, but only to hear it and find out in the world, attacks the Germans – says Vuk Draskovic. Couldn't he at some convenient opportunity to capture five, ten, no longer needed, Hitler's soldiers, so that the photos of the prisoners were sent to the world press, to prove to the fact that General Mikhailovic and his Chetniks were fighting a liberating battle. Even if he couldn't do so much, he writes, "Vuk Draskovic." Written by Vuk Draskovic -- while Tito fought to free Belgrade and the whole country, the Chetnik commander planned to free any place in Herzegovina or on the coast. He needed falsified evidence that he was fighting and nothing else. I'll just quote a few more sentences. Even then, when he was told it was now or never, he didn't want at least one bullet to hit on his masters. If human dignity were to be appreciated, Draža Mihailovic would truly deserve the epithet of a worthy servant – according to Vuk Draskovic. He continues, however, to show all the dignity of his betrayal, and to the people in which he has denied it, he has defied much. He, objectively, could not, at least formally and at the end, raise his hand to the fascists, the greatest enemy. Let me not spread this topic any further. Let me just name another title for Vuk Draskovic from that famous feleton. In the amendments, we'll quote more parts of that feltton. Today's debate is that the Chetnik movement of Draža Mihailovic is anti-fascist, or not. In 1974, Vuk Draskovic writes – a hell of a plan by the military to present himself as anti-fascists. I express a lot of respect for the consistent, as Henry Ibzen said – be who you are, but be it till the end. But Vuk Draskovic has shown that he is not the best promoter for what we propose today. On the other hand, Vuk Draskovic wants current freedom fighters sent to The Hague. It is also well known that this law will be discussed positively today by many who from 1945 until the 1990s were various committees, commissioners, former communists, Kumrovian students. This law may also be voted by children of communists, folk heroes, etc. I am not surprised that other right-wing parties, DS and members of the Socialist International vote vote on this. The DS gave the quorum yesterday to begin the debate on this vote. They're left-handed. One thing, it turns out not only are they not leftists, but also on the other hand, it turns out that they know well, that Zoran Djindjic is alive, the DS would never vote for this law. The King has given up his sworn army. You want the king and Draža today. Perhaps I expect this Chetnic coalition to propose a restoration of the monarchy soon. As for that, we are very unhappy that this law is on the agenda, but we are also very pleased that there will be a clear division in Serbia on the left and on the right. In the elections, everyone is courting the fighters, although in Serbia it is not such a relationship in the electoral body, in this parliament is in the majority of right-wings that stem from the Chetnic tradition, and the DSS, and radicals, and the SPO, and DS and NS -- and in part the G17 plus because some fighters voted for them. In Užic, the fighters called for the DS representative to be voted in the second round. The city's SUP Belgrade committee is calling for the day of the release of DS representatives, and is not calling for representatives of the left. I want to say in the end - while there is an SPS, we will preserve the memory and cultivate the tradition of the People's Liberation Movement. Today's debate is contrary to some expectations, cannot change the outcome of World War II in the area of the former Yugoslavia. Winners and defeated can't change their roles, but that's not the most important thing. I repeat once again that for all of us and our history, present and future, it is not the most important ideological question, nor who is the winner, who has been defeated, but who has fought for freedom, and who has collaborated with those who have occupied the country. That's important, because one who forgets his history is doomed to relive it. (President: Time.) ) Let me finally express my gratitude to all those who gave their lives for their people and the state in World War II as the poet said – the worst appear in peace and the best in the war. Regardless of the war flag, regardless of uniform, they deserve eternal glory. Historical reconciliation does not mean causing re-distribution and conflict. Historical reconciliation means that both children and grandchildren of Partisans and Chetniks, both left and right, and Republicans and anarchists, that both Serbs from one side or the other, Drina, Danube and Sava, realize brotherhood and unity within their people in defense of the interests of their people and their country. It's essentially a historic reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10594	Mr. Pejcic on behalf of the promoter, then Mr. Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10595	Mr. Dacic, you've said a lot, I've got something to write down, something I haven't, but I have to repeat my earlier words in the opening statement, that I didn't want this assembly to be a historical court. But you're just dragging us into this unwanted struggle to prove who's right and who's wrong. I'll start with your last finding, where you read the young wolf. I'll tell you something, Mr. Dacic, and the communists have been staring at young Marks. Do you know why? Because young Marks was a left Hegelian. You just started to be proud of him when he wrote the famous Utopia about a classless society. That's when old Marks was acceptable to you. I don't know what the young wolf wrote, but I know what the old wolf has been saying for the last twenty years about the right-wing movement. After all, it has already been said that Vuk Draskovic is not the legislator of this law, so let's stop talking about him more. As for your quote on the British order, or Churchill's, to kill the more Germans in Serbia, you did not quote the dépes of General Draža. Yes, we want to kill them, but after the Serbs in Serbia, they won't be, because a German was shot at by a hundred Serbs. For a wounded German, 50 Serbs were shot. I understand you from International, you Serbs have somehow not come as brothers, you have worked the whole world as brothers. At least you took care of Serbian national interests and what will happen to Serbia after that reckoning you wanted. Not you, Mr. Dacic, but your ancestors longed for. It's a good thing Draža did that. As for King Peter, King Peter was then 22 years old and was manipulated by Churchill to give up the Equality Movement in favour of the agreement of the Tehran Conference on close co-operation between Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill. The young king repented later, but it was too late. That mistake was only corrected by the Americans in 1948, when General Draži was awarded the greatest medal and acknowledged to the eunuchs the anti-fascist struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10596	Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10597	The biggest danger of this debate is precisely in the historical assessment of the roles of individual movements, anti-fascist movements during World War II in the area of former Yugoslavia and Serbia-Montenegro today. I have experienced this bill as a desire for true reconciliation, as one of the elements of a possible reconciliation that would stop the debate on this issue once and for all. There are other ways I regret that they are not in parliament today, which could contribute to the closure of this reconciliation process, which is the law on rehabilitation, the law on restitution, these are the laws that could go at the same time. This substance, which changes in this way, is contained in several regulations, in the Law on PIO, is contained in the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters who were, before the Constitutional Charter, a federal regulation, and now automatically became a republican regulation. It gives basic rights, and the law that changes today is an accessor law that does not give basic rights or determines the statuses. But this bill is before us today, it has a certain meaning, and because of that meaning, essential meaning, the DSS has decided to support the putting of this law on the agenda and, ultimately, it will vote for this law. What is its basic meaning, so what is the essence of what is proposed? The bottom line is that we are not discussing historic events during World War II and breaking the interests of the great forces of the countries of allies who fought against the countries of the axle and whose geopolitical decisions have been re-percussed in this area, they have had a re-percussion on small states and on the peoples living in these countries. These are all elements that affected certain events in our country at the time and certain positions of certain movements, their decisions in which they will use the opportunity to fight against fascists, occupiers. What matters to us here, and that's one simple little thing we forget all the time in this debate when we talk about this. That's what we're going to do with those people who have responded to the call to take arms into the guerrilla movement, with one goal, the sacred goal, which is to fight Fascism to the free country from the occupiers, and not with all of them, what we're going to do with those who died in that fight for this reason alone, just for this purpose and for which it doesn't seem to matter what kind of mark they had on their stroke, whether they had a star five-point or a gambling. What about those who died, what about them if they became permanently disabled in that fight, if they weren't able to work and live normal after that, and if they lived 45th in 46, 47, and 48th, they left their offspring behind. And the problem was that for decades some of them had been granted the honor, and some only because of the belongings of one movement, although in this way they suffered, it was not recognised. Someone here earlier in his debate said, so the least problem is that with those who lived, healthy and all of them survived, alive and well welcomed freedom, we cannot even discuss them and should give them credit and honor for what they fought for, and say penance for those who were not in that fight were honorable. This is about those who are victims, just for that sake, and that's all we have to talk about in another way. The law proposed here has its own shortcomings, and because of these shortcomings, the DSS has tabled amendments to this law. These amendments had only one goal, for the regulation proposed here to change this bill to be applicable or relatively applicable to that category of persons to which it applies. Namely, the Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and the families of fallen fighters determines the subject of protection. It's not this law, it's the other one that's in force, it's a republican regulation, and it was federal. It determines what a fighter is, determines what a wartime military invalid is, what a family of fallen fighters, as defined by it, a member of a family of a military disabled. Basic rights are established, and those rights are defined there. It's the right of a fighter, it's primarily a combatant supplement, we have the right of a military invalid, members of families of fallen fighters and members of families of military people with disabilities, personal disability, care allowance and assistance. This is what people who have worked in municipalities and work in local self-government are all aware of, because they are competent to determine, the authorities of the administration are also competent to establish concrete solutions to adopt under these rights, orthopedic supplements, health care and other health protection rights, etc. Not to mention. We have, therefore, rights for members of the family of a fallen fighter, a family invalid, an increased family disability, etc. It should be borne in mind, when we talk about the overall context of the application of this regulation, that Article 74. The law on fundamental rights, therefore, this former federal, current republican law of this matter, regulates what are the obstacles to the exercise of rights under this law, and hence the law that is now being amended. Among other things, it is said that in the case of persons who have defected to the enemy, or who have been co-operated with an enemy or persons convicted by a judicial verdict for participating in a war on the part of the occupier or his accomplices, as well as persons convicted by a judicial verdict for war crimes. So this is about individual determination of the right and individual attitude towards the persons who participated in the fight as fighters and this fact must be determined individually. Here it deals with the historical assessment of the role of individual movements in the context of this law and thus condemning the persons it undoubtedly has and who have fallen for the freedom of this people, no matter what they had on their cap, it makes no sense. So that way this debate doesn't make sense to lead. This provision, which has not been amended, is in itself sufficient to protect the national interest. Of course, in order for this whole matter to be resolved, codified regulations should be passed in this area, the ministry should propose competently to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should propose to the National Assembly the adoption of a single codified regulation in this area. This area is now regulated by the Law on PIO, this law, whose amendment is proposed. The status of a fighter, the way it also determines its rights, the establishment of these rights, ended in 1978. After 1978, de facto could not even establish a new status. He can't be determined by this law. That's why we've given certain amendments. The amendment that we've been talking about here, but this is a debate in principle, I must say, it's an amendment to Article 13. The bill that speaks of the amendment of Article 24 of the basic text of the law is just trying to draw up one situation, one problem which the biller fell into when he defined Article 13 of the Law and said that the holder of the Partizan Monument in 1941 and the Equality Monument to the user of the permanent monthly income under the Law on Fundamental Rights, what I was just talking about, is the difference between the received income and the amount of 85% guaranteed for the holder of the Partizan Monument. So this text of ours is identical to this. The only difference is that these people don't have any permanent monthly income under the Fundamental Rights Act, because it doesn't exist. Their status has never been established. It is possible to make that difference between some other income, current current pensions and this amount of 85% of the guaranteed amount for the holders of the Partizan Monument. It is the text of the bill, which 13 MPs have submitted, and it says so. So, we've only tried to make this provision applicable without just leaving a naked letter on paper, because the declarations are a nice thing, but it's very good that one declaration is followed by at least one realistic law at the moment when the law is passed. That was the key reason why these amendments were proposed. Therefore, since these rights are, in their very essence, individual and since the whole law and purpose of this regulation is based on an attempt to honor those persons who, above all, were killed in the anti-fascist struggle and the struggle to free the country from the occupation, this is the main and key reason why this law should be voted on, and to leave these high-mented debates, historic debates aside, the role of the axle force, the role of the Allied forces, as did their geopolitical decisions in Tehran, Malta, Yalta, etc. These are the things that reflect on small countries, on their premises, reflect on certain political decisions by certain leaders of certain movements, which, in their very essence and their essence, were created as anti-fascist movements and as movements to free the country from the occupiers. So here we need to talk and speak for the little people and their victims, not for the world's policy and world war wind that made certain geopolitical decisions at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10598	National MP Miloljub Albianic, head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10599	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the G17 plus fully agrees that for the inner peace in our people and the security of its democratic future it is necessary to face the past and correct decades of old injustices. The law on the rights of members of the Yugoslav Royal Army in the country, namely the Ravnogorje Movement, is a small step in that direction. G17 Plus, before it was turned into a party, sought to contribute to this great process, and Mr. Mladjan Dinkic even as the governor of the NBS suggested issuing a bill with the image of our great historian and President of the Yugoslav Royal Government in Refugees, Slobodan Jovanovic. Today is the most valuable banknote our people have had in the past 40 years, but the injustice towards Jovanovic himself has not been corrected yet. You know very well that many in this room have learned and moved on to the works of Slobodan Jovanovic. The G17 plus therefore advocates that, together with the law on the rights of members of the Yugoslav Royal Army in the country, and the laws on nationalisation and restitution, a comprehensive law on rehabilitation is passed. G17 Plus supports the law on the rights of members of the Yugoslav Royal Army in the country, but we believe that it is contrary to the interests of these members and their relatives and descendants, the only association regarding this law to be a matter of the material rights of few survivors. We don't think there should be a word of revenge, nor a small number of our poor and dissatisfied pensioners. Justice must also be done to those who have not experienced it, who have not experienced our times and those who have disappeared in the flames of the greatest civil war in Serbian history. Therefore, this issue must be above party interests and its resolution must only be part of a major process of justice and reconciliation, justice that must be done to all those who have fought for Serbia's freedom and its people. The truth is that injustice can't go out of date, but justice, unfortunately, can come late. So above all else, all of us who lead Serbia into a new century, above all, is beyond the need for instruction, and that is, by our deep conviction, the greatest fluid of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10600	Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10601	I just checked in, but I didn't want to disrupt this order of the chiefs of Parliament clubs. I wanted to say that Mr. Pejcic, as an authorised representative of the motionor, of course, misread my words. I tried to be very tactful in this short 20-minute presentation, since this is a topic that can be talked about for days, and to choose words, not my own, but those who wrote about Draža Mihailovic. I don't know if Vuk Draskovic wrote it as young or as old, because I don't know when he's young, when he's old, because every few years he changes his mind. In early 1991, which Mr. Pejcic knows, because he was then in the "Serbian word", the SPO organised a Serbian Guard that was already in Gospić at the front in autumn 1991. That's where the heroes of the Serbian Guard died. Now Vuk Draskovic is talking about how war criminals are. I don't know if he was young then, and now he was either younger or a little older than when he wrote about Draža Mihailovic. Of course, everyone has the right to change their minds, but it is so degutant that they change their minds about Draža Mihailovic the one whose party proposes the adoption of this law. I understand that this law has been proposed by those who have been Chetniks since 1941. Speaking of Chetniks, I'd like to remind you that you're taking the word Chetnik here. It wasn't made in 1941. Chetnic formations are the most famous formations of the Serb army, which was formed in Macedonia in the second half of the 19th century to free Turks. The Chetnic formations were also liberating armies in World War I, and it is well known from where I come from, that the Chetniks were the organizers of the War I War I, the only free territory of Europe that was enslaved by Austro-Hungarians. Of course, one part of the Chetnic formations openly collapsed with the Germans and the Italians. I asked that question, the Chetnic formations entered Nedic's formations. Are they fascist fighters? Is Djurisic a fascist fighter after receiving an iron cross from the German army. Even our Costa Pećanac, from my neighborhood, didn't exactly celebrate in World War II, and I would remind you that Costa Pećanac before Draža Mihailovic formed brushes in World War II and fought them. In the end, it is unknown whose hand was liquidated in Sokobanja at the end of World War II. So here when we talk about this, I didn't want to insult the feelings of those whose families belonged to the Chetnik movement. Whether it's a child or a Chetnik's grandson or a Partisan, it's absolutely irrelevant. Let's not rehabilitate these topics that we're talking about today, let's not legalize our relationship with the occupier. I'd like to tell you, the occupier can... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... be, there are plenty of them, but believe me, it turned out that in the time of the German occupation, however many occupiers there are even more who would like to be their servants, and even at one point the German army begged Serbs to stop ratting out each other at the Gestapo in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10602	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10603	In Belgrade, people drank coffee on the terraces while hanging from a German army. Therefore, I wanted to be gentle today, if you provoke me further, I can also indicate what Vuk Draskovic, the young Wolf, did not know if the wolf was then, means, the young Wolf was talking about Draža Mihailovic; he says – and Pavelić, and Rupnik, and by the way, Draža, but after Stalingrad, it was clear what was waiting for the great Germany, times back, even if they wanted him, however, there was no. The crimes committed to obedience and dog's loyalty to the end. Everyone has the right to change their mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10604	You've been over two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10605	This has gone too far. I can't change my mind at the speed of the clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10606	The word is Nikola Jovanovic, a national MP. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10607	Mr Dacic and I couldn't answer the previous discussion, but it is a historic reconciliation and the fact is that the SPS gave its vote to Mr Mihailovic for the mayor, for the president; it is true that this is historic reconciliation, when it comes to voting. However, we have an obligation to make our victims and our historical graves historically at peace, and that's the fact we're going to have to do. Mr. Dacic said it doesn't matter whose grandson he is, whether he's a Partisan grandson or a Chetnik grandson. That probably doesn't matter today. Today matters which party it belongs to, unfortunately. But in times after the war, it was important whose grandson he was. I think the aim of this law is simply to correct the injustice that has been done to a large number of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10608	Here you go. On what basis are you answering? According to the Rules of Procedure, please state by which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10609	A 100th insult, they taught him wrong at school when he was raised up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10610	Here you go. Radovan Teodorovic, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10611	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law has been proposed for the purpose of reconciliation, and in order for reconciliation to occur, there must be equality, and in order to do so, history must not be falsified. Since there are many MPs who are my generations and a little older, if you remember correctly, you know that we learned at school that the Serbian uprising was raised in the White Church on July 7th and you know who raised it, Zikica Jovanovic the Spanish; and who was killed, killed by Bogdan Lončar, the current representative of the then government who came to destroy that fair, because at the time there were no gatherings. That's true. In order not to argue here, Mr. Dacic quoted the king as supporting the government and Tito after the war and all that, so that you forbade him to return. I want to tell you that my grandfather didn't believe that the king would return to Serbia, but he came back. The prince has returned, but he will be king, if God will, I assure you that we will welcome Serbia to be a monarchy, and then all injustices will be corrected. You are the very witnesses of how many gatherings are in the memorial home where he was the leader of an anti-fascist group, and take good care of how many gatherings are held at a gathering in the flat mountain, where we support the first guerrilla in Europe. This came from the people too, just to remind you, our people say that Cica is alive, he did not die, while Serbs and Serbia. We carry it in our hearts and we won't forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10612	The word is Mr. Dacic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10613	The more discussion goes, I'll read as much of this feltton as I can. As far as we're concerned, as I assume, you all know, I didn't live from 1941 to 1945. As you all know, I wasn't born on November 29th as Vuk Draskovic. There's a story that he wasn't born just then, there's this story, that's what I was about to say, but since these radicals are best men with him, they know it better. So they say it's actually the 29th set up to celebrate the Republic Day. That doesn't matter now. I'm not getting into who was saying what. I did not ban King Peter II from returning to the country, to understand each other. King Petar rejected Draž Mihailovic before World War II ended. As for that, the prince is here now, and I just said, Chetniks who are not for the king are a little troublesome. Now, will you suggest introducing a monarchy? Perhaps you'd like to suggest, just to discuss who's going to be king. As far as we're concerned, we're always about the president of Serbia for everyone, even the kind of guy Boris Tadic is, to be chosen by the people, because he can change him. If you have a king, the president is an electoral monarch, and this is the heir of the monarch; and in 1941 the king fled the country and left his people and the state, and in ten days he capitulated this glorious king's army. As for that, I don't want to go back to history. Let me quote another paragraph from this feltton, he says, "Two bestial groups, Ustasha and Chetnik, start a manic game in generations. Hercegovina is full of caves, and in the past, all the pits were filled with poor and innocent naked people. One was cast into the abyss by the Ustashas, and the other by the Chetniks, and the third by the horsemen, and the Chetniks and the occupiers together. "Vuk Draskovic, young or old, anyway, 1974. Come on, is there a real Chetnik here to defend the Chetniks, not former communists, the Kumrovite students from the DS or some others who have now remembered to defend the Equality Movement?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10614	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10615	Article 100 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I feel very hurt as an MEP, whose president is Vuk Draskovic. I understand Mr. Dacic, he's so scarred. I understand, and you didn't say, Mr. Dacic, anything that Mr. Draskovic himself didn't say in the interviews he gave himself. He explained why he was registered to be born on November 29th and he did not hide that his family was Partisan. So I'm also not going to hide that my father's family was Partisan, and my mother's family was equivalent. I can't be a Partizan or a Chetnik, I'm interested in being a normal country, where we will normally negotiate and cooperate on the most important national matters. I understand Mr. Dacic is so angry with Mr. Draskovic. Mr. Draskovic is the only surviving witness to the communist way of dealing with political inexperience. Also, there's something else I have to say Mr. Dacic doesn't know. In 1953, in an exposé that he gave to the National Assembly, Rankovic said that 3.5 million people had gone through Ozna and Udba from October 1944 to the end of 1947 at the SFRJ premises. So nothing further, just facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10616	The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Mr. Nikolic, I didn't see you pick up. I'll give you my word right after Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10617	I was really trying not to be scarred and to recite in my tone the sharp sentences that were once written by Vuk Draskovic. If he was so passionate and passionate, I apologize to the entire Serbian people for him. As far as I'm concerned, I'm glad most of the things I've quoted here have been admitted. I don't want to quote anymore. You admitted that Vuk Draskovic wrote that. You admitted he was a young wolf back then. You admitted that he was enrolled on November 29th, honoring the Republic Day, in a book born. I have nothing more to add. I just think as far as that goes, I respect the consistent. I don't respect those who court the fighters in the election, and eventually vote for the Chetniks. I do not respect those who must not publicly say that they are for it, sitting in the Serbian government, but are using this proposal of the Serbian Renewal Movement because they will not propose it themselves. Spread out and say it's you. It is clear that there is a division in this House on the left and right and I am pleased. That the whole of Serbia finally sees who's left and who's right. You know there are many parties who want to be a fake left. This is a chance to show who's on that side and who's not. As far as these other crimes are concerned, I would not go in, but I have talked about Ibarska masteral a hundred times and everything else, but the Serbian Guard, I remind you, you formed the Serbian Guard in 1991 and sent it to the battlefields. Giška, Nebojsa Simic, Stjepan Šamanić, Rade Lovrić, Zoran Trbojevic died. Whether they were war criminals or they were fighting for the Serb people or was then a young wolf, and now Haradinaj is good for co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10618	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spoke on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and we agreed that none of us would speak of this agenda anymore. We thought you really liked reconciliation. You know, when a peasant buys a pig, there's a problem with what he's gonna do with the other pigs in the barn and then when he puts a new pig in the barn, all the pigs are sprayed with gas or something to sort them out. You, here, are proposing a law that will calm us down and make peace, and you've come across a very big fight. I think you've bought it. I don't know whose idea it was to argue over this bill, but stop fighting. There's no reason at all. You're proving that nothing can reconcile you anymore. You're both for reconciliation, let it all go, let it stay, let it be buried. Everyone has already buried him, and now MPs are opening a debate before the very fateful days that await us. I have the name of the Chetnik Duke. I lived in the father-in-law's apartment who was the first fighter, he passed away. You think that bothered him? It's not. He appreciated what I did and kept saying – you did what I did. There in Glamoch where he went to fight was only a Chetnik. If there were partisans above the village, he'd go to partisans. The only division was which unit was closer. Don't talk about Draža anymore, or the king, or Titus, or Shubasic. That history is written. If you want that debate, schedule some scientific gathering. Let Serbian historical science finally define what who did it, and we'll find out. We are not ready enough today and these days to open a debate on the matter. You will find in every army, in every unit you will find the righteous and the other one who is not. I gave Serbia more than that King Peter the second. If he could have called for reconciliation, here I am to call you for reconciliation. Stop it. Let's pass this law. Anyone else want to talk? Don't insult the others, don't challenge the replicas. You didn't propose a law to cause a fight, and you held back a little, because if they start talking about what you killed, there's no end to it. Indeed, the Assembly is not the place where we're going to talk about which the ideology of more Serbs killed because they killed each other. These German retaliations were for Chetniks and for Partisans, and you know it, because they massacred members of the Sanitary German column by joint action on the hill. That's where the punishment started. I'm breaking up, I'm really interrupting, I'm just asking you, and I told you yesterday that I knew who suggested it would cause a debate. There are many honest people among you, you should have come out in public, not Vuk Draskovic. This is all about Vuk Draskovic and you know it well. Mr. Dacic, if you've had a historic reconciliation with Vuk Draskovic, don't pay any respects to him now. If he was good enough for you to be foreign minister, no more mistakes, no more -- I've forgiven him, but I haven't forgotten. When you said goodbye, you forgot. It's a real reconciliation. We're not taking part in this. I suppose you have no intention of picking on us, because we're going to answer you anyway. I ask you to stop among yourselves, a team before you have blessed the post-Communist, post-strategic communist period enjoy each other. This division began in 1990, when some seemed to be good now, profitable to be Chetniks. Mr. Aligrudic is right, if you wanted the rights to equality, you had to write a serious law. If we pass this law, find me a municipal official who can pay the equgoreans a dollar. He doesn't have a foothold, he won't break the law. He'll go to jail. It was supposed to be done studioically. Don't mind that former federal, and now the Republic law. He's the source, I told you yesterday. We could've adopted a declaration about reconciliation and recognition of the rights of the eunuchs and not open this at all, that we're not in this business. If you really want some rights to come true, it has to be done much more seriously. If you'd read that law, you'd see that even the grandchildren of the Partisan monument bearers have certain rights, they're alive. If they have a disability that lasts, they have rights. Why don't we provide it to the grandkids? You didn't predict how they'd prove to be justos. Who's going to testify to them?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10620	Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10621	As far as that goes, the SPS is in the interest of reconciliation. We accept co-operation with all political parties, regardless of whether their ideas are roots, political ancestors or direct ancestors from this or that political movement. Of course, I have already said that the historic reconciliation between the SPS and the SPS fell when Vojislav Mihailovic was elected mayor of Belgrade by the SPS votes, because we thought it was an interest to bring down Zoran Djindjic in Belgrade. The SRS had a historic reconciliation earlier, as the president of the SRS, as we all know, and the president of the SPO godfathers. Therefore, do not honor us for this historic reconciliation, we are a little late. As for that, it does not prevent us from criticising the moves and what Vuk Draskovic is doing now, but please, I did not quote Vuk Draskovic today to attack him. Today, with the views of Vuk Draskovic, I challenged the SPO proposal, the truth of young Vuk Draskovic. And finally, with 60 years of victory over fascism this year, I hope that with both interest and great patience we will wait, next 2005, to see how 60 years of victory over fascism will be celebrated and who will be invited to celebrate the day of victory against fascism, which will be held around the world. We'll wait for that moment, and we'll talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10622	The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this debate has shown where we are, and where we are as humans, and where we are as people. She also showed that not much has changed in our relationship, in our thinking. And I'm not sure, Mr. Nikolic, if it were good to talk about the declaration, we'd only hear a lot of ugly things then. I mean it. I don't understand, Mr. Dacic, why you speak with so many charges. I don't think there's a reason, it's a long way from that 41, and that 45, so here we are not telling you, I'm telling you cold heads, I'm aware of history and the fact of what happened in those 45 years to the good hosts, and from who. Let's forget it and remember it as a lesson and a message about how we shouldn't do it. If, Mr. Dacic, and yet I'm saying this in a quiet tone, with the desire to really stop the discussion, if the Americans have said what they think of Straight Gora, the highest honor, the monument, then why are you quoting some others? And even Roosevelt, who just gave that medal and erected that monument, and why do you mention the colonel of the American, who came to Ravna Gora, the very one who wanted to, coming to Ravna Gora, to thank General Draža. You speak, Mr. Dacic, and perhaps that's the best and the best thing you've said about the split family of Serbs and at that time, and I can see it at this time. My own uncle was killed somewhere in an ambush, I say on purpose about 45, and he was 21 years old, he was a Chetnik, and his own uncle is a bearer of Partizan monuments, and a second, and a third uncle. That's you, Mr. Dacic, the displaced families, that's what all of us need to keep in mind, and especially we now, to absolutely bring down all the tensions. We wanted to pass a law that would restore justice, that it would be a reconciliation, not that of which you speak. It's not a reconciliation that we're hanging out like we are now, but that the other one would be punished and that's why we're hanging out. That reconciliation I advocate, which we advocate, is indeed a real reconciliation. That we as humans really start to think differently and watch history as it is, that from here on out, we don't think about our constituents. I don't mean my constituents at all. I'm thinking about injustice and it's true that it takes a different kind of thing to talk about here at last. So I ask you once again, although I don't share people on the left and on the right, on other grounds we share, but it's not such a gap that we're completely divided and we're forever divided, we're going to lower the tension, we're going to end this debate, we're going to vote on this law, and at the end of something, it's going to have to start. Where were we in this thing so far? At first, in one untruth, which is still present in Serbia, about a story still someone wants to talk about, argue, come on, we offer it as a start. This law is the beginning of correcting injustice against history, according to this people, towards each of us, and of course there is a flaw. If it cannot be applied, it will be applied by changing this second law. So our goal was to get started. So I'm asking you to start the right way, so we can start calming down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10624	Replica, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10625	The proposer of this law must have had in mind that this would be discussed and therefore I do not understand the intensity of not discussing this. No one can forbid us to advocate our political views. I've already said, I'm not even thinking about whether these were communists during the war, and those for the king, I'm only thinking about who was really fighting the Germans, the Italians, and who was working with the occupiers. Let's talk about it. No one here denied what I was saying was that some parts of the Chetnik units were openly co-operating with the occupier. And do these rights that they get now apply to them too. They are not anti-fascists, as has already been said, to receive their social, pension, but they are not anti-fascists. Nedic is not an anti-fascist. In Smederev, the idea was that the square was called Dimitri Ljotic Square. It was an idea. Is that antifascism? Let's not mix things up. And as far as this is concerned, I'm really trying, I'm having a serious political debate, I'm using an argument, which was helped by Vuk Draskovic, and I'm asking you to understand that. When I was 18, in fact I wasn't 18 at the time, when I was eight years old, when that feltton was coming out, I was reading the paper, and then I was talking, then I thought Vuk Draskovic was right, that's how he talked about Chetniks. I couldn't figure out if he was young or old Vuk Draskovic. I don't know what Velija Ilic was saying at the time, so I don't mention him. Anyway, I don't want to, I don't even know if Vuk Draskovic got married before that 1974 or not, but that's not the point right now. Let's get back to the point. You're asking not to discuss anything that matters. Someone will work with the occupier tomorrow, and we'll let him fight the occupier. Is anyone under a gamble, under a five-point fight against the Germans, the Italians, that one should get all the rights. Whoever fought for the freedom of this people must have respect for this country and for all of us. Unfortunately, those who have died for their people and the state and in the past ten years have no respect from us politicians here. They're being talked about as war criminals, that they're war criminals who are supposed to go to The Hague. That's why this topic is complex. You don't need to open topics from the past like this. We don't open this topic here to argue with each other about it and to open new fronts. But the essential question is what I was just talking about. So don't ask us not to discuss this. You asked for that topic. In your explanation, even in what Mr. Pejcic was talking about yesterday, there is a sharpness towards the second movement in that war. In the worst possible way, he qualified that movement. I would remind you that hundreds of thousands of people in World War II gave their lives for this country and this people, whether they fought under Tito or another commander, it doesn't matter. They all deserve to be given a confession. No one deserves to be spoken of in an ugly way. That also applies to the Chetniks who fought against the Germans. Those who are not should not be qualified as anti-fascists. (President: Time.) That's the only reason we don't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10626	Here you are, MP Dusan Mrvos, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should have thought of only one thing. What we're talking about now has been happening since 1941 and beyond. That year, Serbia looked a little different than it is now. That year in that and such Serbia, words such as honor, face, honesty and oaths had little different weight than they now have. Do not be surprised that in 1941 some who had sworn an oath to the king and homeland were in the uniform of the king’s army and were in the right movement. I just want us to admit one thing now, that both of us, and those who were in the Ravnog movement and those who weren't, that they had the same idea, that this idea was to defend, protect and preserve. The ways in which this idea was being realized were different, so someone, for example, someone from the Royals, the Caucus or someone from Kragujevac, his house in the Kingdom, Čačka and Kragujevac, defended their house in Preljina or Zablac, or in Šumarice, or in Dragobrac, Pečnog, Vitkovac, Vitanovac, Sirci or Rocevic, and someone defended his house in Zagreb, Ljubljana, Foca, Egg or Rud. Someone who defended his house in the vicinity of the Kings did not try to kill as many Germans as possible, for he knew that a dead German killed a table for a wounded 50. Someone who knew where he was defending his house in the King tried to kill as many Germans as possible, and then at the expense of that number of Germans killed, the shooting started on October 14, 1941, and among other things Dusan Stevan Kocic. Born in 1932, the youngest victim shot in the King on 14 October 1941. Dusan Stevana Kocic, who was nine years old, was shot in 1941 by the King because he was a Chetnik or because he was a Partizan. He was shot because he was the number to settle down to the number multiplied by a hundred dead and wounded Germans. I'm talking about how to implement an idea. Someone was trying to keep it, and someone was trying to kill as much as possible. After that idea, ideology came, but I don't want to talk about ideology, and it's pointless to talk about this ideology from this place and this home at all. I just want, as long as it's fast, Christmas is coming, to let us go, to admit that they both had the same idea, to save, to defend and protect each other. We're not talking about ideology. We're talking about an idea. Let the souls of those killed, the dead, the gunmen calm down, no matter what side they're on. All those who, in the name of ideology, committed various crimes, slaughtered, shot, killed, made dog cemetery, committed other crimes, that all of them, who did it then, and that anyone in the future would think that in the name of ideology they were doing something like that, we would remind them of the old Serbian proverb - when a parent eats sour grapes, then the children rot their teeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10628	Thank you. National MP Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10629	I suggest and ask that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10630	Please confirm the quorum. Since we don't have a quorum, we'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the principle search on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. Before the sequel begins, please determine the quorum. Thank you, we have a quorum. Since I am obliged at the beginning of the session to possibly give instructions on how I intend to conduct the session, allow me just one small request that is not abuse of the pay phone. You are all here in front of the citizens of Serbia and you have shown in the previous period that you are able and how to take care of citizens and their future, so I ask you, now that we are talking about this law that regulates the rights of fighters, military peoples and members of their families, participants who were participants in one and another movement of the Yugoslav idea, let us respect the idea that they believed, everyone from different ideologies, and we are taking care of the future of Serbia and we are taking care in our discussions that we do not harm that future and that we are not looking forward to those who today, quite certainly while this debate is going on, concentrate much more on how much the dispute is going on in Serbia, let alone the question of the truth about the past of the Yugoslav idea. Thank you very much and have an understanding of what I asked you to do. There's no one more than the president or the authorized representatives? No, I don't. ) The first speaker is MP Nikola Jovanovic, and let the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10632	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the president for the words of reconciliation, and I think today's session is about reconciliation among Serbs. We heard here from MPs and Mr. Tom Nikolic who thinks, as do we, the legislators of this law, that the time has come for there to be no quarrel among Serbs and that this is something that only separates us more, a lot of evil has been done, war times have been. But after 60 years, I think it's time to admit that there were crimes on both sides and that many innocent victims were declared enemies. In the afternoon discussion, I showed that a large number of Kruševec and people from the Kruševec area were shot at the site in Kruševec. There were ten shootings on one list, including five members of Draža Mihailovic's gang, and five members of the Partizan gang, and these five, I think of these first, were members of the Draža Mihailovic gang, and these other folk heroes. The Germans can't be shot by the Germans, they're patriots who lost their heads because of their anti-fascist definition. The victims of the Germans' shooting deserve respect. I don't think there's a dilemma here, that there's no man in Serbia who doesn't want those people who were killed by Germans to accept as the people who are the victim of this fascist terror. Do you come to reconciliation and how to come? There is a freedom in Kruševec, where every year on Vidovdan, people who have died are burned. Unfortunately, there are no people on the list who were members of Draža Mihailovic's movement. I think it's something that's incompatible with truth and morality. That reconciliation between Serbs may occur, I think, as president of the municipality of Trstenik, since 1996, we have a monument of fallen fighters in Tristenik. You know how, new democratic changes have made since 1990, July 4th and 7th, when the Union of Fighters sets out to pass the Venices, those people who were anti-communists, occasionally even degutantly throw away people who honored people who died during World War II, who were on the part of the Partisans. Unfortunately, we had a war in Croatia and war in 1999 and where a large number of Tristenics died. We made one decision, we made a monument and those fallen fighters who died from 1990 to 1999. Today in Triestenik, where the monuments of these boys who died after World War II are also used to honor each other. I think that Serbs can unite and that these discussions here that practically lead to separation, that out of the environment, from where many see our transmissions, many of us probably also in Croatia, may be laughing. Maybe we're too late, maybe we've lost our chance to get into this law and the victims that fell after 1990, because they're people who deserve pensions and some benefits, even though they didn't fight for privileges, they fought for their country. I once again appeal to all MPs that this is not a debate on who is a Chetnik, who is a partisan, but a debate that says there was a struggle against fascists in this country and that there are victims and families of those victims who deserve respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10633	Thank you. Ljiljana Nestorovic, the MP of the people, Nikola Milosevic, has the word. Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10634	Mr President, honourable fellow Members, when, as a topic of the agenda of the assembly session, there is a law that contains in its explanation such serious and difficult categories, such as truth, reconciliation and accountability, then I believe that it is an obligation for all of us to talk about this matter in the most serious way possible, with the most serious respect for each other's opinions. Unfortunately, the afternoon debate has convinced me that we are not exactly on the trail and that we are unable to discuss such an important topic seriously and solidly. Namely, if the essence and objective of the bill, as the proposer claims, is national reconciliation, then a serious mistake is such a big issue to bring down, ultimately, the right to pensions. If we're talking about pensions, about money, we have a lot more acute topics, those topics that ask questions that citizens are eager to answer. First of all, if we're talking about pensions, we have to answer when we're going to make it possible for a pension of power, to which many citizens in this country are now entitled to live politely. Let's just say, we have to ask ourselves to what extent the decision of the National Bank of Serbia to abolish payment at the beginning and the allowed minus effect will have to significantly increase the number of people who will be on the verge of hunger. But if we are talking about national reconciliation in a way that is worthy of the size and significance of the subject itself, with an outcome that will mean greater wisdom in the future to avoid that tragic history of division of ideological conflicts, which has been following us as an evil cob through the centuries, then we should have discussed in this assembly until we unanimously bring a declaration of national reconciliation or to not discuss at all, but to agree outside this hall, and then to come here all together and to adopt at one occasion, a suitable team, one such declaration. However, to do so requires much more tolerance, above all in this House, more self-criticism and much less exclusiveness, which are the consequence of which I am deeply convinced, not divided into Chetniks and partisans, but a very different understanding of the past, wars of the 1990s, which we have a very divided opinion on, and which is why we cannot or are very concerned about national strategies on very important issues: relations with the state community, on issues of the Constitution, on issues of the Hague and crimes at all. All of these are topics that now condition the present, as well as the near future. So, this proposal, as already said here, and I agree, insists on inappropriate qualifications, which makes it look dishonest and potentiate the ideological division, over half a century old. I have the impression that the proposal itself is somehow on a small door involved here as a topic for discussion in the Assembly, because it came to the agenda not in some very legitimate way. It is inadmissible that we do not have the opinion of the competent ministry, or government. As far as I can tell, that kind of opinion existed and it was negative, so it was withdrawn for that reason. The third question, formally, is whether the proposed law can at all be placed as a point of the agenda of this Parliament until, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the recurrence of criminal proceedings is carried out and, on the basis of, possibly, acquittals, the rehabilitation of persons who were members of the Ravnogorje Movement, convicted of crimes against the people and the state or war crimes. You often say here that you do not recognise the decisions of some communist courts, but, dear fellow MPs, who say so, I will remind you that your courts have also reached a death sentence for General Lear, who bombed Belgrade. Don't we also admit that verdict? Do we not recognize the rehabilitation that these courts have set for those who were victims of the Thessaloniki process and were later pardoned? Therefore, it is not true that the Slovenian Parliament on October 2nd last year, which is being called upon by the proposal, has passed a similar law to what is proposed to the Serbian Parliament for adoption. According to the Slovenian law, veterans' rights have been recognised by all those who fought against the occupiers, but the law also makes it clear that the rights have not been recognised by anyone who has co-operated with the occupier and who has been against the Partisans, the People's Liberation Movement. Fifthly, I find it absurd that the right to pension to the Evogores is provided, as the bill provides, with the confirmation of two witnesses, because I believe it was a cartoon and then when it was done, and it was a partisan monument. Therefore, to conclude, for the SDP, this bill is not relevant enough to put an end to one historic controversy. I also think that it is not enough to support such a bill, with the harshest disqualifications and offensive words addressed to the president of the party that has proposed the law. If so and if this law is passed in such an atmosphere, then this debate, respected fellow MPs, is a simple farce and a waste of time. Then it's just a matter of trying, it's my deep conviction, my intention to take a piss on a big subject, or at least to lose anything from the electoral body that we're already fond of. (President: Please, it has expired for more than a minute. ) As far as the SDP is concerned, the SDP always has its hands out for every kind of reconciliation. I believe that the fight against fascism is one of the brightest points in the history of this people and that in the way we put this topic, and in general the topic of reconciliation on the agenda, so not through resolution or declaration, but in a way that we discuss pensions, we seriously devalue the story, and I think it confirms the course of the debate that has been conducted so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10635	The People's MP Nikola Milosevic has the word, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10636	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the bill on the agenda of this debate, but I will be free to present to you some arguments that we have not heard in the debate so far, which, if I am not mistaken, we have not heard for a full five decades, except on some media margin. This assembly, which consists of parties defined for political democracy, cannot in this debate, nor can it be decided to pass the issue that these political goals have been fought over by the parties that we are having here. And if by political democracy we mean two fundamental principles – the definition of a multi-party system and the integrity of private property, that means the absence of a policy over the economy – and if we measure these criteria the political objectives of these two movements, with members of one enjoying the benefits of this law, which no one has anything against, and those others are denied. I will speak without any moral qualifications or disqualifications, and I will stick only to political assessments based on historically verified facts. Has it been historically verified that the Partisan movement led the KPJ, headed by Josip Broz, and that the KP, as well as all the KP of the world, was a member of an international communist organisation called Kominterna, which had its headquarters in Moscow and which was controlled by Joseph Stalin? You don't have to write 100 historical volumes to prove it. It's a notorious historical fact. Is it unusual that the leaders of the movement, Joseph Broz himself and the party, had for their own political purpose the order that ruled the Soviet Union, which means a one-party political system headed by a leader who made all the key political decisions and, of course, the order in which the right of private property was not respected. The truth of the will, upon coming to power of the KPJ, she had some kind of her own democratic cover or mask, and so on. The People's Front. There were other parties in the People's Front, including the Earth Party led by Dragoljub Jovanovic. The democratic mask fell on the day Dragoljub Jovanovic came to the then two-clip assembly. One was brittle and none, and the other was lush and flowery. Then he asked the messengers of the day what they were thinking, from which the lordships encouraged these two plungers. The scrawny one, of course, was from one state-owned, one agricultural cooperative, and the other from some private land. For this subversive act, Dragoljub Jovanovic has received 10 years of imprisonment. He put up with it. When he left prison and told Joseph Broz, he said: “God’s mother, how fast the time is passing. “ Ladies and gentlemen, when Joseph Broz clashed with Joseph Stalin, it soon proved to be a family dispute, because after that conflict, Yugoslavia remained a one-party state, without respect for the right of private property, and Joseph Broz himself was declared, too, whether we should look for it in books that were not written, for the president of the country for life. Ladies and gentlemen, only Cuba and North Korea had the presidents of the state for life. What was the relationship to private property? Here's another example. You know that Joseph Broz's favorite residence was Briony Island. The Austrian owner of Brion did not cause any interference, 200 peasant landowners were on that island and they did not bother him at all. Workers – peasant leader Josip Broz, when he came to power, drove all 200 families off the island. This same, another example and comparison, once an Austrian owner, built for his own purposes on Brions ten kilometers of roads. Here's a quiz question, how many miles of roads are built for Joseph Broz, 20, 30, 40, to whoever guesses I'm giving 10 of my university pensions, not much money, but I don't have others. (From O.R.: 280) Bravo, you're getting all my 10 pensions. So, 280 kilometers, ladies and gentlemen, 40km more than the Belgrade-Nish highway. Now let us, by the same criteria, judge the political goals that Draže Mihailovic fought for. Draža Mihailovic was the minister of the military refugee government, led by Slobodan Jovanovic, and certainly the most educated and most discreet Serbian intellectual, and a man sincerely and permanently defined for political democracy, as well as his government, as well as the military minister. However, it was dedicated to parliamentary monarchy, and we have heard here for years, for decades, that every monarchy without distinction excluded political democracy and that the republican arrangement was the only guarantee for the matter of political democracy. Let me remind you of two known Republicans: Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin. Such a Republican was also Joseph Broz, who had more authority than any absolute monarch, and yet he did not introduce the inherited principle into his communist absolute monarchy. Of course, I do not dispute that it can be combined with the Republican order, even as it can, political democracy, but anyone who makes the difference between absolute and parliamentary monarchy knows very well that the parliamentary monarchy implies the assets of political democracy and knowledge, certainly, that Serbia had a very early parliamentary democracy during the first Obrenovic government. They were trying to suspend democratic institutions, but no Obrenovic had the power that Joseph Broz had. King Milan, who was a highly educated man, was eager to become a member of SANU. He couldn't. She didn't touch his power that much. Josip Broz, who had a locksmith's school and evening course in the history of the CAPB, who was unable to draw up one written and logical sentence, became an honorary member of the SANU without any problem. He could have, ladies and gentlemen. When he's in power, i.e. King Petar and Karadjordjevic came to the throne, this Serbia had a model parliamentary democracy. This is a true story; Peter I went to the court garden and said to the court gardener: “You have beautiful flowers, but you have no sheath, why don’t you plant a sheath? “ The gardener begins to plant a sheba, the Serbian opposition finds out, and opens up a debate, who gave the king the right to interfere in the affairs of the court gardener. The Serbian parliament has issued a ban on Petar Karadzic to order his future gardener to plant. At the time, of course, parliamentary democracy was abolished by King Alexander of the Bolshevik Revolution in the then Yugoslavia, but even then there were elements of the rule of law and when a peasant sued the king of the court for taking away part of his vineyard, the court ruled in favour of that peasant. Of course, that suspension of democratic institutions would have taken a while if we had then returned to the parliamentary monarchy, the way it was. Now let me look back on that argument we've heard most of the time, which we've been listening to for decades and according to which Draža Mihailovic's movement has been in the service of Hitler's hitleric occupiers, so he's an associate of Adolf Hitler. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know history is written by the winners and we know that the winners of history are often forged. They fake even photos. Serbia was engulfed during the German occupation with posters with two photos of two resistance leaders blackmailed by Adolf Hitler with 100,000 Reichsmarcks and a great fortune in the war. Who was on that poster? Personally, I'm like a man who remembers it a lot as a boy himself, they were Joseph Broz and now, believe it or not, Draža Mihailovic. Now I ask, did Adolf Hitler know who his servant and associate was, or perhaps Adolf Hitler, as a naive and stupid man, was in complete error as to who Draža Mihailovic is working for, so he called 100,000 Reichsmarac in gold to catch him alive or dead. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some allied leaders whose names we have listened to here, so let me read to you what they have written about Draža Mihailovic and his movement. I quote: "We admire you to conduct operations that are of invaluable value to our ally's cause. The material aid we can give the troops may not be as big as we would like right now, but we assure you that everything will be done to provide you with any possible assistance." Signed - British commanders in the Middle East Okinlek, Harwood and Teder. Another man who was in great error about what Draža Mihailovic is working for wrote: "The legendary hero, the symbol of the purest patriotism and the highest Yugoslav military virtues, the general did not stop fighting on occupied national soil, with the help of patriotism he did not stop peaceing the occupier's army, preparing that final charger that would lead to the release of his homeland and the whole world, shoulder to shoulder with those who never considered that a great country could obey a cruel conqueror." Signed by the President of the Free France, General Charles de Gaulle. Ladies and gentlemen, we were able to read and listen to one particular evidence that Draža Mihailovic collaborated with a Nazi occupier; these are the negotiations he had with some Nazi high-ranking officers. Let me draw your attention to two types of negotiations that can be conducted with occupiers. Negotiations can have a tactical character, so they can aim to recover your troops and avoid currently unnecessary losses and try to better deal with some of your political opponents. The principled negotiations mean a permanent transition to the other side, and in this case, a permanent alliance is understood by a sanastic occupier. Draža Mihailovic conducted tactical negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that this is the kind of negotiation that has been led by the communist side. A delegation containing Vladimir Velebit, Koca Popovic and Milovan Djilas led negotiations with the German side, not somewhere on war territory, but in Zagreb, the capital of the Nazi Ustasha Croatia. She's staying, what hotel do you think she's staying at? The most luxurious hotel in Zagreb called "Esplanada", which still applies to the most luxurious hotel in the same city. What kind of proposal did this delegation come with? She came with a proposal to stop fighting between Nazis and Partisans and to help Nazi troops in case the English land on the Balkans. She came here with the task of offering a Nazi side to exchange Joseph Broz's wife, Hert Has, for some captured German officers. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to conclude that the Partisans were fellow German occupiers, but I remind you that there are no two arches for the same thing. They cannot be members of Draža Mihailovic's movement, if they so tactfully negotiate with the Germans, and cannot be opposers of the same logic of German occupiers, these delegates of Josip Broz, who negotiated in the capital city of Pavelic's Ustasha state. In both cases, it is about tactical negotiations, in both cases the permanent determination of both sides was a struggle against the Nazi occupier. Now allow me, by bringing this statement to an end and estimating the impatience there in the last rows, with the sincere hope that those who do not listen to me will not then make any remarks about my presentation, I would like to refer to the famous appeal of King Peter to determine Draže Mihailovic to join the command of Josip Broz Tito. The action of King Peter was not on Winston Churchill's proposal but on the pressure of Winston Churchill. Under the pressure of Winston Churchill, he extorted from the king that call to Draža Mihailovic's movement. Behind all this was Winston Churchill, whom he was implicated, Winston Churchill, who, of course, took care of the interest of his political side and his people, but who did not take care of the interest of the Serb people. This is quoted Churchill's word that Draža Mihailovic had an account of his own. What account did Draža Mihailovic have? When Draža Mihailovic was faced with the fact that the Germans kill thousands of Serbian prominent citizens, as many as were killed in Kragujevac alone, in France for only ten Frenchmen were killed, and here for one German 100 Serbs, Draža Mihailovic estimated that by his calculations it was not as important as the Germans would then be killed but as many Serb heads would be preserved. Ladies and gentlemen, Winston Churchill was not interested in Serbian interests. Winston Churchill took care, of course, of his ally Stalin, with whom he divided Yugoslavia and by that division was formed, not to forget, the first post-war government. On the one hand, he was Josip Broz, on the other hand Ivan Šubasic. Who was represented by Ivan Šubasic? Ivan Šubasic represented the Yugoslav government, the side we haven't been told since yesterday that she co-operated with the occupier. Not that Joseph Broz was sitting in the same government with an occupier? However, after that, it happened, of course, that by not respecting the agreement, Joseph Broz took full power, so when Winston Churchill asked his closest associate, Mr Churchill, so in Yugoslavia there will be communism, cynic Churchill replied – you will not live in Yugoslavia. Don't take Winston Churchill as some kind of authority when it comes to Serbian national and state interests. Ladies and gentlemen, there were, however, those allied statesmen who were not in this cynical but quite different way seen the movement of Draža Mihailovic and him personally, so let me read about it and bring this exhibition to an end. "General Dragoljub Mihailovic has prominently stood out as the commander-in-chief of the Yugoslav Armed Forces and military minister, organising and leading a huge force of resistance against enemies occupying Yugoslavia from December 1941 to December 1944. Thanks to the fearless efforts of his fists, many American airmen were saved and safely returned to the Allied side. General Mihailovic and his forces, despite insufficient supply and struggling under extreme difficulties, contributed materially to the ally's affairs and were part of the final Allied victory." Signed by Harry Truman, president of the United States. Date, March 29, 1948. The explanation - with the posthumously high American award of Draža Mihailovic. Why am I out of date? Because before that date in this same country, Draži Mihailovic was already largely tried and convicted that he was an associate of the occupier and that he, who was so highly rated by Harry Truman in 1948, was shot in a place that no one knew where. Ladies and gentlemen, pet graves are also known. Those who love their dogs and their cats know where they're buried. Draža Mihailovic was buried the way angry dogs are buried. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish with one question. If this multiparty assembly doesn't mind that certain rights are enjoyed by the followers of Broz and Cardell, who fought for a party state, in which there is no uncut private property, wouldn't it be unusual not to say absurdly, that this same assembly deprives those same rights to those who fought for the fluids of political democracy?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10637	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10638	Dear People's MPs... Mr. Prophet, do you have something? (Dusan Prophetkovic, from the scene: I will go out and say what I have. I think it's rude, you're the ruling party. We've been listening to Professor Nikola Milosevic so far. You are a ruling party, but you mustn't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10639	Please don't talk to each other. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Omeragic. Here you go. Please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10640	This is where Mr. Angelkovic of the SPS gave a lie, injured the Rules of Procedure. He said that Mr. Judjevic and I gave the quorum to this session. We do not give a quorum but we will not vote for this law and we want to inform you, and the citizens of Serbia, because it is not well prepared and that this law, which should or should have been proposed, is some law on the rehabilitation of citizens who participated in World War II, because in World War II, citizens of all nationalities participated. There were those who opposed the occupier publicly, some of them are secret, I wouldn't go into it because it would require a serious debate. The law is not seriously prepared, so we MPs, me and Mr. Judjevic, will be against it, no matter how long we go out to have coffee, someone makes up that we're going to give a quorum or we're going to be in favor of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10641	Mr. Dacic has a replica, then Mr. Prophetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10642	I don't know whose statement Mr. Bajram puts his remarks on, but I think it was Zoran Angelkovic, who spoke today about the quorum being given by some members of the Muslim national minority. She was Leila in the O.R., and I don't know what's at stake in that, she gave a quorum. The quorum, by the way, gave DS and, of course, I said in a joke that even the Chetniks were no longer what they were, as the Muslims voted for them. But I didn't say that about the pay phone. On the other hand, being in an O.R., not voting for the law, and giving a quorum in this situation is the same as voting for the law. So, I don't know what the gentleman who spoke was reacting to before I did. The SPS doesn't mind that everyone votes, let everyone plead on this bill, and just don't interfere with the SPS in this story. If there is a conflict within the Chetnik coalition, that's another question. As for Mr Milosevic, who spoke about it earlier, I would only correct him in one. Mr. Shubasic and the royal government in London were not occupiers. It was the government that replaced Draža Mihailovic at the request of Churchill. And that's true. We don't go into these historic discussions. Mr. Markovic was just talking about how we should refer to the law. Mr. Milosevic at least talked about the law itself. He talked about things after 1945. I can tell if I agree with that or not, whether there was political democracy in our country or not, whether it was a one-party system or not, but it has nothing to do with this topic. Did anyone in World War II defend the country or cooperate with the Germans and the Italians, that's another question. I just want to say one thing. Don't ask me to talk about things from 1945, at least until 1966, until I was born. I wasn't even a former communist then, I wasn't a skier, I was never on Briony, I wasn't in Kumrovec, and you who were at least need to talk about it today. So, I've already said, I'm really inviting real Chetniks to talk about Chetniks. So from that point of view, otherwise all of this is a political, political debate that won't lead to a goal. We're okay with this debate, by the way. We're comfortable with this debate taking as long as possible. As far as we're concerned, we'll be taking part in it until the very end, and as far as DS is concerned, which gave the quorum for this session, it's that so-called. cohabitation, and the DSS today along with the SCI in Grozko real power with Bogoljub Karic. That's the cohabitation. One day you want to cooperate, and the next day you want to tear each other down. You've found a topic of cohabitation over the Chetniks, and that's why this topic that's very serious, whether someone defended the country or cooperated with the occupier, is not a topic for a day-to-day political debate. That's what history should be about. I didn't mention any sources of communist literature today. I mentioned foreign sources, according to Churchill, Roosevelt, Mussolini, and of course the pheljton of Vuk Draskovic. The truth of a young man, but I hope he was aware of what he was saying back then. So I don't know why it was replicated for what Zoran Angelkovic said. If it is an insult that you did not do the quorum, okay, I apologize, but that fact itself, you are part of the DS parliamentary group, among them is Dragoljub Micunovic, who is famous for what the team that was doing in Chetniks after World War II, you are giving the quorum today and talking about voting the occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10643	You caused a replica, not one, replica. You've caused replicas. We need to hear them. This is a replica of your exposure. You have a replica of Dacic's exposure. No, they're still replicas of Mr. Omeragic's exposure. Here you are, Mr. Prophetovic, a replica of Mr. Omeragic's presentation, which spoke according to the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense cannot respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10644	Mr. Omeragic, what would you like to mention? I really don't know, and the fact that there's a hundred MPs in the O.R. when you go out for a pay phone, ask yourself why. It's because you can't discuss the past or any more serious topics. Let's first discuss what is wrong with the assembly of Novi Pazar municipality, to return the keys to the municipality's building, to legally establish power, not to legally elect the state authorities in Serbia by citizens of Novi Pazar municipality in a pub. That's why people are laughing at you, and that's why you're laughing at not the parliamentary majority, but all the people, all the MPs who came here to protect democracy and to think about Serbia's future. You're bringing her back into the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10645	Professor Nikola Milosevic, replica of Dacic's exposure. Mr. Omeragic, there is no replica on the line, only if you report to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10646	I'm not much of an expert on the Rules of Procedure of this assembly, but I know so much. If I didn't mention Mr. Dacic or his party, then he has no right to any replica. This is the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I am reporting and I find that Mr. Dacic has abused this pay phone. So, neither his name nor his party's name was mentioned, and he's coming out here, Mr. President, and without any intervention from you, you weren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10647	Mr. Dacic asked for a replica of Mr. Omeragic's exposure, not your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10648	Mr. President, why did he mention my name? I'm a man of my age, but at least I remember what was said five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10649	That's why you got the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10650	I got it, but it's not what I got, because I got it legally, I mentioned it, it's what he got the replica, and I didn't mention it. Now that Mr. Dacic's been looking for a fight I didn't ask for, then let me give him a brief picture. First, if Mr Dacic wanted to prove that Draža Mihailovic co-operated with the occupier, calling on the hay to fence the refugee government against him against the pressure of Winston Churchill, he was given such an argument. That, truth be told, I must admit, Mr. Dacic, you are otherwise an intelligent, educated man, no one has ever thought of you before. Secondly, you say this debate doesn't matter whether or not Tito's Yugoslavia was a single-party state, so you say it can be discussed. There's no discussion about that, Mr. Dacic. It's established, undeniable. If it was a country in which one party ruled, there was one man at its head who made all political decisions and, I remind you once again, declared a lifetime ruler of the state, don't tell me it was political democracy. She wasn't. Your claim that it had nothing to do with this debate, I'm sorry, I could still accept that you stuck to what you're saying. You've gone into such discussions here twenty or thirty times, Mr. Dacic. And if you are already entering such debates and you are politically assessing the side which is not your will, then listen to what can be said and to the side which is yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10651	Mr. Dacic, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10652	I can translate Bajro from Serbian to Bosniak. According to the Rules of Procedure, I think Milosevic misread my words. I really didn't want to get into any trouble with him, and I respect the years he has and the experience and knowledge he has, but in any case, I asked for a replica about Mr. Bajr's exposure, but by the way, I also said what's true, which is that not the subjects of the deal that Churchill extorted were Draža and Tito, but Peter II Karadjordjevic and his government and Tito. Otherwise, as far as Tito's concerned, I'm not sure I like him more than most of you who sit here because you've been after Kumrovec, you've been skimming and political commissioners and don't be ashamed of it. and rode the priest's horse. [[Glasses from the bench: The Horsemen narrate.]] So it has nothing to do with you, but just as Milan Gutovic would say, it can't hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10653	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Omeragic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10654	Mr. Dacic said it was someone else. It's not about the other one. Mr. Angelkovic clearly said that I gave the quorum and didn't talk about the MP group to this one or that one. That's all I've responded to. I said I wouldn't discuss this law. I want to say publicly that I will be against him. As for those who react bitterly when the Sandzak MPs come for a pay phone, that's their problem and the problem is political culture, that you don't have so much patience and tolerance to hear the man say what he's going to say, so that you react. Here are some keyholes, keys, keyholes, etc. People need to know who holds the keys, what, and they need to know some rule of what it means to be a legal state. In the rule of law, ministers don't write statements, opinions, opinions, but if it's a binding act, they write a solution, they write a decision, so they find out who violated the law. Unfortunately, today in our country, which we hear many times they call legal, we have a situation that many local self-governments have not been established and, according to local self-government officials, hundreds and hundreds of demands from local self-government. Somewhere bigger, there is no bigger in Nis, in Novi Sad there is one MP voting like this, it is not, so in Belgrade we have this problem, so we have the one from Zaječar, the mayor said the other day – we are not bound by opinion, in the rule of law we do not have an act of binding nature. If he's binding, the one who writes it and gives it to someone else who sent it, he should say first that it's a binding act. This is what you learn in the first year of the Introduction. Secondly, he says – does what he wrote, we even have two acts, not say that it is called an opinion, but addressed to a function, and inside nothing, does that delay its opinion? What's the penalty if it's not executed? Who's bound to do it, not who's holding the keys in the New Market... (Chairman: Mr. Omeragic, please... )......................................................................................................... There are three private people who do key-making, have a competent person who holds keys in the municipality, but didn't get that keymaker; even the act, the nature of the legal act that arrived at some private addresses is – we should, we thought. It says – the assembly was held in.... (President: Mr. Omeragic, your time is up.) )......................................................................................................... objectively possible circumstances and so on. That who wrote had problems with Radomer Lukic, if he lectured him, by age, and if he studied law in Belgrade, he should have taught and if he passed the Introduction and wrote such writings, it was really extremely problematic, and it was asked by people representing certain ministries, to let such a thing go into communication between an organ called the ministry and local self-government. The state needs to wonder why in dozens of municipalities the mayor interpreted this law, the president of the council in this way and remind you, all of you who were interested in this topic, the organisation of seminars in Vrnjačka Banja, the Ministry of Local Self-Government organised it there and explained it, wrote a manual that divided all listeners and there determined whose powers, whether without the permanent composition of the electoral commission, could be held by the catering facilities, agricultural goods and such circumstances and places by the congregations and so on. Therefore, when the state is serious, it has written a legal act that will be binding, which will have that and that, which will contain legal instruction... (Chairman: Mr. Omeragic, please... )......................................................................................................... And when it's done by the authority that needs to, then the mayor will take such an act seriously, and when he's Supreme Court... (President: Mr. Omeragic, please, just a moment, you've been talking for six minutes. You have three minutes to report to the Rules of Procedure. I've warned you three times. Please finish the discussion. Let me just finish, in the legally regulated states, when the Supreme Court in the disputed situation brings a solution, when the Constitutional Court is challenged to make a final decision, when the keymaker does not, of course, want to inform you, our keymaker is not a graduate lawyer and is not obliged to know that, but is a graduate keymaker, as a colleague would say. Therefore, when you await the Supreme Court's decision, the Constitutional Court, in a legally regulated state, make it clear that it should be done in that sentence, given legal instruction, and as we have seen in the first year of law, then every decision in this country will be applied. Otherwise, they're so-called. Decisions of fun-recreative life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10655	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic, are you answering according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10656	The Rules of Procedure in Article 100 have been injured. The MP behind the pay phone can't insult the other MPs. Mr. Dacic, I've never been a communist. My family died from communists after the war. Their land was taken from them, and as a child, I was tormented, and I couldn't even go back to school because they didn't have the money to educate me. That seeing as someone was a communist, someone at Kumrovsky School, say by name and last name, those people might be proud of it. But the purpose of my going out for this pay phone isn't that, this fight about Chetniks and partisans, and first I'm going to wonder who I am to teach you lessons. This way, please stop it. That's what our enemies want. We've got them, thank God, on all sides. Let's call our brains out. Serbian citizens expect us to work, to pass laws, to bring prosperity to this country, not to argue about Chetniks and Partisans. There were crimes on both sides. If the Chetniks, their children and their grandchildren and hosts throughout Serbia have suffered what the Communist Party has done, so from 1945 on, so don't be offended, you're not communists, you're SPS, you're Chetniks and hosts forgive, so forgive me something, it's Christian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10657	Mr. Dacic picked up the line, so Mr. Petrovic came by the Rules of Procedure. Please don't go to the pay phone until I call you, because then we're not going on schedule, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10658	I'm always waiting for you to call me, of course. As far as I know, the SPS isn't proposing this law. So don't ask the SPS not to participate in the debate. We represent a certain category of population, we represent those political attitudes that we have here. None of us can ask that we do not participate in the debate that you have caused. If someone thought that you could bring an absolute bill without debate, then bring it in, ban the debate. I don't know what I insulted, so you say I insulted someone for calling them former communists. Well, they did. They just said, "Young Wolf." How many of these youngsters were here when we were young, skiers, communists, godmother students among us here? I think only one of the 22 MPs was a member of that famous political school in Kumrovec. Where are the others? No, they're in other political parties. That's why I'm reacting. That's why I kept talking. You have the right to say that, you are the original captain, a proper Chetnik, and it looks like you. Some people don't like it, and that's why I react when some people say it like that. I said today, I'll do it again. Henry Ibzen said, "Be who you are," but be who you are. I can't understand those who wore Titus's staffs from 1945 to 1980, went to political schools, were commissioners, rode priestess and did all kinds of things, and now they're talking about the non-democracy of the regime. That's not what I was involved in, and I have the right to tell you. I have a lot of moral right to tell you, unlike some others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10659	Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Alexander Vukic, another 10 minutes as deputy president of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10660	The Honorable Chairman, I reported to the Rules of Procedure before Mr Dacic asked for a replica, Article 100, for the insult he brought here when he first spoke. It's not correct and it's not fair, but it's your business. I don't understand why Mr. Dacic here is false. The entire political public in Serbia is known that what he said about Mr. Micunovic is not true. The descent of this and such heated debate to an even lower level is not meaningful and it is a shame what Mr. Dacic said. The DS, of course, gave the quorum yesterday and voted for this point to be on the agenda and the DS would vote for this law, because 60 years have passed since the end of World War II and this issue in Serbia has not been resolved in one, and that is our, unfortunate people, who seem to be just looking for acquittals to get into difficult conflicts. Well, I guess at the beginning of the 21st century it's time to close one topic and bury the war axes in one field at least. The DS will do everything possible to promote reconciliation in Serbia and to move towards the EU at the beginning of this century, and unfortunately over some of the topics we have fought, close, and finally, as I said, at the beginning of this century, to move to Europe after 200 years of raising the Karadjordian uprising.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10661	I apologize to Mr. Vukic, but Mr. Dacic has the right to the replica by his rules of procedure to present Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't seem to mention the name of Mr Dragoljub Micunovic in any way, and I don't know why anyone felt called, only if we're playing some associations games. After all, it should come out, when Mr Petrovic has already come out, why he has not responded to this – the Kumrovic students, since there are those in their parliamentary group who were at the political school of Josip Broz Tito in Kumrovec. I don't know why you don't answer the phone about everything I've been talking about. In any case, I just want to ask myself one question to my friends and fellow Democrats, why they, when they were in power and when Zoran Djindjic sat here as Prime Minister and Ceda Jovanovic as head of the parliamentary club, did not propose and pass this law and why they support him today. If SPO MPs, DSS, NS and G17 plus think it's an attack of patriotism and Chetism in the DS, I think they're wrong. I will support this law only to disrupt relations in the parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament as much as possible. In any case, I saw it today, and Natasa Micic was here, she made one statement that this parliament had lost its legitimacy. Since you are not ashamed, comrades and comrades of the Democrats, you who voted from Bodrum, and even I hear from Beijing, from Thessaloniki, say that this parliament has lost its legitimacy. So your decision to give the quorum has absolutely nothing to do with your political ideology and your political agenda. This is where the SPO lady defended the DS this morning, allegedly the DS voted for this bill, because the uncles of the presidents of the Republic and the president of the party were killed as Chetniks. What about Father Boris Tadic? Whose side was he on, was he in Chetniks or Partisans? So whose side were your parents, whose side were Radmila Hrustanovic's parents? If we're talking about it, I think it's extremely incorrect for us to argue here in this way about something that's a fact. The DS has allowed this session to begin. Why did you do that, explain it to your voters. Why do we do this, we also explain to our voters. Everyone watch who's their electoral body. I just don't know if all parties know who voted for them at all. I think in the end, a lot of people will be surprised when they realize what the structure of their electoral body really is. I was just reacting because Mr. Petrovic was later, caused nothing, because I didn't mention any name from the DS, reacting to something called the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10663	The word is Mr. Vukic, as deputy head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10664	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group did not want to participate in this debate, not because we would not have anything to say to our voters, and our voters are all citizens of Serbia, and Chetniks, and partisans and all others who are neither, all patriots, all those who want good Serbia. We didn't want it to be a bad impression with the citizens of Serbia, and we were called today by the break and the Serbs from Vukovar, Borov Sela and Dale, and we prayed not to continue with this kind of fight, for the simple reason that our enemies are looking forward to this most. We asked that no party points be won today, but to think about the country, the state, our people. We here need to talk about it and our citizens today are interested in how they're going to have bread, have cheques to start, live better. People want to live better, not dig axes from 1941 and 1945. It is our job in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and not to share in those whose fathers were on this and the fathers of others on that side. There's no difference between us today and there can't be. I don't want to know what your father was and I don't want you to ask me what my father was. We don't have to explain it to anyone. We need a different one, we need a new Serbia, in which we will show everyone that Serbia can be better and different from what it was. Serbia, above all, is needed today to secure its national interests. I will only tell you about what is happening today in Serbia, and what some have spoken about today, they say, "How can Muslims vote for something?" Why not? Some of the most prominent members of the right-wing movement were Serbs of Islamic religion. Haven't you heard of them? Some of General Mihailovic's deputies were Republicans, after which they remained as members of the Yugoslav Cultural Club in London, etc. Here, we have a People's MP who will vote "yes" – Suleiman Spaho, MP of the SRS. It is not like Bajram Omeragic, who can always do as Suljo tells him, but as it is the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, and not to be divided further by national or by any other belonging. We also have Bulgarian sitting here – Stefan Zankov, we also have Sulejman Spaha, we also have Hungarians, we have everything else, but it doesn't occur to us to make special differences between people who supported one movement or another. What's the problem today is that we have a problem with the country's defence. Some who are salting our minds today and in time unequivocally supporting the occupationr, every day I look at one of the Belgrade televisions of one who screams, at B-92, some Mile or don't know what it is, every day something yells, screams, he and some of his fellow students, all the Kumrov students, or, some say, treated Tito's leg, some of them treat this thing, and today they're salting our minds about European democracy. Some of them, you know, went so far as to be the main singers of the German officers here in the German House, in time, and today's House of Serbia-Montenegro, that they played in front of Anto Pavelic at the Ustasha theater "Sobrioz", that today we feel sick and say Serbs are criminals and tell us that they are fighters for freedom, and that we are all, I don't know, fighters for tyranny or whatever. What interests the MPs of the SRS is who today is for our country, who is for our country. That one was then. Who today is to have a country, to have a state, to have freedom, it couldn't change. You will infalliblely recognize them today, precisely those you see against our people in Kosovo and Metohija, against our people in Republika Srpska, against our people in the Serbian province. Now, I want you to know that they liked working together with the occupier and in World War II, I don't know which side. What we need in Serbia today and what we have to do as citizens of Serbia, that is to say -- people, a lot of it, to look into the future, to look forward and to save the country. We promised Serbian citizens new jobs. Why is there no law on your agenda today? What isn't your law today on pensions, higher pensions, higher salaries? The government promised, the president of Serbia promised. There's nothing to do, but let's get into the debate because it suits some people, because they don't know what else to do in their political life, they don't know how to explain their behavior, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry," and let's put a black bag on people's heads and go to The Hague. It's the only policy we have in this country today. Our citizens won't listen to any more fighting or bickering. They want to hear the arguments. Let it end in any way, but let's say that we have a strategy to preserve the state. Why don't you tell people he's getting ready for March of the Albanian offensive in Kosovo and Metohija, again? Why don't you just say that even foreign services are telling us that, and they want to help us in different ways. Why don't we say some other things, but let's go after ourselves now about who the father was and what he was. I don't have that kind of problem, nor the MPs of the SRS have that kind of problem. We don't have any Godfathers, we don't have those who cheer and dress after World War II, neither in this way nor in that way, there are no wicked people. What we want is what the citizens of Serbia want. I don't want you to share me, anyone in the SRS -- you can get a vote out of this and that. Now, we want the votes of all Serbian citizens, and the partisans, and the Chetniks and all other patriots, because we want a different and better one, we want a reconciled Serbia It is possible that this is the kind of Serbia that the citizens of this country want. [[Tossing from O.R.: It's not possible.]] Those who think it is possible to continue to insist that they are great patriots because they are other great traitors or enemies of their people, you have a problem with themselves and with your people. It also seems to me that it shows the number of votes receiving political parties. That's why I'm proud that they are, and I've been watching the MPs of the SRS and I've talked to them, and everyone's happy that we're discussing it this way, which is why we're making it clear that we want to vote for the law. It's time for reconciliation, for others to get their rights, but it doesn't occur to us that at any time we insult the partisans or all the others who took part in the anti-fascist struggle. It does not come to mind for the simple reason that Serbian citizens want us to solve other things. Serbian citizens want to live better, barely rag the end, every day a growing number of people who go from containers to containers. Serbian citizens want to hear the response of the serious state, Bajri Omeragic. Shut up, you're not answering him. He came out here and said, "No legal acts, so legal nature, so you should, don't play games, Mr. Omeragic, with this country." In this country, most in the congregation of the municipality of Novi Pazar could not meet in the municipality building because some bandits, paid faces, banned these people from entering their congregation of municipalities. Because, Mr. Omeragic, you can do it because there's no state here today. Otherwise, if you were to talk about it and play with the nature of the acts, you could never do it. You're preventing the people's will, it's 26, and it takes 24 MPs who want to form a majority, and you've solved the Sulyocracy there to apply. And if there were any countries, there would be no Suljocrats, Mr. Omeragic. The suljocrat, Mr. Omeragic, is that you have decided to hold and rule, has decided not to give the throne to anyone, free of more votes than he has. That's why our countries aren't here today. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, think about how to solve problems, because I won't tell you that this isn't an accident and this can't be an accident, it's an attack on the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. Is that right, Mr. Aligruditch? Is that right? What is the state doing about it? To fool us here, the whole nation, all the citizens of Serbia, to say the nature of the legal act is like this, the nature of the legal act is like that. We're all stupid. They're talking to the jerks right now. What the President of the Republic does, is intervene on that matter. From his party, from his coalition come direct threats to the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, direct threats. Saved Sulljo, won power and celebrated on the street, and after celebrating her on the street, then she won't back down. Is that right? So in a serious state, Mr. Omeragic, you can't behave. You know, we're always very kind to you. You know how we feel about you. We offered you, will you do it that way, and if you need our seat, you can have it in the presidency. If it's a relationship to minorities or people's religions, here's to you and everyone else. All the rights of this world to win, but to destroy this country, no one can, no one can, nor can Sulljo Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10665	Take care of the weather, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10666	I'm done. Thank you for understanding. So, I invite you, as much as it suits someone to have this debate going on, just to take care of what we're going to talk about our people, what we're going to talk about because, believe it or not, you're going to find it hard to find someone in Croatia today who's going to say a bad word about the greatest villains of the 20th century, what were the Ustashas. For the greatest villains in the 20th century. For people who slaughtered entire families, for 15 people, they were in my father's village, and I don't want to talk about my father's family, taking whole families, children from five years old, up to 70 years old, all men's heads and killing, killing children in the stomach. You're giving us a lecture today, and they're acting like they're not criminals. They're fighting for freedom. What are we arguing about here? About whether the poster was 100,000 Reichsmarks in gold for General Mihailovic or not. Is that our key problem today? It is a historical fact, but I think that the citizens of Serbia are much more interested, I end up, are they going to be able to live, will they be able to survive, when the economy will start, when they will finally be able to live better and provide their children with a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10667	The word has the People's MP Bajram Omeragic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10668	Here, gentlemen, we have also experienced listening to the tirads that Serbian citizens, or MPs towards religious membership, should vote one way or the other and as many members as there are in this House. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10669	Mr. Omeragic, you're obliged to tell the truth about the pay phone, we've had a chance to hear the exposition of the predecessors, here almost 200 of us. It's quite the opposite. I don't want to discuss it with you, you go ahead, talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10670	If you want the truth, you can have the board of inquiry and take...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10671	There's a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10672	A stenogram to take and who here counted the citizens of Islamic, or MPs of Islamic religion...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10673	Go ahead, say yours, Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10674	Was that me or was it someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10675	I don't want to go into dialogue with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10676	Please, as chairman, you're looking for a stenogram and we're going to find out, so if it is, then we're going to have a polling committee, as far as it's concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10677	Time's running out, Mr. Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10678	I ask you once again to calm the messengers down and let me speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10679	Here, you're on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10680	As for the story of whether the nature of the legal act is like this or the way it is, to all those who want and have a legal and emotional desire to get acquainted with this act, I brought it in, read this in writing, and can afterwards take and read about what kind of letter this is about. This is about one letter, not a legal act. It's about making a copy and delivering it to everyone to see that letter. We've heard a lot of discussions here that remind me of the early '90s, when we've had so many outpouring patriotisms, concerns, fears of territorial integrity. As you know, now from this distance, for 14 years we have a diametrically opposite situation, which some were more concerned about the territorial integrity of this country, or the former Yugoslavia, its territory was getting smaller and smaller. People think that by insulting members of national minorities, by silence and by bringing in the situation that MPs, members of national minorities, shouting, shit, preventing...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10681	Time, Mr. Omeragic, I won't let you double your time like last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10682	... And to create an atmosphere here that if it is said publicly that it will be voted, that it causes MPs to be one or the same mood. The constitution and all other legal acts dealing with the right of MPs guarantee that he is a free MP to vote one way or another. I didn't insult anyone if I informed this assembly, and I wouldn't inform her, but on that day when the vote voted on my conscience, I came out here to say that someone before me, I wasn't in the O.R., I said that I was giving a quorum and doing it and that. That's how this debate started. There's been a debate over legal acts. I won't answer any more insults, the citizens who voted for me well know what the relationship between a certain parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10683	Four minutes, Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10684	... And it's unnecessary for me to explain it here. I'm saying that no one's going to make me vote one way or another, under any kind of pressure, no matter how much someone yells, no matter how much he threatens, no matter how he acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10685	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I used to think of Mr. Omeragic as a decent man, and by article 100, I went out. What he said was not only not only notorious lies, not just false lies, but extreme insolence, and I could say a harder word, but I'll hold on. Mr. Omeragic, who threatened you. You threatened there, not only with your fists and your knives, but also with your guns to the people who wanted to enter the city hall building. Is anyone threatening you? Every day we talk nice and you laugh just like you do now. Right, Mr. Omeragic? You're in charge of threats, knives, guns, and whatever else it takes to keep people out of the Assembly Hall. Right, Mr. Omeragic? There is Mr. Vesenović, there are many others and let them tell you what it looks like in Novi Pazar. What threats are you talking about? What kind of 90s are you talking about? I'm asking you, Mr. Omeragic, one thing. What you say about concern for territorial integrity, I ask you to come out for this pay phone and say – Novi Pazar is the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the next 500 years. That'll prove me wrong. Come out and say it, Mr. Omeragic. If you say that, that New Market is the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the next 500 years, I will say that I may have made a mistake and I will take that legal act. But, you know, you're wrong, you know that by violence you hold power. Mr. Omeragic, one more thing. You don't have to get your political points by spreading false fear to your people. No one counted them. On the contrary, I said that there are people of different religions in different parties and they will vote differently. That's why nobody's counting them. Unlike you, there will be those who will vote yes and those who will vote against, but Mr. Omeragic, no one else in this room has taken the right to say to himself – you who have the majority must not enter one room. That, Mr. Omeragic, no one did. You can't give that right to yourself or anyone else, or because Suljo is a better boxer now than anyone else, so now he won't give it to him or wants to give it to him. I'm not attacking you here, I'm attacking the authorities of a state that don't do anything, the authorities of a state who aren't able to deal with banditism because it's their kind of banditism. We had them in various parts of Serbia, and in Belgrade. They won't give power, they see they've lost, they've stolen a lot, they've kidnapped a lot, they won't give power until the last minute, but it's over. It's the only thing that hasn't ended up in Pazar yet. Because it's a specific kind of banditism. This must be stopped, Mr. Omeragic, and I expect you to make a constructive contribution, to say first that the New Market will be the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 500 years, and then to confirm that you will behave in accordance with the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10687	The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10688	Since the debate is extremely interesting, I suggest we establish a quorum at this session and ask you to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10689	Since Mr Dacic asked us to determine the quorum, please place your MP cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum and I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10690	We'll continue our afternoon work. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units, and new parliamentary IDs will reach New Year's Eve, when you ask. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10691	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10692	I'm sorry, Mr. Bradovich, I apologize if I denied someone the right to the line by mistake, because I didn't know what was going on before.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10693	Dear fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will vote against the bill for essential and formal reasons. Technically, this law is very bad, inaccurate, with solutions that are not essential, because this law represents one attempt to revise history and a small doorway into our legal system, in our history and in our reality something that has not happened. By adopting this law, if that happens, Serbia will be the first country in Europe to win after 60 years of victory over fascism in World War II as someone who officially rehabilitated occupiers. The French didn't do it with Peteno either, the Norwegians didn't do it with Quisling, we'll do it with Draza Mihailovic and the movement he led. I say this very clearly, who wanted to read the proposal of this law, and even more reason for this law, could see very clearly that it was about one attempt to review history, which also has an ideological dimension, because all the time it talks about fighting communism. This law was not generally necessary and if it had not been for this political historical dimension it would not have been the subject of this esteemed home. I'm saying this because the Federal Law on Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families very precisely determines who the fighters are in our country's legal system. It is about people who participated in defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, who participated in the 1912-1918 Liberation Wars, which participated in the anti-fascist struggle in World War II. I purposely emphasise this, which were members of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Army from 6th to 17th April 1941, who fought in the formation of Allied armies, who participated in the People's Liberation Battle in World War II, as members of the Partizan troops of the People's Liberation Army and the Partisan troops of Yugoslavia. I mention this very knowingly, because the documents say 60 years after the end of World War II that the Chetnik movement of Draža Mihailovic was someone who did not fight fascists, who collaborated with fascists, with Italians, with Germans, and don't like that, the language of fact should be the language of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The language of the fact is that Mr. Draža Mihailovic, Colonel Draža Mihailovic, was an active associate of the German military force and the Italian army. About the movement, about the character of this movement, there are a number of documents that confirm this my thesis. All we need to do is look at the data of the German Supreme Command, which speaks about the results of the November 1941 talks in Divci. Otherwise, the document became known for the first time to our public in 1981 and where Draža Mihailovic, the German military officer, the commander, was sorry that some other Chetniks participated in the fight against the Germans. He apologizes and says it's not about fighters under his command or that they did it on their own initiative. He disowns those actions against the Germans himself, and we now need to give him other content, a second mark. Of course, the conversation was organized primarily to acquire weapons, ammunition in the fight against communism. This is the essence of Draža Mihailovic's movement, because during World War II with your lie strategy, inform how it suits you, receive help, avoid fighting the Germans and lead the fight against the communists, it was a strategy that eventually cost him and support by the British. On the German commander's claim that in case no military action is committed, Draža Mihailovic says - we will not fight the Germans, even if this fight is imposed on us. The documents are very clear. Why did I say at first that this law was too high? The law is too high because all those members of the royal army in the country, who listened to King Peter's appeal given in 1944, to join the units of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia, received all rights as well as other fighters of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia. It's a very simple thing. They didn't want it because of their activities until then, they didn't decide on such a single step. Otherwise, we have many arbitrary claims about this royal army or the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It is little known that after the April war, a vast number of soldiers, officers, officers, the royal army engaged very actively in the Partizan movement and participated in the fight to free Yugoslavia until the end of World War II. The data suggests that the number of elders of the royal army who were in the National Liberation Army on the eve of capitulation was over 700 in 1943. From their ranks, 96 of them were declared folk heroes, and 38 of them received the rank of generals during the war. While in decades of peace from that category of elders, 157 of them received the rank of General JNA. This is a very clear distinction between those who, regardless of ideological settings, have decided to join the National Liberation Army units and have therefore done to defend the country what, of course, every man should do. I must say that the reasoning of this law also contains certain qualifications that history does not know, which are unfortunately very applicable in our society, in our social reality, especially in political practice. Namely, one thesis was that the beginning of the uprising against the occupier, July 7th 1941, was the first event that the legislator himself said in this law, where the communists shot at others, where the Serb killed a Serb. That's not true. German command data number 599 says communists were arrested on June 23rd and 24th, shot on July 5th 1941, two days before the uprising. I say this very clearly so that the thesis that the communists were the ones who shot the Serbs would simply be rejected, because the German command data says that the gendarme, which was under the command of the German occupation forces, did the act and executed the shooting communists. It was the first killing of Serbs in Serbia who performed Serbs in the occupation service. Of course, further data tells us what happened and everything. Since there are many arbitrary estimates here, related to the entire period of World War II, I was free to look for relevant documents that say those who helped Draž Mihailovic treated him and why they decided to deny him that support. Namely, the ally's relationship with Draža Mihailovic, as said today by the SPS MPs, changed in 1943, when it became clear that they were not fighting the Germans and were quoted as saying in the British parliament. The main reason why the British stopped, as he says, helping Draž Mihailovic and his troops is very simple, he did not fight Hitler. This is one qualification I must mention, the Partisans are now the masters of the situation and pose a deadly threat to the Germans. I have to mention here a letter that Churchill sent to the royal government, Mr. Slobodan Jovanovic, where he says the UK government would be very difficult to justify in front of the public in the UK and in front of the world public that they are helping a movement that has the main goal of fighting another movement in Yugoslavia. Mr. Winston Churchill says in this document that for Draža Mihailovic's movement, the enemies are not German and Italian attackers, but other movements in Yugoslavia that lead to the fight against fascism. It's a historical fact. You know how, fellow MPs, in this assembly today, and in the coming days, every party needs to report to the public of Serbia and express its political position clearly. There are those who wouldn't want it because they don't want to clearly show their attitude. They want to have the favor of partisans without giving up the Chetnik. What are you going to do, that's life. Serbia's public should know what political parties are in parliament belonging to the left. We are not ashamed to say that we defend the ideas of communists, because in 1990, when the SPS was founded, half of our membership was in the order of the former Communist Union. The other half has never been a member of the Alliance of Communists, but this is not about partisans and Chetniks, this is about what happened during World War II in the former Yugoslavia. This law doesn't change history, but there is an attempt. It began naively, by changing the name of the square and the streets, by changing the day of the release of municipalities, by all that is related to the anti-fascist struggle, and then we get this law. You'll admit, it's a shame that one street in Zemun lost the name of Sima Sollaya, a folk hero, and that it bears the name of a man who took over and exercised power in front of Nazi Germany in April 1941, when they took up that space after the April war. But that's our reality, too. And the fighters will well imagine what's going on these days and what their children have been telling them, and perhaps grandchildren, because they've been deceived by false stories of democratic values, allegedly from democratic parties, entrusted to those who have just passed a law denying their rights, their rights remain the same, but their past is denied. Whoever doesn't have a past has no future. The SPS won't vote for this law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10694	First, Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic, then Mr. Bajram Omeragic, answered according to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, Mr. Veselinovic, you've called before for a replica. Let me remind you in my Rules of Procedure of Article 97, which is the basis for replication. The first two attitudes speak of the fact that if there is a wrong interpretation or an offensive expression, the MP has the right to a replica of what he decides – that is attitude 3 – the president of the National Assembly. I have not attended the previous part of the debate and I do not know how to decide, but I consider my obligation to convey what I hope is the common position of this assembly and what I was just talking to Mr. Omeragic about. All those sitting in this assembly are elected by Serbian citizens and certainly recognise the state of Serbia. That's not at all controversial, and there's no need to go out and we're individualizing it at the pay phone. Also, no one here enters with weapons except for those good, beautiful, cold weapons of mind and language, here MPs speak their political views and arguments, and there is no reason to invoke each other on that basis. Thank you for understanding. Tell the Rules of Procedure, and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've forgotten each other. We've gone far, and we've forgotten that we're in the post, and in the post, we're not just giving up the dirty food, but also the hard words and the big thoughts, the heavy thoughts. Let me tell you what reconciliation is for us, socialists. The day after tomorrow, some directors will be elected to the Kragujevac City Assembly. One of the ones proposed for the largest municipal company will be Obren Cetkovic, president of the City Committee of the SPS in Kragujevac. So much for reconciliation, socialists. I suggest, because of these difficult words, the wandering, that we stop and finish the discussion of this law in principle. If you agree, gentlemen of the Socialists, we will withdraw our speakers, we from the SPO – New Serbia and the DSS. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-15-0.u10696	Thank you. We'll see in the morning when we continue at 10.00 hours. In the morning they will first have the line Bajram Omeragic, and then Mr Veselinović, then Vladan Vukicevic, as the first speaker. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 126 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dusan Prorokovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Goran Svilanovic; during the afternoon two ladies Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović and Gordana Komic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the rights of the fighters, military invaluables and members of their families (resuming in principle) I remind you that at the end of yesterday's session the right to reply was sought by MPs Bajram Omeragić and Milan Vesenović. There is a word from MP Bajram Omeragic, who is not there, and then the MP Milan Veselinovic.
