ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4554	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 215 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 80(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, due to the continued work of this session, and due to a number of amendments which have not been discussed by the Committee on Justice and Administration, I am delaying the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled for today starting at 10.00 p.m. today at 15.00 p.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the session of the Justice and Administration Committee will be held today, starting at 1200 hours. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Emilija Krstic and Ispanovich Istvan. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 81. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and I will remind you of the words of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who said in the afternoon yesterday and scheduled vote day, but said it would be at 10.00 in the morning, and now it is 11.55 in the morning. Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we would ask you, those of you who are in power, who apparently today have some other types of negotiations on canabets in various businessmen about some new governments to be disciplined, to be responsible, to respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because this is not your front, and not the MPs are someone who needs you to serve for the game. You've also put off what we should have started at 11.00 hours now for 15.00 hours. We will hardly start at 15.00 hours, and I ask you to respect these deadlines, because this National Assembly has a lot to do, a lot of obligations, a lot to do for the citizens of Serbia. If you've forgotten, you who sit with some businessmen should take off your chains and locks. I see you still have chains and locks on the same factory, I see you haven't found any money for the cherry yet, for the raspberries too! You promised all this, and now we expect it from the new president, from the new regime, and I'm asking the minister of justice again, I brought the Hungarian So from a year ago to show how they showed up ahead what happened in Temerin a few days ago. A few days ago, it happened in Temerin, and we were informed, although it is the most serious crime in Serbia that has occurred in the last 20 years, not counting on Kosovo and Metohija's territory, conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija, the crime of Albanian terrorists, therefore, the most severe crime for which they have kept quiet for three days on someone's political order, apparently. I'm asking the minister to tell us which criminal kept quiet. We found out which criminals committed the crime, to see who the criminal was silent about, why he kept quiet and with what political intent, because if you think it's going to end by talking about it one day, and what the state television is going to find out right away and say, on the other hand, we have this or what, so sorry won't be able to. It won't end that way, and no one will be allowed to ablimate them, not even later when a judicial verdict is passed to pardon the criminals. We're asking you to explain who the truth is about such a crime stopped, who the criminal who kept quiet, because he's the same as the ones who committed that crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4556	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4557	Mr. Wolfie, this is the fourth time you've called me! I don't doubt your mind, and then I'm surprised why it's the wrong address. You know I don't have any press clearance and you know exactly who you should be referring to. You asked me yesterday when he was in V.D. A prosecutor in Novi Sad, and you know exactly who he is. You know why we have problems now, so some would leave him. Turn around, ask him. I have no doubt in your mind. I just expect you to be brave, so you can talk to whoever needs it. You know very well that we are in a situation similar to you, that in this congregation I can only say that I have done something, and everything else I cannot. I don't have the means, I don't buy the press, I can't open my own TV or my own pages. Therefore, you clearly know that your question is referred to the wrong address. I asked for information if I could get it. I was told that you were really interested in the MUP, that you were given a depesh, that you met her, and that Mr. Mircic, as chairman of the Committee, said that there was no need to raise some terrible tension so as not to cause unrest. It's familiar to me, but since we know today, we're going to have this problem to see if that deputy is going to stay or not. And then if he stays, you'll have to talk to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4558	Mr. Wolf in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4559	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr. Secretary. I've been waiting for Mr. Secretary to say this. That's right, I asked around. We've been working thoroughly on it since yesterday morning, since yesterday morning we've been working thoroughly on this case, trying to find out and get all the information, because we've been notified of a three-day delay in the crime. It's true, we found out who the prosecutor was, we were interested in who the judges were, who the court spokesman was, and we found out all that, we got everything. I've been waiting for you to say that. Because of what you said, Mr. Minister, you will see that today, the MPs of the SRS will only vote in one case, just for this crime and for the criminal conduct of that prosecutor. Today you will see it on the MPs of the SRS, to show not only principledness but to show that we condemn the crime of silence, to show that it must not happen in Serbia, that the criminal because he belongs to a political party, to whom he should hide such a thing, cannot remain in that place. That's what we're going to do now, and you're going to see that. There are no voices that can be prevented, because 80 of us will vote for it. To know something else, those who think they can laugh and enjoy and sing in Serbia, say it's the most beautiful and most important thing in Serbia, think about how they will now provide money for raspberries and cherry, how they will take off chains and locks and how Serbia's citizens will be better, "and Serbia's new bottom won't survive!" So those who lied to the people, who kept quiet about the crime, who kept such monstrous things quiet, with intent, not by chance, at any upcoming election to their feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4560	The word is Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4561	Ladies and gentlemen, just for full information, supplement the Minister's statement. It is true that as chairman of the Committee, I was informed by the interior ministry during yesterday, and it is true that it is not only that Milorad Mircic as a member of the Serbian Radical Party and acting president of the Committee insisted that tension be calmed. But it's not the tensions that calm down, Minister, how you put it from this pay phone in the context of not publishing the information, it's not the rematch. And that is the position of the Serbian Radical Party, because there are indications that in Temerin municipality, and in some other municipalities of Vojvodina, this tragedy is used to make individuals, or members of individual political parties, and you must bear in mind that there is nothing in the SRS, take advantage of this opportunity to raise tensions in Vojvodina, to challenge international conflicts. And to know which individuals it is - these are individuals who inform Serbia a year ago that they will "nationalise" the issue of Vojvodina! These are individuals and their political parties, and it is regrettable that members of some parliamentary parties from this assembly accepted such an idea, settled on such a prank, and in that sense we Serbian radicals, and I, as a member of the SRS, said that tensions are calming down, making sure that official bodies such as the MUP act there, not that a public prosecutor or his deputy hides information! Hide information, do not publish, see what effect is achieved, what tension rises, and that is complete information. If they gave you information, I assume it's from the MUP, it's not only Milorad Mircic, but also the deputy president of the SRS yesterday in his statement in front of the SRS in that sense acted!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4562	The word has the People's MP Vladan Vukicevic, you are reporting by the Rules of Procedure, well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is evident that for what happened in Temerin none of us here can be cold-blooded and I don't believe there is a person who doesn't condemn it. In a way, after several times, I, as a man, as a doctor, feel called and needed on behalf of humanity, on behalf of the parliamentary group that I represent, SCI and NS, to express regret for the case that happened and, of course, say that we MPs absolutely condemn this unkind event. What I would like to say, and that was yesterday heard here, is that in some way this case is being identified with the case of Djordj Martinovic, perhaps it should not give such a difficult qualification, precisely because we know that there is still an international balance in Vojvodina and that perhaps this case should not have to turn into something that would in some way cause international conflicts. I think absolutely this case deserves the condemnation of all Serbian citizens, that it can be freely called a vandal act and an inappropriate way of inflicting physical injuries on an unfortunate young man or a man. What I'm saying is, I also want to remind the MPs of how right we were when we passed the Code of Criminal Responsibility, when we talked about such villains as those who inflicted injuries on this unfortunate man, they should be on trial. And that there is no such prison, that there is no short arrest for such men. For these reasons, we don't need to raise tensions to some higher level right now so we don't cause worse consequences, and we, as MPs and as people, are absolutely accusing and sympathising with the pain of the family and, in some way, reviling ourselves over what happened. I'm sure the judicial authorities will react and that the monster criminals will get you the most possible punishment that follows them by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4564	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just say that, as far as amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and what we have decided here, this has nothing to do with it. Of course, this procedure must be completed within six months, and there is no need for seven-and-a-half years' detention, including that pre-criminal detention. I think the indictment must be filed immediately and it is known that and within what time it ends. There's no big philosophy here. As for something, I don't think that's what Mr. Vukevic wanted, I'm sure he didn't, but I noticed that in some media last night, and that's not an accident. Those who wanted it to be reduced to some kind of hooligan act and some act that was inappropriate - it's not just a hooligan act and it's not an inappropriate act. Don't forget that not far from that place are the graphites found: "Keep your hands on Hungarians and Hungary our only country." That's what further troubles all this stuff we're talking about. As for comparisons with Mr Martinovic and the 1985 case, your coalition partner compared it in the same way as the SRS did yesterday, and yet no newspaper wanted us to publish it, I guess because we mentioned the name of a new regime that controls a large part of the newspaper, so it must not be published, or its name cannot be heard. So, you know, we did it that way, but it did it to the biggest party in your coalition, in exactly the same way, because I read even their statement. So what it is is a crime, which is to minimize it and not talk about it, because if it is minimized and if it is not talked about, then this problem will surface and not by surface in one case, but by repeating it from day to day. We had false reports to European institutions, bodies and organisations: Joseph Kasa complained that there were eight cases of beating Hungarians, in all cases, representatives of European institutions came to Serbia and convinced that it was a lie, that it was false, that it was not on a national basis. And what now, is someone going to talk about it today, is someone going to say in that way what happened in Serbia? I don't know what Mufti says, but I know that Zoran Petrovic has a hard time saying something, and I know that he can have a hard time with his mother and his family!- I'm sorry. I know that anyone normal in Serbia today has a hard time saying something after what happened, and your attempt to make fun of anything that's not at all appropriate and not only fitting to the National Assembly, but not fitting to any man!- I'm sorry. Just imagine that you were in his position and that you were in that position. So, this criminal who kept it quiet, who kept quiet for three days about it, because one political party ordered him to keep quiet about it, one political party that celebrates today, because he thinks he should celebrate, and I can see that the chains and locks have not yet been taken down, for the raspberries and cherries have not yet provided the money, they have ordered to keep quiet about it. That's what that criminal's gonna have to answer for, to keep quiet about the crime, he's gonna have to answer for it! I'm just telling you one thing, in Serbia things have to be forced out. Those who are criminals must answer, those who have kept silent about this monstrous crime, will have to answer. Don't think they'll be saved on the cannabete this morning by some new government, because these new governments...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4566	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4567	I'm finishing up, Mr. Mihaylovic. I hear you're at home there too. It won't be because the people will vote and choose differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4568	The word is Mr. Angelkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4569	I hope that we will not turn this parliament into a debate about this event, because it would turn out that those who remain silent support for the crime that took place there, and especially when someone comes out and I would not report it, because I think it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially when someone comes out and tries to qualify whether this is a easier or harder event than the violence that happened against Martinovic. It is not the verdict of national communities or national minorities, or nations, or members of nations who have done so, but of individuals who have committed these crimes. If that's what we want, this is a difficult event, but it's not for us to judge, it's for the court. Let's not turn Parliament into that, and what should Parliament do? To require that the Information Committee meet and discuss who stopped the information, what about local state-owned media, owned by municipalities, which did not allow or allow the information about that event. In the province property, of course, first of all, because this people pay, they give money for it, and the people don't get information when it happens. That's the point here. Who stopped the information about a crime, which is an unusual one, which is extremely difficult, which is the most difficult, and how difficult the court will judge - to judge and condemn them, but I ask that the state and Parliament give a warrant and ask the Information Committee to discuss where Serbian citizens give money to local media. We can't influence the private. Why they kept this event quiet, which is like an event that happened 20, 30 years ago when some also blocked in state media and said it did not happen there but in another part of Serbia's territory. That's the point here, and I'm asking the President of the Assembly to schedule an information committee, unless the president of the Committee does.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4570	I remind you that the National Assembly, at yesterday's session, held a debate on the sole agenda of the fifth extraordinary session in 2004, so that at the beginning of this session there was no quorum to decide on the minutes of the previous sessions, and then to decide on the first item of the agenda of this session. The 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17. On 18 and 21 May 2004, and the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 May 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. 1. I am voting on the 11th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17. 18 and 21 May 2004. For 138, he did not vote 81 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 11th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17. 18 and 21 May 2004. 2. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 May 2004. For 136, there are no, abstentions, no vote is 83, out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. We move to the 1st point of the agenda:- SUMMARY OF THE DECISION on the termination of the duties and the discharge of the Judges and the Carriers of the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the election of the Public Prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motions for decisions, we move to a decision: 1) I am putting the motion to vote on a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction. For 140, there are no, abstentions, no 78 votes, of a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction. 2) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts. For 134, there are no, abstentions, no 85 votes, of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction and special courts. 3) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction. For 137, there are no, abstentions, no 82 votes, of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to relieve the court's duties to the judges of general jurisdiction. 4) I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of the judge's duties as Judge of the Trade Court in Uzic. For 135, there are no, abstentions, there is no vote 83, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge's duties as Judge of the Trade Court in Uzic. 5) I would like to put the motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the public prosecutor. For 130, there are no, abstentions, no 88 votes, of a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of public prosecutors. Since the MPs and the Committee on Justice and Administration have disputed a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the selection of public prosecutors, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 175(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, on each contested proposal, shall immediately be decided, and then decided on any other undeniable proposals in general, by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Lopusin for municipal public prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 143 against 77, the abstentions were not voted by one, of a total of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Lopushinuz of the municipal public prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Milorad Gajic for municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Lazarevic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 143, against 79, the abstentions were not voted by one, of a total of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milorad Gajic as municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Lazarevic. I am voting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice to elect Zorin Zogovic for municipal public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Dejan Rajcic. For 118, against 23, the abstentions, did not vote 81, out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected ZorinaZogovic as district public prosecutor at the district public prosecutor's office in Zajecar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nebojsa Prvulovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Bolovac. For 141 versus 77, the abstentions were not voted by four, out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Nebojsa Prvulovic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Bolovac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milan Bigovic for district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 142, against 78, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of a total of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milan Bigovic as district public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragan Jovanovic for municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's public prosecutor's office in Krusevec, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic. For 141 against 78, the abstentions were not voted by three, out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dragan Jovanovic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Desimir Stojanovic for municipal public prosecutor in the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Majdanpek, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic and the Committee for Justice and Administration. Against 223, all voted, out of a total of 223 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Desimir Stojanovic as municipal public prosecutor at the Majdanpek Public Prosecutor's Office. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Mr Zoran Pavlovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic, for district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. For 194, against 8, with 19 abstentions, two of the 223 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Mr Zoran Pavlovic as district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Novica Bojovic for district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee. For 20, against 200, there were no abstentions, no two voted, of a total of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Bojovic as district public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Miroslav Krkelic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, for the municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. Against 220, a abstentioned one, one did not vote, out of 222 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Miroslav Krkelic as municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. Since we have come to the conclusion of the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision in the first point on the proposal for a decision on the choice of public prosecutors. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, without a proposal to elect a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje and a municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, who also withdrew the High Council of Justice without the disputed proposals the National Assembly had previously declared. For 136, no one, abstentioned, voted 87, out of a total of 223 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of public prosecutors, without a proposal to elect a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Cup and a municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, which the High Council of Justice has withdrawn without the disputed proposals the National Assembly has previously declared. Since the MPs and the Committee on Justice and Administration have disputed a number of proposals by the High Council of Justice from the Proposal for a decision on the selection of deputy public prosecutors, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 175(4), The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. According to the above, we move on to a decision. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice, to elect Slavica Tanaskovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Goran Davidovic and Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina. For 90, against 86, abstentioned 33, 15 of the 224 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Slavica Tanaskovic as deputy district attorney at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Jagodina. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milan Bojkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bogoljub Pejcic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. For 98, against 25, the abstentions were not voted 92, out of 215 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Milan Boykovic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Glasses – pause.]] For 23, there are no 184 abstentions, 12 did not vote, of the 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Milun Dragutinovic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Glasses – pause.]] The Rules of Procedure set a half-hour break, so we'll continue to work in.... Many resent. ) See, this is necessary for consultation. Many resent. ) Here you are, Zoran Angelkovic, reporting under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4571	The session has begun, and I ask that someone specifically suggest a break, i.e. to see who is the one who asked for a break. Who asked for further consultations? What does that mean? If someone here doesn't pass the proposal, then he thinks they should ask for additional consultations and ask for a break. Please, the proposal didn't go through, the session continues, or someone thinks, or the heads of Parliament's clubs have agreed to seek a break. Otherwise, because the chairman decided to ask for a break, he can't do it according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-30-0.u4572	On the basis of Article 94. Rules of Procedure, to consult, I'm setting a half-hour break. Many resent. ) [[After break - 15.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Insert identification cards into your units. After we've established the quorum, we can continue to operate. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Veselin Mrdak, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Cekovic, Bogoljub Pejcic and Dejan Rajcic, as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. For 91, against 42, there were no abstentions, no 59 votes, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Mrdak's cheerleading deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Djordje Ostojic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. For 115, against 87, there were no abstentions, there were no non-voting ones, of a total of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Djorge Ostojic as deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice, to elect Zorica Zecevic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For it was not, against 204, the abstentions were not, there were not those who did not vote, of a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Zorica Zecevic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Aleksandar Nikolic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 136, against 70, there were no abstentions, there were no non-voting ones, of a total of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Aleksandar Nikolic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivana Dvornik - Mihajlovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 135, against 71, the abstentions were not voted by two, of the 208 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has elected Ivana Dvornik-Mihajlovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Koledin, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal prosecutor in the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. For 137, against 72, there were no abstentions, there were no non-voting ones, of a total of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Zorana Koledin as deputy district attorney at the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nebojsa Popovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. Against 138, it did not vote 72, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Nebojsa Popovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Trajko Naumovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the Presevo municipal public prosecutor. For 139, against 72, the abstentions were not voted by three, of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Trajko Naumovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Presevo. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ivan Markovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney for the municipal public prosecutor in Zajecar. For 139, against 72, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Ivan Markovic as deputy district attorney at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Marija Jevtic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney for the municipal public prosecutor in the Municipality of Kragujevac. For two, against 209, one abstention, one did not vote, a total of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Marija Jevtic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Avram Antonijevic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic. For 137, there are no two abstentions, no 75 votes, of a total of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Avram Antonijevic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Djura Stanic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zarko Obradovic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovic. For 120, against 22, the abstentions, did not vote 73, out of a total of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Djuru Stanic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Radmila Milovanovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by MPs Milan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis. For seven, against 204, three abstentions, two, a total of 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Radmila Milovanovic as deputy district attorney at the district public prosecutor's office in Nis. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Natasa Pavlovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney for the municipal public prosecutor in Nis. For, against 210, two abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Natasa Pavlovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Nis. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dragana Cirkovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney for the municipality's public prosecutor in Nis. For one, against 210, a abstentioned one, three, a total of 215 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dragana Cirkovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipality's public prosecutor's office in Nis. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zeljko Gvojic, whose candidacy was challenged by the MPs Bosko Ristic, Zoran Krasic and Dusan Petrovic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. For one, against 213, a abstentioned one, three, a total of 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Zeljko Gvojic as deputy district attorney at the district public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Sinisa Keseric, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bosko Ristic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. There were no abstentions against 144, 74 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Sinisa Keseric as deputy district attorney at the district public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Goran Jovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. For 144 abstentions, they did not vote 73, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Goran Jovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljubisa Vasic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Milan Markovic and Bosko Ristic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec. For 74, against 142 abstentions, there were no three votes, of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Ljubisa Vasic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pogorevec. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Jovanka Atanakovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc. For 140, against 72, the abstentions were not voted by 7, of the 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Jovanka Atanakovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Pozarevc. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Nikola Savic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and People's MPs Bosko Ristic and Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney for the district public prosecutor in Piroth. There were 216 abstentions, no votes, no 5, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Nikola Savic as deputy district attorney at the Pirot District Public Prosecutor's Office. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Violeta Rangelovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Dusan Petrovic, as deputy district prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. For one, against 140, there were no abstentions, there was no 79 vote, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Violeta Rangelovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Branislav Lazovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev. For 142, against 76, the abstentions were not voted by three, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Branislav Lazovic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Slobodan Neskovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Stara Pazova. For 142, against 75, there are no abstentions, no four votes, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slobodana Neskovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Stari Pazova. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ljiljana Maukovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration, as deputy district attorney at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Shida. For 143 against 75, there were no abstentions, two of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Ljiljana Maukovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Shid. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Milljana Aleksic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. For 123, against 97, there are no abstentions, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Milana Aleksic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Dominika Milic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. For 144, there were no abstentions, there were no 76 votes, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Dominika Milic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Zoran Vidakovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. For 142, against 74, the abstentions, did not vote 5, out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Zoran Vidakovic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice, to elect Zeljko Radibratovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Committee on Justice and Administration and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. For three, against 206, two abstentions, nine of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Zeljko Radibratovic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. I would like to vote on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Marija Gacic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic. For 122, against 97, the abstentions were not voted by two, of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Maria Gacic as deputy district attorney at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Uzic. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Ana Jankovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the municipality's public prosecutor in Uzic. I conclude the vote: for 138, against 76, the abstentioned did not vote 7, out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ana Jankovic as deputy district attorney at the municipal public prosecutor's office in Uzic. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice, to elect Dragan Rangelovic, whose candidacy was challenged by the Justice and Administration Committee and MP Zoran Krasic, as deputy district attorney in the District Public Prosecutor's Office. For 9, against 202 abstentions 5, four of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Dragan Rangelovic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice to elect Radenka Angelic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Milan Markovic and Bosko Ristic, as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. For 22, against 122 abstentions, 77 of the 221 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Radenka Angelic as deputy district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Capco. I am putting on the vote by the High Council of Justice, to elect Ana Pantelic-Negovanovic, whose candidacy was challenged by MPs Milan Markovic and Bosko Ristic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor in the municipal public prosecutor. For 22, against 123 abstentions, there was no 77 vote, of 222 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Ana Pantelic-Negovanovic as deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac. Since we have come to the conclusion on all the contested proposals, we are moving to a decision in the first point on the proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, without the disputed proposals on which the National Assembly has previously declared itself. For 145, there are no, no abstentions, no 76 votes, of 221 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors, without the disputed proposals that the National Assembly has previously declared. Let me, yes, on your behalf and my own behalf, congratulate the elected public prosecutor's office and wish me success in my work. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Bosko Ristic, at a session on 29 June 2004, at 17.23 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 49(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 94, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision by them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Since we have really extended our work today, the Sixth Extraordinary Session is being postponed by tomorrow, at 10.00 hours, with the Justice and Administration Committee meeting immediately after the session is over.
