ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10922	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note Eighth Session of the Second Regular Session on 21 December 2004 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.05 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 149 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Goran Svilanovic, Natasa Micic and Milka Silajev. In accordance with Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda of this session as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 29 November 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session, and in accordance with Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 29 November 2004. For 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 18, 19 and 29 November 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on the proposal for individual points to be withdrawn from the draft agenda. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the takeover of jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, one of the 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Securities Commission proposed that the 2005 Commission's financial plan for securities be put on the agenda of the 2005 National Assembly on 8 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 127, they did not vote three out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft advertising law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2004, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 128, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 13 MPs suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on opening a security service file in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 45, against 84, a abstentioned one, were not voted by three, of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision to elect public information creditors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote six out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic, president of the SP-NS parliamentary group, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote seven out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested putting the draft decision on the agenda on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 165, two abstentions, five of the 172 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote ten out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The National MP Predrag Marković proposed to withdraw from the proposed agenda the points: - The draft law on railways, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, item 2 of the proposed agenda; - the draft law on postal services, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, item 3 of the proposed agenda; - the draft law on the programme for the protection of participants in criminal proceedings, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, point 4 of the proposed agenda; - the proposal for the Law on Intermediation - Mediation, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, item 5 of the proposed agenda; - the Commission's report on the business of the values for the year 2003, with the annual account and the report of the authorised auditor, which was submitted by the Commission on the value of the 7th draft agenda: - the Commission's budget for the 2004 budget for the year, which was submitted by the Commission's annual budget for the year for the year, which it was submitted by the Commission's budget for the year for the year for the year for the year of the year of the budget of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year, which the year of the year for which the Commission, the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year for which of the year of the year of which the year of the year of the year of the year of which the year of the year of the year of the year of which the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of which of which of which of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year of which of the Since the MP does not want a word, do they want the word of the representatives of the proponents whose withdrawal is proposed. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, it did not vote six out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for emergency procedure and the proposal to withdraw certain points from the draft agenda, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 133, they did not vote two out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a law on the takeover of jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and military defences, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 3. The election of members of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest from the List submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts; 4. Termination of office and choice of judicial office holders; 5. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Public Information, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic, president of the Serbian Parliamentary Movement of Reconstruction - New Serbia; 7. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group; 8. Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Since proposals have been accepted to consider acts of urgency, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Election of the MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Dragor Hiber. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The legislative committee shall, on the basis of Article 142(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an untimely amendment of the People's MP Dr Dragor Hiber to Article 8, the amendment which proposed that a new member of 8 and 22 be added after Article 8, and MP Zoran Ćirkovic to members 17 and 18. It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion at a session of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and these are three Social Democratic Party MPs, after five minutes, according to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the Serbian Renewal Movement is – New Serbia for this point, MP Slobodan Zivkucin. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10924	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today on the agenda a very important law, a law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. The passing of this law is an obligation that Serbia as a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has on the basis of the Constitutional Charter. Based on the text of the Constitutional Charter itself, as well as the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are scheduled to be elected indirectly from the Member States' parliaments during this initial period of two years. After that period, their mandate lasts four years and are elected directly, so in the elections by all citizens in the Member States, on the basis of the laws of the Member States which may differ in Serbia-Montenegro on many issues, but must be the same on the essential issue, which is the final consensus on the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, which is that these elections must be direct. By adopting this law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia will finally establish a legal framework and assumptions for the smooth functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. It is particularly important that the European Union and the Council of Europe have recently given full support to the adoption of such a law, and have specifically stressed that holding direct elections is necessary in order to establish a legitimate parliament based on their results, as a key institution for the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. By adopting this law, Serbia is becoming a constructive partner of the European Union in full respect of both the Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement itself, one of the signatories of which is also a representative of the European Union. The adoption of this law is not party but supremacy, and I would say this moment and that the state issue, and one of the basic, leading issues. For this reason, I expect that this law will be supported, and I have had the opportunity to see to it that this previous amendment process of declaring the MPs to the very text of the law, the support of a large majority of the MPs, not taking care of party interests but above all of the state interests and enabling the smooth functioning of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. By adopting this law, I hope, by a large number of votes here in the Serbian Parliament, Serbia will send a clear message to the European Union that it best fulfils its obligations under the Constitutional Charter and the Belgrade Agreement. This will allow Serbia as a Member State for faster and more effective access to the state union through European integration processes. The passing of the law, I hope, is a matter that should not be disputed, and it would be very important for Serbia-Montenegro, in due time, to pass laws on the direct election of MPs in the Assembly of the State Community, to fully respect the Constitutional Charter and to hold elections for MPs in the assembly in February of next year. By passing the law, Serbia sends a clear message to the state union, but also to the European Union that the Constitution must be respected and that no authority, if it considers itself democratic, can agree to violate the law and the constitution as the highest legal act. The violation of the Constitution, and in this case it would be the Constitutional Charter, would just, in my opinion, open up a much bigger and much deeper problem with inconceivable consequences. Allow me in this brief opening address to just introduce some of the basic solutions on which this, by its nature, rests quite a short text of the law. The text of the law is also short for a simple reason that, under the Constitutional Charter, the electoral legislation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Montenegro regulates the procedure for electing MPs, and therefore it was enough to provide for such legislation only those specificities on the electoral procedure. The concrete solutions that I believe deserve your attention in this part of my address is the fact that this law provides for Serbia as one electoral unit, that in the direct elections of February next year in the Republic of Serbia as a Member State will be elected as a whole, as already provided for by the Constitutional Charter itself, 91 MPs, that they will be elected according to the proportional electoral system. A 5% electoral censorship, of which there are, of course, discrepancies that represent the principle of positive discrimination for the parties of national minorities and the coalition of national minorities, which may not apply this 5% censorship. It would be true for them, if they didn't cross that law-expected census, so-called. natural electoral censorship or threshold. As for the division of the mandate, a division of the formula known in theory as the Mayer formula is envisaged. Says the theory that such a division is fairer for a simple reason that it does not respect any particular party, regardless of whether it is large or perhaps small, already brings all parties to an equal position. I also believe that the allocation of mandates to this formula will be much simpler in application and will thus allow for more efficient work by the authorities to conduct the elections. As for the electoral right, both active and passive, it is envisaged in the same way for all those who have the right to vote in the Republic elections in Serbia. The mechanism for protecting the electoral right also exists, which is a double mechanism, firstly in the first degree through complaints before the RIK, and in the second degree in the form of complaints before the Serbian Supreme Court. The deadlines for using these remedies are very short because of the nature of the procedure and are 48 hours. Of course, there is one additional protection against the inefficient work of the RIK provided for in the light of a legal assumption in the event of the silence of the administration, which is then considered to be adopted. In the end, it is my duty to introduce to you that in the pre-front stage of this law he is also consulted, despite the fact that the procedure for the adoption of the law does not require, RIK. The draft of this law was discussed at a session of the Election Commission, where, in my opinion, they were represented in a professional sense by the most professional and most invited people, when it comes to the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia, to give their opinion. Several very constructive remarks of more technical character have been made, and they are mostly respected. Also, at the very end, I must express my gratitude to all the MPs in the amendments that have been adopted. They were very constructive, and this is what gave me hope that at the beginning of this short address today, I would argue that this law might get the support of a large majority of MPs, because you have a non-partisan issue, not only of the government of Serbia, but of a proposal that Serbia is dealing with a very important state issue. I thank you, and in the rest of the debate, I will be happy to answer all the questions you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10925	Just one notice. The Justice Committee is in session and I'd like to ask the members, if anyone else is in the O.R., to go upstairs so they can work. The word has a folk MP, as head of the parliamentary group, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10926	Dear People's MPs, all those who are at heart of state and national interest should know that the adoption of this law, as one of the conditions for the preservation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is precisely in the national interest. So all those who feel it is necessary for the citizens of this country to get involved in European integration flows as soon as possible know that this is one of the shortcuts for this inclusion and that everything else is a very difficult, painful and pervasive path. So please, honourable MPs, vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10927	The word has been given by MP Miloljub Albianic, head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10928	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the G17 Plus party believes that the adoption of a law on the direct election of MPs for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly and their almost organisation would not benefit Serbia's interests. Serbia-Montenegro represents one state and giving greater legitimacy to its parliament would not change that fact. The fact is that the direct elections for the SCG Assembly were part of the agenda agreed by the Constitutional Charter, but it is also true that the letter of the Constitutional Charter was supposed to give full harmonisation to the two republics' markets more than a year ago, and that the court of the state was organised with great delay. It is known that G17 plus is in favour of restoring Serbia's state independence. It is tragic that applying the terms of the Mastricht contract created by the EU, Serbia-Montenegro would represent a state more unitary than the former SRJ and today Serbia-Montenegro. That is why we find direct elections and giving greater legitimacy to this state community unnecessary. In this belief, we also find that the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is almost without legislative authority and that even very little influence on the creation of a defence and foreign affairs policy. Aware of the fact that Serbian citizens are deeply divided around the future of Serbia-Montenegro's state union and the widespread belief that, with the disappearance of this bureaucratic formation, which does not protect the life interests of its citizens and the Serbian people, they will be the corrupt relations of the two republics, G17 plus sought not to raise the issue of Serbia's formal declaration of independence over the past months. However, abandoning a harmful harmonisation agreement concluded by the last government, we consider one of the great successes of our ministers, which saved Serbia from further humiliation and material damage. That is why, just so as not to contribute to the divisions among citizens, we have proposed that our ministers be restrained in the government when it comes to the law on holding direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. The fact that Serbia's official plan today is to pass this law, regardless of the fact that the current course of events has suggested the imminent collapse of the state union, as well as the obvious determination of the Montenegrin government not to organise direct elections for the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly on its territory, leaves us with no choice but to be against this proposal. Convinced that parties seeking to preserve the state union have a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we warn their MPs that in the event that elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are held only in Serbia, we risk bringing our citizens back to the situation from 1998 or 2000, which will in no way contribute to the preservation of the state union. We remind our esteemed colleagues that since the establishment of democracy in October 2000, Serbian citizens have had opportunities to participate in six different election cycles, which, regardless of the fact that there was no serious boycott, were mostly less than 50% of voters. Serbia is in front of a referendum on a new constitution and likely early parliamentary elections over the next year, so the organisation of another election for the institution, which has not yet had much observed activities, whose competencies are less than any other parliament on the European continent, will only foster an election apathy that poses our greatest danger to democracy and its institutions. Therefore, the G17 plus suggests that the current assembly of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly be extended for a year, and that, together with a referendum on the new constitution, which may by then be voted in the National Assembly, and the extraordinary parliamentary elections, we decide to hold a referendum and the fate of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. If citizens decide that the state union should survive, it will be easier to pass a law on direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and the elections will certainly be more successful. I remind my distinguished colleagues from the parties seeking to preserve the state union, the SRJ was a confederate, and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is a confederate, whose disintegration has been institutionalised. The citizens did not vote for it, but for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. So the proposal is very simple. It is impossible to hold elections in one Member State, and in another, or we are dealing with something that might be called violence, to organise elections in one Member State, and not to do so in another. I also remind you that it is best for Belgrade and Podgorica to agree, and everything that Belgrade and Podgorica agree on is acceptable for the EU and the whole world. Also, any election, including such organised elections, costs over a billion dinars or a billion and a half dinars, or around 20m euros. This is what the Republic of Serbia's budget pays for, and no such funds are provided in the budget. Also, those funds can only be taxed from citizens of Serbia. I don't think the citizens are ready for that. Certainly, the most important thing in the coming period is to reach an agreement between the two member states of the Serbia-Montenegro state union. We're on a deal. The Constitutional Charter can be changed by the agreement of both Member States and that would be the way, therefore, for mutual understanding of both the future and the one and the other Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10929	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the head of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10930	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have before us a legislative proposal that represents meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the Constitutional Charter that has been adopted, I would like to remind you, contrary to the SPS vote in the then Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you except the SPS and, I think, if I recall correctly, the SRS, you were all in favor of adopting this constitutional charter. All of you have participated in the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and, therefore, it is surprising to me that the debate currently being held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is under way. I just ask myself sometimes do you even speak in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? How is it possible for the government of the Republic of Serbia to come out with a proposal like this and G17 to vote against. Miroljub Labus is a signator of the Belgrade Agreement. It was a deal between Serbia and Montenegro, it was an agreement on the European Union's speech and we did not say for no reason that it was a creation called "Solania". You are now against signing together and imposing other MPs in the then Federal Assembly of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So I don't see any DS representatives here, not in large numbers. The DS was the leading party that forced the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter. More of you were at the debate about Chetniks and Partisans than you are now. You gave a quorum to the Chetniks, not a quorum to discuss Serbia-Montenegro's state union. Are these the priorities the people of Serbia are facing today? Today, the SPS certainly still thinks the Constitutional Charter is bad. We believe that the Constitutional Charter has created a creature that cannot function successfully. That's what we thought two years ago when the Constitutional Charter was brought in. I am surprised that certain political parties, which are now the government of the Republic of Serbia, have a different approach on this most important state issue. As I understand the Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the goal is for Serbia to respect its obligations to the Constitutional Charter and that the European Union sees that Serbia is not an obstacle to the further survival of the Serbia-Montenegro state union. If that's the case, we'll vote for this bill. If we were to look at the bill itself, we could find points in it that might make us not vote in favour of this proposal. There are some concrete actions that are related to the electoral process. As we understand it, this is about showing that the leadership of the Republic of Montenegro does not want the genuine survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, therefore, part of the leadership, and that it does everything to stop the state union from existing as soon as possible. I'll say what's most important here for the SPS, and if the DS has anything to say can say after that, since obviously you've been waving JAT's cards for the Bodrum affair, now you've become board members. I am really surprised that Mr. Radosavljevic is not a member of the JAT Management Board and I would really ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since Neda Arnerić became a member of the Management Board of the Sava Centre, as Voja Jankovic became a member of the Management Board of the Ade Gypsies, Pajtic is the President of the Regional Government, I do not know another one is missing and has not received any function, so please make Mr. Radosavljevic a member of the JAT Management Board, because he is obviously the best barat for these plane tickets. Whoever has no place on board, please report to Mr. Radosavljevic. To return to the state union, that is, Serbia-Montenegro, so we, as you know, have said that the fundamental question is whether Serbia and the Serb people want a community with the Montenegrin people and Montenegro. What is the form of this union, we can say that at this point it's not the most important. Here someone will say that it is a bureaucratic creation and that it is not Serbia's state interest. It is the state and national interest of Serbia and the Serbian people. Why? Because Montenegro lives, according to the current census, at least a third of Serbs, so how is it not the national state interest of Serbia and the Serb people? It is the highest national state interest, therefore, that Montenegro remains to live in any kind of partnership with Serbia. I'll say one more thing again. It cannot be considered more important for our country to achieve good neighbourly relations with Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Albania or to achieve co-existence and co-existence in our country within Serbia with Muslims, Croats, Albanians, etc. The Hungarians, and we don't care how we live with the Montenegrins. I don't want to get into whether it's one people or not, so let everyone write whatever they want. It is our life's interest to keep some kind of union between Serbia and Montenegro. That's why Serbia really needs to do everything in its power to survive. We are not satisfied with constitutional solutions, we voted against it, but we will always vote for any form of community, not to let Montenegro become independent, because a third of Montenegrin citizens who are Serbs will remain out of the community with Serbia. Therefore, we must show everyone that Serbia is for the survival of Serbia-Montenegro's state union by passing a law on direct elections. Whether these elections will be organised or not, that's another question. And why else is it? Because it probably doesn't occur to anyone that elections are held only in Serbia without being held in Montenegro, it's funny that someone thinks in such a way and that it's an alibi to vote for this law. Serbia needs to pass the law and should insist on respecting the Constitutional Charter. From what I understand, I don't even know about G17 plus, because this is the first time you haven't listened to what Solana's looking for. He is seeking direct elections for the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. We didn't vote for what you adopted, that text for European integration. You asked, you voted, now you vote here against. If I were Prime Minister, believe me, this government would either no longer exist or we wouldn't be doing this. As far as this is concerned, I am really startled by the position of the ruling parties on all of this. I'm asking another question, is there a deal on this? You want to make a parliamentary majority in the style of flying shifts in hockey, a little SPS, a little radicals, a little DS, etc. That's what DS wanted. They wanted to cohabitate first, so they saw what cohabitation meant, so they literally understood what it was meant to be, who would cross whom. In any case, as far as we're concerned, we absolutely support the survival of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. We don't consider it bureaucratic or artificial. Serbia-Montenegro and the Serbian and Montenegrin people have no closer to each other than they are. Let's not make us separate Serbia and Montenegro. As for that, we will vote in favour of this bill for the reason that we believe that the SCG state union should survive, even though we were not in this form and form of the SCG community. The SRJ was a Federation with some elements that gave a little more rights to the republics. The present creation that you have brought, all of you who are here, except for the radicals and the socialists, you have imposed it and are now talking about it being a bureaucratic creation. I don't see what government policy is. I think the government should seriously consider this issue. If you have a foreign minister who talks what he wants, if you have a party that is second in power in the Serbian government, who votes against this proposal, I don't think there are clean relations. Everyone has the right to their own party policy, but when you're in government, ladies and gentlemen, you're looking for the least possible common denominator, not something to distinguish you from others. If that's what we're looking at, I think the government has passed the exam on this proposal. You're the government, you're the government, the parliamentary majority. You didn't agree on this, you went to the MPs where one party voted like this and the other one. As for us, we will vote in favour of this proposal because we are confident that Montenegrins and Serbs are of the same root and that Serbia-Montenegro should be in any form of unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10931	Replica, MP Albianic. Mr. Dacic, if you've followed my discussion closely, I haven't mentioned the SPS for a moment, and you've allowed yourself to give us a lecture on how relations are in the government and who's doing what. The G17 plus on this point has a point of view, clearly and explicitly I've expressed that attitude here. What you don't like about that attitude is your problem. Secondly, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia we are a very constructive factor and you know it, and so far we have not advertised about the state community and we are certainly constructive in this regard and we have acted. It was trying to make certain moves that would make the state functional, obviously it's not. I have to tell you, at one point you said, pretty high - that I'm the Prime Minister. Mr. Dacic, you are not the Prime Minister, nor will you be and should you specifically be here to speak certain things, not to accuse a party in the ruling coalition. You know well that the state programme of European Serbia G17 plus is called "Serbia First". We don't mind Montenegro being Montenegro in the first place, but this and this way of functioning of the state community isn't good, everyone knows that. And worse still, it may happen that the Republic of Serbia is trying to do one thing on its territory, and that Montenegro will not and that we do so in a move that will finally separate the Member States. There's a responsibility here to discuss serious state issues, and not from serious state issues, or we'll let the inerts guide us, so sometimes the government works faster, sometimes slower. Anyway, things happen by intensity, so we'll see what happens to the community of the state. Are we able to deal with that problem or not? Are we able to talk to Montenegro's political elite or not? In the end, are we able to bring the best solution or not? Everything else is empty political stories. I have not seen a serious summit on this issue, and here we have the law, and we know that the law was also proposed in Montenegro, which has not passed. In that sense, I ask you not to take the G17 plus word for it, because it has nothing to do with the functioning of a ruling coalition that works well. So, the coalition agreement is not signed on this issue, and it says G17 plus undertakes to vote for a direct election law for the SCG state union. There's no such thing in the coalition agreement. You know we're doing well and responsibly, and that's how we're gonna proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10934	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear colleague Dacic, I find your discussion very incorrect. Here, as a task, you mention DS whenever you go out for a pay phone. It's either on a mission, or it's your internal impulse, something stronger than you, some kind of jealousy, or some kind of hatred, I wouldn't get into it. I already asked you two days ago and I ask you again, if you have nothing to say about the subject, don't say anything, but don't mention DS in a negative context, don't slander your fellow Members, the MPs and hold to the dignity of the National Assembly, where you and I are, and all of us here, and fellow Members and fellow Members of the task entrusted to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10935	Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10936	I would suggest that you bring a Rules of Procedure that should only be spoken in the third person, so that no one can be recognized. The MP will not be allowed any criticism. As far as I know, I'm president of the SPS Parliament Club. I'm not a member of DS or G17 plus. I don't understand the reaction to any mention of these parties in the discussion. I reacted because I believe that the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter were part of the agreement of all parties that were then made by the ruling coalition, DSS, then G17 plus I don't know if there was, but Miroljub Labus was the vice-president of the federal government and one of the signatories of the Belgrade Agreement, the SPO was not in the government at the time, was New Serbia in power. So all the parties I mentioned were for this variant that we're discussing today. That is why it is strange for me that G17 plus today does not support the survival of the state community created under the Belgrade Agreement and the survival of which Javier Solana and the EU insist, and I also find it odd that the DS was more interested in the Chetnik Act than in the election law for the SCG State Community. That's what I was talking about. The SCG state union is not bureaucratic. If it's bureaucratic, you made it that way. You voted for her. If someone does not like the state union, do not participate in government at the state union level of Serbia-Montenegro. Therefore, each one has the right to his/her/her/her/her/her/her/it attitude. And the SPS is entitled to its position. Don't ask us to support you in something where you're wrong. So we absolutely don't support DS, and as far as G17 plus goes, we're absolutely against it and we find it irresponsible that G17 plus went against this proposal, because he's a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That was supposed to be agreed by the people who run the government of the Republic of Serbia before they sent the law here. Who's going to vote for that bill here if you don't vote G17 plus? Did you get most of it for that? I'm asking you something I shouldn't ask you. Do you want that law not to be passed? If he doesn't vote G17 plus, will the SRS vote in favour of that law, will the DS vote in favour of that law? So you've put us in a position here, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the ruling coalition, to discuss your internal relations here in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for this, as Mr Petrovic also came, I would really like to ask Mr Radosavljevic to propose to the JAT Management Board because it is the best thing for him. Since he was just gone, I suggest that, on behalf of the DS, since Neda Arneric and Voja Jankovic were there, we take advantage of this situation. Perhaps the DS will vote in favour of this bill, in order to cohabitate. (President: Time.) I think it is very unserious to present this legislative proposal to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without having a common position of the parties that make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Do you think the SPS was just for everything you suggested? Do you think you're so smart, so beautiful, so fair, that we've always voted for all this, but we've stuck to the deal we had with Vojislav Kostunica? What are you talking about? (President: Mr. Dacic, time. ) Do you think that the Radicals supported the Securities Commission, giving the quorum, because they loved this Value Paper Commission, rather than having some other topic at the time, so they wanted to use it to be present. So don't talk about how G17 plus does well now. We're not talking about G17 plus, I'm talking about the most important state and national issue. Are you going to survive the state union or not? If you won't, I really don't know what political basis the government of the Republic of Serbia is based on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10937	Mr. Prophetovich asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10938	I don't want there to be a replica in the right sense of that word, I'd rather have a few clarifications. First, as far as artificial and bureaucratic creations are concerned, political circumstances have imposed one such arrangement at that time. It is not just a deal between Serbia and Montenegro, but a three-way agreement between Belgrade, Podgorica and Brussels. As far as we can see, two partners in the process and how they agree to preserve the state union, that is Serbia on the one hand, the European Union on the other. The third partner, or part of the political elite on that third side, does not want to preserve the state union. The bill is, in fact, an attempt to prevent disintegration processes in our premises, because if they continue, the question is where they will end. I fear that it will not end only in the separation of Serbia-Montenegro and that no series of separation will see either Serbia or Montenegro. Some other nations, some other countries in the environment, will also look forward to it. Serbia thus wants to show that it is a full partner of the EU and that it is not an obstacle to the preservation of the state union. I must admit that Mr. Albianic's speech surprised me and you. I think we should subdue the party's interests to the state's interests. This isn't about government or government. If it's the government, as far as the DSS is concerned, we'll leave it tomorrow, if it's in the national interest. There's no problem. I think it is both of national and state interest for Serbia-Montenegro to be preserved. Don't talk about Montenegro wanting anything anymore. Statistics show that 42% of Montenegrins, 34% of Serbs, live in Montenegro. The rest are representatives of national minorities. So, Montenegrins in their country are a sub-half minority. Secondly, when listing who will learn what language at school is given the option: mother, Croatian, Bosniak, Serbian, 60% of people have declared that they want their children to learn Serbian. Do not co-habit or build partnership with the people for whom Ramush Haradinaj is democratically elected leader, with great democratic capacities, whose stagnant is the idea of independence of Ferhat Dinos. You are looking for partners in this House, to unanimously pass this law, not to be guided by the interests of Haradinaj and Dinosh and to destroy our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10939	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10940	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, since our party has been mentioned for who knows which time, to try to make a few clarifications, as far as our position is concerned. I am convinced that Mr Dacic knows very well what political pragmatism is, and how political opportunities can change and how some political attitudes change with them. But I'm going to set an example here of a life that, I'm sure, is known to all of us, and to him and to the rest of us. You can enter into one marriage out of love, most of us have done so, but if after a while it becomes clear that it is an unsustainable community, then it is completely unnatural to try to keep someone by force in that marriage. It's beneath civilization standards to try every way to maintain a marriage that no longer works. That's exactly what happened to our community, ladies and gentlemen. What is the position of G17 plus on this issue and why is G17 plus, right, at that time we existed as an expert network, why is Mr Labus a signer of the Belgrade Agreement? That's the question we've given the answer to multiple times. At that point, G17 plus felt that really disintegrated processes were no longer going anywhere. It's clear to us that we weren't involved in this. Some other parties participated in the dispersal of the former Yugoslavia and participated in making it smaller, smaller and smaller. We felt that this process should be stopped. We advocate integration processes, and we see Serbia in Europe. At that point, we felt that Serbia-Montenegro could move towards Europe together. It was Serbia's interest at that time. Secondly, I would like to stress that the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter are not the same documents, and the G17 plus in no way participated in signing the Constitutional Charter. Third, it became very soon clear, but between the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, that the community is unsustainable, that it is unsustainable and political, both economically and in any other way. It became clear, for many reasons, that Serbia cannot progress in that community. Something else has become clear: Serbia will never reach Europe in that community, for the simple reason that interests are different. I must say that this position G17 plus, in a way, came across the approval of the international community, as it became clear that only two tracks can be reached in Europe now. Two tracks to Europe, for Serbia one, for Montenegro the other, is in some way a recognition of the fact that Serbia-Montenegro, as a community, cannot be harmonised to that extent to join Europe as a community of states. So these are all reasons why G17 plus believes that this community is still unsustainable, not because it has someone better and someone worse, not because someone has more than one less interest in living in this community, but because we believe that the civil rights of every nation, both the Serb people and the people of Montenegro, are going to decide which way they will go forward, whether they want to go together or not. We think that it is better for Serbia and Montenegro to enter Europe again, as well as for all the former Yugoslav states, like all countries in Europe, to be together, but as one Europe. It's a G17 plus attitude and it's completely understandable our position here today. As to whether the Government, or parties supporting the Government, must always have a unique position, our answer is - of course, to the extent that the survival of the Government is conditioned by these views and to the extent that it is necessary on some issues that are extremely important for the maintenance of the Government. However, as far as this issue is concerned, we fully agree that it is of greater interest than the party's, that it is a national interest and, of course, all parties in this House will plead. As for the survival of the government and the role that the G17 plus in it is clear to us, and we believe that it is clear to all, the G17 plus is not in the government because the government would survive, the G17 plus is in the government to implement its programme and to the extent that compromises are inevitable, but compromises have a limit, only to the extent that we are prepared and able to implement our programme in this government, to that extent we remain in that government and support it. We feel that we can absolutely have an attitude on this matter. Our position is clear, and we have said it to this occasion, which, of course, does not restrict all other parties to their position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10941	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10942	I appeal to article 100 and the obligation of the MPs to speak the truth here. I don't want to compromise on the G17 attitude. So, I don't dispute their political stance, but I want to point to some things that are incorrectly expressed here. The first thing, it is not true that elections can only be held in Serbia under this law. On the basis of the provision of the Constitutional Charter, the elections are called by the President of the State Community, or by the President of the Council, or by the Government of the State Community, or by the Member States, once again, on the basis of the Constitutional Charter. That's one fact we have to interpret correctly. The second thing is the absolutely incorrect fact that the majority of Montenegro will not remain in the state community. That is precisely why the current government in Montenegro will not vote. The majority of Montenegro wants to stay in the state community and that is why Milo Djukanovic's regime is afraid and not afraid of the election, because it would show up in February. Please respect that fact here, too. One more thing, the Constitution cannot be changed by agreement. The constitution must be respected. Of course, I mean the Constitutional Charter, and there is no political or any other agreement that the Constitutional Charter can change. In the end, it is probably the highest interest of all parties in Serbia, all of us here and all of us institutions in Serbia to protect the interests of Serbs outside Serbia, and there is a colleague, Prorokovic, absolutely right, when we talk about this topic, we must bear in mind that in Montenegro, according to official results of the census issued by the Institute of Statistics and the same Ministry of Government, lives over 200,000 Serbs, or 34% of Serbs, and that in Montenegro, according to the same data, 63% of the population speaks Serbian language. We must always keep those facts in mind, and we must interpret them correctly and truthfully in front of this house here by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10943	National MP Dusan Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10944	Replica. Mr. Dacic and I don't agree on anything except one small thing. In the end, he said he did not know how the government of the Republic of Serbia survives. I also don't know how the government of the Republic of Serbia survives, and it seems more and more amazing to me from day to day, but that, Mr. Dacic, is not my problem. You are the government of the Republic of Serbia. The DS supported the agenda and voted for the last item of the agenda because it was a proposal from the SPO and because we were and now we are convinced that the topic that was to be closed 60 years ago is time to close it now and give it to the 21st century and that Serbia should come to life as quickly as possible as any other European countries have to discuss and we should deal with this, and that the Second World War should be left behind. It was the motive of the DS, and I'm sure that's how it's gonna happen after the law's passed. We did not give the quorum to begin this session because, Mr Dacic, we were waiting to see whether you still support the Government of the Republic of Serbia or not. For a week you've fought a war here with one piece or with the rest of the government's majority, on the deepest issues of value, on what's good, what's evil. You have shown, Mr. Dacic, that you are completely unprincipled and that you are running a completely unfounded policy, because as far as I understand you support a government that has parties that have valuable courts and a value system that is completely contrary to yours. That's what the debate showed. Since we wanted Serbia's citizens to see if you preferred values or participation in the government, we received an answer. You, Mr Dacic, support this government, because it is important to you how many people you will have on boards, it is important that you achieve some of your political goals, and the values you have represented in this House for a week are not important to you and that was important for you to see Serbian citizens and we have received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10945	People's MP, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10946	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. When I spoke of the Democratic Party, I expressed my surprise as to why there were more of them and gave a quorum for the Chetniks, rather than for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, since Zoran Djindjic was one of those who founded the state community, but this is now their valuable commitment. When I was talking about the Democratic Party, I mentioned something else, which Mr. Petrovic didn't say anything, which seems to have become normal, which is the Bodrum affair and everything else, so it doesn't deserve any replicas. So much for values. As far as that goes, I don't want to go any further. If the SPS watched what the values of the previous session were, if we were talking about Chetniks and Partisans, unfortunately, we, apart from the SDP who voted together with us, would not have had in Serbia who to co-operate with, because you are all on the same valuable wavelengths, and DS, and SRS, and SPO, and NS, and DSS and G17 plus who voted for the Chetniks. So if you're already at the same values, why don't you vote for them, then, if you're already talking about values. And that's when I said that the DS didn't support this because she thought it was right, but because she thought it would bring as much instability into the ruling political coalition as possible. They're right. You think we're political diletaries, that we're politically naive. As far as we're concerned, the SPS will always sooner co-operate with those who are for the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, for those who are for the defence of Republika Srpska, for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, not for those who want to co-operate with even Haradinaj. There's no dispute here as far as we're concerned. I started this whole story because I believe that before the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes an official bill, the government must know who will vote for it in the Serbian Parliament. If the G17 does not vote, the Serbian government has provided a majority of other political parties, DS or SRS. That's what I congratulate them on. I think again and again, the parties that make up the government, which is not the SPS, are obliged to have a unique political position on the most important political issues. There are no pre-election campaign issues here, there are policy-making issues, so I think the harder words have been heard today at the expense of Serbia-Montenegro's state union rather than in a debate in the Montenegrin parliament. We should cultivate unity with Montenegro, with the Montenegrin people, although there were some tones that could have been interpreted differently at the previous session of parliament. There are no closer and closer to us than Montenegro and Montenegro. There is no reason for us to cheer for giving national minorities in Serbia autonomy, Albanians in Kosovo, in southern Serbia, Hungarians in Vojvodina, Muslims in the Raski area, without talking about Montenegro and Montenegro. The G17 has the right to its political stance, but then it must be consistent in everything, then it must not participate in government at the federal level, or at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I don't want to go any further. I simply think that those who run politics should know, it is not debated here whether the elections will be held violently or not, this is about whether Serbia will meet its obligations, whether we respect the Constitutional Charter or not. Serbia should show that it respects the Constitutional Charter, and let Solana discuss with those who do not respect the Constitutional Charter, because the state union and the Constitutional Charter are named after it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10947	On what grounds did you answer? According to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10948	In fact, I answered the line for Mr. Dacic's first presentation, but in the fire of this controversy, or perhaps the president's impertinence was not registered with my raised hand, so I just now got a chance to say it. So, Mr Dacic was probably lost when he said that New Serbia supported the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter. She didn't vote for either one. It can simply be established by a stenogram. That's what we politically defined ourselves at the time when it was current. Of course, Mr. Dacic wasn't in this congregation at the time, so maybe he missed it and didn't register it. Another failure, that New Serbia was in power in the previous assembly meeting. No, New Serbia really belonged to a winning coalition that won after October 5th and that is not controversial. Then all the political smart people were on that side, what do we do, October 5th is that, it's the right thing to do. It is true that New Serbia was not in power because it did not participate in the executive government, had no minister and, again, for the sake of truth, New Serbia did support the government until 13 December 2002, until the baptism of the house of Karadjordjevic, St. Andrija First Named. Later, since then, New Serbia has gone definitely and irrevocably into the opposition and that is what historical facts are. By the way, since I did not want to participate in the debate on the previous agenda, I would like to congratulate once again all the surviving veterans of the Yugoslav Army in the country, all the members of the Ravnogorje Movement, all the members of the Yugoslav Montenegrin Youth and all the people of good faith that the historic injustice was finally corrected and our veterans were granted the right to retire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10949	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Petrovic, is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10950	The DS respects what judicial institutions are doing and will not interfere with what the court and the prosecution are doing. If anyone is guilty of any offence, criminal offence or any other criminal offence and is found in the procedures, the DS will fully respect it and act accordingly. Mr Dacic, the fact that you were on one side and all the others were on the other side, once again, the DS thinks that after 60 years, the time has come for historians to deal with the Second World War, and that politicians and citizens of Serbia should deal with their present and future, and should deal with finding ways as soon as we start solving the problem of a million unemployed people and as soon as we enter the European Union. You were the only one here who insisted, a week ago, on Mr Dacic, that the time had not come for people in Serbia to settle down and that the time had not come for historians to let go of what was happening 60 years ago. The DS believes that history should be left to those who are studying it, that what happened in World War II should not be the subject of controversy or politics in parliament and the DS has done a good thing because this law has supported it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10951	National MP Ivica Dacic, a replica to the MP Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10952	I apologize to the MPs of New Serbia after I had distracted the mind that Mr Vela Ilic was not in good relations with the DOS leadership at the time and that the party did not act as a ruling coalition at the time. I think it's for them to be proud. I apologize for putting them in that basket, so those who exercised power over a certain period of time. On the other hand, I don't want to go any further on last session. You know that our position was such that the past could not be calm by changing history, but everyone decided the way he thought it should be, how voters would react, and we'll see it in some of the next choices. As far as we're concerned, we're simply expecting that, since all parties and DS have expressed so much interest in such a law, and even gave a quorum, that probably, I suppose, there are more important laws in this country than this. I guess then you'll be cohabitating with the current government, and that's why I find it odd that you didn't give the quorum to hold this session, because it seems to me that this session might be more important than the previous one. That's your call. As far as we're concerned, I repeat again, relations with the DS are very clear to us. Relations with each other antipathies, we're mutually political opponents, everyone has their own way, I just don't know, you've kind of turned a lot to the left, so friends and friends of the Socialist International, I don't know how they'll interpret what you voted for the right hand in the last session. But that's your thing. The survival of Serbia-Montenegro's state union is not the most important issue, but the most important question is whether it will survive the unity between the Serb and Montenegrin people and we will always support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10953	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dusan Petrovic, head of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10954	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the DS supports the law on electing MPs for the Serbia-Montenegro parliament. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro is a special and quite state-owned creation. So far, constitutional history and political history have not been recorded by this community. Probably after the break-up of the SCG relationship, which will end with SCG entering the EU, these state-owned structures will not be in the future. It's a long way from the SCG state community from being perfect. There are many problems, the functioning of the state community is not satisfactory. The question arises as to what is the alternative and whether, on the given political occasion, in the international situation, in the given position that Serbia-Montenegro has in international relations, there is some kind of solution that would be better for Serbia's state interests than the existing state union. The DS does not see the solution at the moment, and therefore the DS believes that respect for the Constitutional Charter is in the best interest of the Serbian state. Respect for the Constitutional Charter and the rules on how the state union parliament should be established says we are ahead of the elections that should give an answer that 91 people's representatives of Serbia will sit and represent Serbian citizens in the state union parliament. In order for these elections to be held, it is necessary for Serbia to pass a law on the election of MPs and therefore the DS will vote in favour of the law. There are great dangers that Serbia, however, would be in a difficult position, would be exposed if at this time there was a disseminating state union with Montenegro. In 2005, the KIM issue, all the opportunities, will enter into status resolution or final status and Serbia must, as far as it is in its power, maintain its power to be able to affect as much as possible the settlement of the KIM's final status. On the other hand, political factors in Serbia, above all, are parliamentary parties, which are located in this assembly, should, according to the DS, with the deepest attention and full commitment to ensure that this issue is seen in Montenegro and that none of their political gestures contribute to destabilising the opportunity in Montenegro. Whether the issue of representation in the SCG community parliament in Montenegro will be resolved in this way, above all, is the issue of the agreement of Montenegro's policy, but in addition, it is very important that the international community, primarily the EU, which is the guarantee of the Belgrade Agreement, and the Belgrade Agreement is on the basis of the Constitutional Charter, that its opinion, which is very important in our case, which is relevant. If Belgrade, Podgorica and Brussels find that the Montenegrin side can also otherwise ensure its participation in the state union parliament and in the executive government of the state union, the DS sees no reason for Serbia to stand in the way. To recapitulate, because of KIM, it seems that as soon as possible for us to continue our approach to the EU, it is the state interest of Serbia to maintain a community with Montenegro and therefore it is necessary to adopt this law. On the technical side, the DS is agreed that elections will be held by the entire state being one electoral unit. We believe that it is good for the seriousness of presenting in Parliament to be 5% and we have intervened with the amendments that we will discuss in particular, which should improve the bill when it comes to voting in the diaspora and possibly presenting the diaspora in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10955	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law. We've made a few amendments. I'd at least explain the one that's most important to us later. We are not participants in the Belgrade Agreement, signatories of the Belgrade Agreement, we did not vote for the Constitutional Charter, and today I consider it an unconstitutional way to change the SRJ Constitution and today I consider your act to be a coup against a country called the SRJ until then, and you know that it began from the moment that Vojislav Kostunica, president of Yugoslavia, submitted an application for SRJ membership to the EU. From this unconstitutional move that only the federal government had the right to make, one fundamental unconstitutional move followed, and so we came to the Constitutional Charter that the SRS MPs now have to respect. No one dared to announce her unconstitutional, the way she was brought in, no one dared to declare her unconstitutional, none of those in charge of it, and now we have a Constitutional Charter that we have to abide by. When you negotiated a country called Serbia-Montenegro, you convinced the third partner of the EU that the SCG was neither separated nor as a state, is not ready for direct elections, you asked that MPs from the assembly represent temporarily in the Assembly of the citizens of the Republic or of the Member States, as you called it uncompromising, but you made a commitment in February 2005 to be ready for elections that will be held directly. Here they are, right in front of us. For several months now, I have had the opportunity to talk to people who decide in this country because they represent major political parties and I have always advocated holding direct elections for the SCG Assembly. The reasons - first, Montenegro's leadership doesn't want them. Montenegro's leadership is looking for a way to pardon the EU's third partner to recognise that Montenegro is not yet ready for direct elections for who knows what reasons. One reason I hear it's listed here, which is the state no longer exists. It's like telling a walking man he's dead. The people who run that country, who take all her money, who command the armed forces of that state, the virtual state, only money is not virtual, power is not virtual, weapons are not virtual. It's not right, it's hypocritical that one party in power behaves like that. The citizens can't take it anymore. If at a time when Slobodan Milosevic was in the majority knew something, it was known who was the government, who was the opposition. There were those from the opposition who secretly stormed Milosevic, now they won't admit it, and there were us who were working with him publicly. At this time, you don't know who the government is, who the opposition is. When it takes power, when it needs money, cars, secretaries, travels, you're power. When the government has to make a move, you're the opposition. It'll help someone from the opposition make a decision that you don't want to support. That's how you challenge at least two political parties here who are in opposition to helping pass the law. Indeed, it would be strange for someone on the street to ask me - why you worked against direct elections, especially when all of Serbia is supposed to be one electoral unit, when it says so in our programme. I couldn't explain why we'd be against it. If you need to finally clear it up. What's wrong with this law? You both accepted the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter. Now that it has to be implemented, there is no state. There is a state of Serbia-Montenegro and no one can lift it. You predicted that the citizens would abolish it with a referendum. Hold those referendums. The political will of the power of the oligarchy of ruling parties from both Serbia and Montenegro to abolish the state is not enough anymore. We, unfortunately, have in Serbia the party's power to abolish the state of Serbia-Montenegro. They speak plainly and plainly. It seems that no one in Serbia is ashamed of what they do. He can do whatever he wants and feel no shame. The law is good. The law is basically prescribed by the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. There are some provisions that should be changed, because they turned out not to be good. That's where I primarily think of the vote abroad. I'm not ashamed. If voters abroad were allowed to vote, as it said in the law, the SRS would be a convincing winner in the election. I think we'd form a government ourselves. Wherever you're going, whoever you're talking to from abroad, he's talking about the SRS. You've arranged for embassy staff, their families and drivers to vote and we've come up with some crazy results. That's why those who kept boxes abroad, mostly for small political parties, I have to admit, the big ones were disgusted, spent almost a third of the money spent on making elections in Serbia's territory. In what, three, four thousand votes abroad? Don't make fun of us and don't kid yourself. The way the law provides is not good for the vote of our voters abroad. No, it doesn't allow a vote abroad. Find a better way, hire a technique, hire institutes, academy, electrical engineering college. Find a way for the voter abroad to not be stolen, so that control can be carried out, and we will accept the vote abroad. This vote in the embassies, in diplomatic representations, where a man has to travel a few hundred or thousands of miles to vote, is not acceptable to us and we are not ashamed to say and not piss off voters abroad, they know what our reasons are. I don't know why you once again insisted on the provisions that have already proved in practice not to bring anything. Serbia has to hold this election. Serbia must no longer make any move that could serve anyone to use in punishing a state called Serbia-Montenegro as the cause of some move by the Republic of Serbia. He left you no Belgrade Agreement, no Constitutional Charter left you an opportunity to choose. Tell that to the authorities in Montenegro. There is no way to choose the electoral law, the way of choice, only provided for by this law. Do not extend your mandate to MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, there is no excuse for that. I could accept an excuse that would bring some two months tops if we really agreed on a constitution. If we succeed in agreeing on the constitution and if this is a completely promising thing, if there is no time until February to go to a referendum on the amendments to the Constitution, if this is March or April, I accept that, with the conviction of anyone who would stand up against it, we postpone to a month or two direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. If it turns out that writing the constitution has nothing, then there's no reason, there's no excuse for us to harm the Constitutional Charter, although you're hurting it in agreement with Montenegro's leadership, on a number of grounds. I warn you, the Constitution must not harm even if you agree to hurt him. Who are we to agree to harm the Constitution? Did we bring him here? We didn't. There was a majority who made that decision. There is even a obligation for the Serbian Constitution to go to the referendum. Without the majority that the Constitution has made, without the majority that the Constitution provides for its changes, don't make any decisions. There are two ministers, defenses and foreign affairs, to which we have no right under the Constitutional Charter. (President: Are you using another ten minutes? I'm done, and I won't answer again. We have no right to have a Minister of Defense and a Minister of Foreign Affairs under the Constitutional Charter, we do. Maybe one of you likes it. I don't like it. I keep wondering what you gave the leadership of Montenegro, because you would never have agreed if you hadn't made another concession. If there are concessions to Montenegro's leadership, tell us publicly. Maybe we'll take some concessions and agree to keep the state going. So, you know everything, you decide, you have the right to know, the blessed are those who live in ignorance. That won't get us far. We've offered you amendments, we'll have a debate about them, we'll try to convince you. The fate of the amendment is not the fate of the law. It's not an amendment to our blackmail, but, frankly, by the end of the debate, we'll be thinking whether you're the government or not, whether you deserve to be power or not. When you have passed a law, how many of the messengers who do rule voted for it, and how many of those who do not exercise authority? It is immoral to exercise authority without providing for the majority of you here or to come before us with a law that someone in power comes out for a pay phone and says, "I won't vote for this law." The coalition is difficult, the measure of patience is seen in the coalition. Either show patience in that coalition or there will be new coalitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10957	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10958	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, the SPS will vote in favour of this law. Simply, the relationship to this law is a relationship to the common state. The common state is beyond the need and necessity of both the Serb and Montenegrin people. It is clear that Serbs and Montenegrins are one nation or at least two people of the same origin, language, culture, history or, as our President Milosevic said, Serbs and Montenegrins are two eyes in the head. It's clear that the bigger territory, the better, the bigger the market, the bigger the territory, it's better security. If the state were to be as small as possible, the Americans would have deployed their country to 53 or how many states there are in America. On the contrary, they do everything to keep this conglomerate of various peoples, Spanish, Mexicans, Englishmen, and not everyone else together. We know how brutally they behave when they come to separatist demands. That's where we can't even compare the relationship, for example, between America and us and the Montenegrins, because I repeat, we are the same people. What is important in this law and what is the greatest danger in implementing this law is Article 7 which says that the election for MPs is being called by the president of Serbia-Montenegro, which is Svetozar Marovic. Will Svetozar Marovic even call this election? It is a big sign of the question, but in order to know that we should remind the developmental political pathway of Svetozar Marovic. Svetozar Marovic came to power sometime in the late 1970s on the wings of Serbian pride and dignity in defending the interests of Serbs and Montenegrins who were very threatened in Kosovo and Metohija. The entire set, and Bulatovic, and Marovic and Djukanovic thus came to power. In the early 1990s, Svetozar Marovic was very honorable in the imposed war. After all, we are aware and we know very well that at that time the current president of Serbia-Montenegro was saying that we were at war to preserve peace. He also said that the Serbs in this civil war had passed almost as Jews in World War II, but the great transformation of Svetozar Marovic came in the mid-90s when it was in part (1996, 1997). The separatist idea of Montenegrin leadership. That idea wasn't an accident. Of course, at the beginning and mid-90s, they said, both Marovic and Djukanovic, that the issue of the common state is a democratic issue and that all it takes is for Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS to leave and that every issue of the common state will be resolved. Their open separatism only appeared in 2000, i.e. after October 5th. Another danger, and if these elections are discussed, will there be direct elections in Montenegro, and that is a big sign of the issue and all that I have said for Serbia-Montenegro President Svetozar Marovic, this also applies to Milo Djukanovic. Milo Djukanovic came to power in the late 1980s in the same way, acting the same way in the early 1990s when civil war took place in Yugoslavia. His statement at the time is also known that we must negotiate with Croats, Ustashas, bloodsuckers, who have broken our country. These are statements both Djukanovic and Marovic. And in 1997, he set out on the path of separatism. Now the question is, why are they acting like this? According to some of my deep convictions, he's being blackmailed. The Hague tribunal is Damokle's sword. It is possible that Marovic and Djukanovic were both told -- and you can end up in The Hague, at least that's how I quoted several of their statements and their behaviours, and that these circles insist on separating our country and tearing Serbia-Montenegro. On the other hand, that blackmail can be of other nature. I carefully read the book of Momir Bulatovic in which he spoke about all events during the 1990s. It is about one big smuggling in Montenegro, where the main protagonists were Djukanovic, and to the gods St. Marovic. Besides, if it were different, they would sue Momir Bulatovic. It is possible that the blackmail is also on that side, as it is quite clear that the great interest of both Serbia-Montenegro and Serbs and Montenegrins is that the common state survives. When it comes to Serbia itself, Serbia's majority is for the common state. There are many reasons for the country to survive, but who is in Serbia today against the common state. The common state is mainly minor political parties, parties that do not deserve any attention. They and their leaders are on all TV stations, Batic, Protic, but also many others. All the media are against the common state, because on all our media, TV stations, and God damn it, the most common guests are those who are against the common state. But who are these people? In these media, and when it comes to TV stations and when it comes to newspapers, these are people who are primarily paid and most often by Soros, these are people who have the same attitudes as an international crisis group. You are all witnessing that representatives of the international crisis group have been talking about this for several years -- either you will have Kosovo, or you will be EU. They're all on the same assignment. I'm surprised that the government's representatives, if there's no control on other media anymore, are also happening on RTS. RTS is the same thing as BK, same as B92. One necessity, it is some control, but all political views should be equally represented, and when it comes to the common state, it is quite clear that Serbia is the majority for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. When it comes to the Constitutional Charter itself, she is bad. You know that we were not in favour of such a constitutional charter, but we again believe that the common state is both necessary and necessary, and that it is a much better solution than two independent states. If the common state is torn apart, it is absolutely certain that Montenegro will become an easy prey for all those enemies who are also enemies of our Serbian state. Simply, at the end of the day, we don't have any better friends or bigger brothers than the Montenegrins. And it is our great interest to preserve the common state, because otherwise, I think that both Serbia and Serbia would be very quickly and very easily torn apart. In any case, we will support this bill, because we believe it is a major contribution to the preservation of the common state, which is imperative at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10959	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's not in the O.R. The People's MP Zoran Ćirković has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, we can look at the matter both sides, politically and technically. I will talk about this other side of this law, for the simple reason that I had the opportunity to plead on the common state, i.e. the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, at a time when it was current. Of course, the SPO was not then a parliamentary party, so that the new Serbia could only plead. That I'm still looking at this fact that can be problematic. Indeed, she has nothing to do with this law. We are making this law in good faith to prescribe rules of the election match in Serbia. Problems can arise unless the president of the state union, Mr. Marovic, respects the letter of the Constitutional Charter and calls the elections. This is not excluded, because simply in some of his statements he leaves the possibility for Member States to agree on the matter. If Serbia insists on these elections under any law it has passed, and Montenegro does not insist on it, or if it boycotts them or simply does not pass the law, although the Belgrade Agreement states that the law will be according to modern European democratic standards and a comprehensive formulation was later passed in the Constitutional Charter in this direct way of elections. To get back to this technical matter. At this point, we are really saying that it is necessary for this electoral legislation to be regulated. Indeed, it is time for that to come to pass. Now indeed, local elections and elections at the level of the state community, we have, therefore, proportionate and pure proportional electoral system, because it applies this formula of pure proportionality or this Her-Nimayer method, which is really nothing, it simply means, translated into plain language, as much money as music. As many votes as you have, you get as many mandates, and at the level of the Serbian state, we apply that method to Dont's ratio. Let's explain how these things work. Dont's ratio is not a purely proportional system, for the simple reason he favors parties with greater political influence, and of course it is manifested with greater support of the electoral body. So I really advocate applying a pure proportional system and that it applies at all levels of choice, both at local and state level and at the level of the state community. Regardless of whether the election will be at a time prescribed by the Constitutional Charter or not, Serbia should pass an electoral law because it is committed by signing the Belgrade Agreement and signing the Constitutional Charter. I'm going to comment, since I've suggested something that seems controversial to me, these Articles 17 and 18. The bill, and these members have been set up to distribute parliamentary mandates. Indeed, it seems important to say that, in the position of Article 17, there should be a transformation, and it should, in my humble belief, be read like this – that only election lists, which received at least 5% of the total number of valid ballots, and not the votes of voters who voted. Why do I think it's important and why does it have to stand like that? For a simple reason, if the voter goes to the polls and is ready to express his political will, then he must hand over a neat ballot. If he wants to demonstrate, he's right. If he is unhappy, he has the right to do so, he can hand over an unsettled ballot. The disorderly ballot does not participate in the allocation of mandates, therefore it should not participate even in the formation of censors. One more thing, you can have one serious boycott, otherwise we've had such an opportunity in the previous period, there were really many, as they say, mushrooms after the rain. I remember, there were six candidates in one presidential election, and only three candidates had more votes than not, and the next three had fewer votes than there were invalid votes. That kind of election actually went through a fiasco. So, once again, it would really be necessary to sort it out. If ballots alone define the allocation of mandates, then invalid ballots should not affect the censorship. I allowed myself to define the electoral threshold as the number of valid ballots and the total number of elected MPs, for the simple reason it is a beautiful Serbian word – the electoral threshold. What's the election threshold? The electoral threshold, therefore, is the "price" of an MP. That's the number of votes needed to get one MP. This way, natural censorship or electoral threshold, so I will say the electoral threshold, in our circumstances, when Serbia elects 91 MPs to the state union, is 1.1%. If we prescribe 5% for all electoral competitions, except for the parties and coalitions representing national minorities, we are in fact doing so for reasons to prevent the paralysing of parliamentary work. If there are fewer political entities participating in parliament, the deal is assumed to be possible on the one hand. On the other hand, if we respect the right of positive discrimination for representatives of national minorities, then indeed their electoral threshold is 1.1 rather than 5% imposed. The electoral threshold, the number of mandates won by the parties, or by the coalition of national minorities, is obtained by dividing the total number of valid ballots, i.e. their political parties, by 91. Now that acquired factor becomes a divisor. So, like this, once again, the number of valid ballots is divided by 91 and that's the electoral threshold, and the electoral threshold is the divisor of the national minority party's valid ballots. So that's what I've come to realize, I'm not against the electoral threshold for the simple reason that I think national minorities should participate in our public political life. The truth is that other parties can only be damaged in one case, if they put representatives of national minorities on their list, that is, under one. And two, if national minorities do not vote for them, then simply at the expense of their electoral bodies, they give them mandates, but that's another topic. Only two members were under this heading distributed, those are Articles 17 and 18, and indeed, it seemed to me that the current text could be corrected in Article 18 so that in paragraph 3 it stands – if several electoral lists have the same decimal part of the previous number of mandates. I've kept this formulation, although it seems to me to be a ruse, but good. The advantage has a list with a larger number of works and what I stand for, and it says here – well, the number of unallocated mandates is less than the number of these electoral lists and draw determines which of them gets mandates. This is how it's supposed to be done. The quantity to be obtained by applying the formula mentioned, that whole section determines the number of mandates. When all these numbers add up, they won't get out until 91. The number 91 includes the decimal parts and, of course, the decimal parts should be arranged in order to distribute the mandates. If two electoral lists happen to have the same decimal part, then priority should be given to that electoral list that has a larger integer. If it happens, which is theoretically possible, and practically very rarely, simply and impossible, but if two electoral lists happen to have the same integer and decimal part, then it means that they have the same number of valid ballots, in which case, the advantage has a list that was previously submitted, and if it happens that they are handed over on the same day, then it is only then that the lot should be applied, for the simple reason why we don't know which parameter we're going to favour. So, once again, by pushing for electoral legislation that must be fair and just, I felt I needed to talk about this thing. This law of New Serbia and the SPO will support, for the simple reason that it regulates a matter that is now not regulated, because there is simply no law that has been passed, except for one where MPs have been elected indirectly, and we agree that this is not good. We also advocate to arrange this by removing all possible doubt and inconsistencies and making it fairer for all participants in the election game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10961	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, Mr Krasic has come, and we will take the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10962	Finally, those who have been working on the Belgrade Agreement in the presence of Javier Solana, since then, everything has changed except Solana, he is still in the post of High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Reconciliation, Peacemaker. When it came to the development of a more modern Federation, something called the state community, neither fish nor women, was created that no one could define and behold miracles, at the moment when the agreement was signed, two signatories were startled, after they had signed, they realized that nothing had been signed, and that nothing was clear about what would be. DOS went according to its election promise, made the Constitutional Charter, and today we are witnessing that those who have signed the Agreement and those who have made the Constitutional Charter or some of them are trampling on their signature and by their pronoun called the Constitutional Charter. Now, all those who did not favorably look at the agreement and the constitutional charter, and who raised their voice, and here in this assembly did not support the constitutional charter, did not support that phantom law on the procedure and way of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, now come into the situation that, in order to defend some common formation of the Serbian people, they should advocate a law that regulates direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. What happened in the meantime? Why someone changed their attitudes. Attitudes were only changed because that road uphill, as one last week said, as popularity grew in awe, 30 percent, and something else moved it up, they saw it was a sizif business, that there was no popularity, and if it went to direct elections, something else followed. But this law can be criticised. However, the group does not want to criticise its minister sitting in the formation called the state union. He won't criticise the minister who's signing off on selling some property. Of course, it's not his, he's an expert in disarmament, so as part of his permanent profession, it's also the destruction of everything he gets his hands on. It may not be an issue of electoral law, to get hold of this, but we are talking about political attitudes. I mean, I don't talk about who's name on purpose, but I point out what someone's political attitude is based on. You've created a state community that essentially has only two national competences. The first jurisdiction should probably be defence and security, more defense, and the second jurisdiction should be foreign affairs. In two years' time, we've had our biggest failure at these jobs, not to talk about who's representing the state in foreign affairs. Of course, to anyone who cares about the preservation of this community, but above all as a community of citizens who once lived in the SRJ, everyone is primarily the first national and political interest to change that power at the level of the state community, because there is essentially no government there. All the negotiations, the negotiations, they usually end up on the phone, and they end with the red ones, where Solana needs to give her her tanny, to calm down, to direct, and then we have, she says -- two tracks. Who knows what that means - two tracks? Say, there's no state community, there's only a process of further decomposition, and all that's offered to us, it's just a media picture, which is more for and who's more against it. There is no honesty and because there is no honesty, we have a bill like this that has 26 members. From the point of view of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, it was all possible to regulate it with five members, to only confirm what is in our Law on the selection of MPs, to define in one member how many MPs are elected and to simply point out some of the provisions that exist in the regulations at the level of the state community on the verification of mandates and the termination of the mandate. There was no real need for 26 members of this bill at all, but probably after the Constitutional Charter, democratic standards had to change as well. The proof of this is certain provisions that we have submitted to the amendments. That's what we'll talk about when there's a story about amendments. I must remind myself that in 1992, when, as a result of the round table of government and opposition, the Law on the Selection of MPs was adopted in December 1992, something drawn up as a democratic standard, a democratic principle. It is a proportional electoral system, Serbia as one electoral unit and the allocation of mandates according to Dont's method, i.e. the largest factor system. Under this system, the mandates of MPs sitting in this congregation today have been assigned. We don't know why it had to be avoided in this bill and going to some decimal term. Something was accepted that was the result of the fraud that occurred in this congregation when the Law on Local Elections was passed. At that time Nebojsa Covic spoke - we are passing the law because of three municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, new principles are introduced and in the absence of political consent, the law remains, under the law local elections were conducted and we have a situation that rare these places are rare, these municipalities where local self-government can be said to operate in accordance with the law. The problems are yet to be expected, not only because of the low 3% censorship, but also because of those famous coefficients, you know what the ridiculous allocations of mandates were, and here are the drawbacks, as if the mandate of one MP depended on whether it passed on the Russian roulette or on the quick fingers. It can't be shared and that at some point it depends on something that might be called happiness. I do not see any valid reason why these MPs sitting in the National Assembly have received mandates under the system of the largest amount, and those who need to be across the way, 91 of them, at a significant amount to get their mandates. What's fairer? I don't know what's fairer, I just know that, as a result of the 1992 agreement between the authorities and the opposition, a promotional system of the largest amount and without that kind of consent on any round table that would be achieved in a free conversation without a majority, minority, voting, overvote, no need to change that principle. What is the specificity of these MPs to sit in the SCG Assembly? Aren't they people's representatives? Don't they also represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's what this law offers us. This law also offers us something called positive discrimination. Positive discrimination inevitably stems from the fact that there is negative discrimination on the other side. We don't need that in law. If, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are a civil society with equal rights before the law and before the Constitution, we are equal, why are we making some discrimination. There's no reason to make discrimination. Those who are called upon in the light of this law to some democratic standard prescribed by international acts, there is one act, which is not applied in the countries of Western Europe, which, even if those who have adopted the Constitutional Charter of the Minor Pathological Weight, have also entered into the Constitutional Charter as the ultimate goal of the state union, as if it were not our ultimate goal to regulate the state to be normal, to be possible, to exercise all rights and to ensure fundamental social justice. No, in the Constitutional Charter, it's not the goal, it's the integration. In such a context, we are offered this bill. It is necessary, because the SRS is always for direct elections, at least when it comes to the selection of the national representatives, because national sovereignty and, what is said, the people are the source and streams of each government, and this has been built on Serbian parliamentaryism for about 120 years. It can only be preserved by direct elections. What we had so far in the National Assembly and the way we elected MPs to the National Assembly was an indirect form, a transitional solution. So, the law on direct elections of MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly needs us. We have submitted several amendments aimed at normalising this law, to be good, to be applicable and also to point out the shortcomings that have occurred for the past two years, when someone has unauthorizedly touched the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether it is a local level or this republican level. All those who think about the system – the state community is a propagatory, it has some limited duration, all those who enter into thinking about what is older, egg or chicken, or whether a referendum is needed first, so the elections, fall into the trap of the criminalised regime of Milo Djukanovic, I must tell you. It's that big trap. They're making their story go away. Their story has no touch points with the people's interests and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Montenegro. The story has its background in the suspension of some criminal proceedings, in the further decommissioning of this political, national and economic space, fits into the scenario of atomising this space and fully fits into a system of government-free governments. Those of you who act as the Government of the Republic of Serbia should trade, if not because of you and your political interests, then for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, to look at that cabinet session whether it's the Government with one prime minister or 15 prime ministers, because there are some things that even citizens can't take anymore. The deputy minister on a TV show, he says, "We're going to tear down power with some opposition party and go to our office tomorrow, of course, in the government." Similarly happens with this small-scale parliamentary group, a party that makes up the government of the Republic of Serbia. When they're economic regulations, then we're pressing, but I know you're raising your hand even though you're not up to it. When they press you, like what happened last week for that law, you, come on, accept that the unity is preserved. When you care, your president promised Solana that by Monday the law was passed, here's a knife in the back right now. Now for historical reasons, there are any reasons. The main reason is that we have political parties who believe that the state community must not exist, not only in this form but in no form can it exist. It's all in the government. Don't make us, I keep warning you, we can't keep you still. The rule is, when it comes out with some legal project in front of the National Assembly, all parties that make up the government, the promoters, must sit down to agree. If you didn't agree to don't go out, then you're being ridiculous. You saw it yourself just before the vote. The government has proposed to enter the agenda, and the parliamentary majority does not accept the government's proposal. So you voted against the government. Be serious if you think you're running the country. The state is serious and one party cannot say – we are not for direct elections, we are to postpone another year, you know we respect the law. What law? Now, don't let us who were against the Constitutional Charter call upon the provisions of the Constitutional Charter to discipline you. Don't do that. It's not right or right. Why should we respect the law and regulations more than you? So it won't be the law passed because of the opposition. All right, let's make it legal for the opposition. Respect what you have written. We don't call you to promises, we just invite you to what you wrote. Direct elections are far better than indirect elections. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. We need choices. Why? Let's change, this doesn't look like anything. Which one of you has authorized Marovic to go as some kind of masseuse and just apologize? Whose name is he apologizing to? Who authorized him to apologize? Who authorized Vuk Draskovic to confess certain things? Stabilize the government if you can. If you can't stabilize the government, then let's stop acting. We're playing for nothing, 'cause that road the acting is leading is nowhere. Last time I warned you, don't let us get into a situation to inform us one day that there are no more states, but it's part of democratic changes, the elections come, no matter who comes to power, it's just gonna grab his head when he sees what's left. Take care. Don't charge yourself because you've all been in power. If that's an argument to you why you don't need to pass this law, then it's unserious. You can see for yourself that someone's goal is to break up the state community. In the destruction of the state community, then there is no need to talk to occupiers in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. There's no need to talk. See for yourself what happens to the army, everything and everything just to lose the defense ability. You see they serve the army across the street, they serve the army. Take care, the state is a serious thing, and if you're ready and willing to keep it, to allow it to develop, do the job, and if you're not able to do it, move. Better alone than in some other way. Anyway, we need the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10963	The People's Messenger Verica Radeta has the word, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10964	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the public of Serbia, the public of Montenegro knows that the SRS was the most fierce opponent of breaking the SRJ, that we were the loudest opponent to create this experimental quasi-community, which is nowhere in the world. It was you who did it with Javier Solan, and that's why we have problems like we have today. Not today, but recently. The Serbian Radical Party was against the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. We have not participated in the signing of the Belgrade Agreement either, but we Serbian radicals will never, in any way, make any move that would endanger the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Montenegro, which would endanger the state and national interest. That's exactly why we accept it, and we think it's good to have this law passed, maybe not exactly like this, but in any case, this law needs to be passed. We even think it might be a little late, given that, according to the Constitutional Charter in early February, these elections should be held in the so-called so-called so-called "The Constitution". The federal level, and it seems to me, it's time for those elections to be called out. I think we should all make an effort, of course, to discuss, to discuss, but to make sure that this law is passed in this House, to show all the common good will to preserve the state union and the unity of Serbia-Montenegro. That is why it is worrying that some representatives of the government publicly, for this pay phone, we have read it back several months in the papers, listened to it on television, but it is precisely to refrain so much that they say that they will not vote for the government's proposal of a law like this, it is not serious at all. Of course, it is a matter of those who take care of the state in this way, and no one seriously ever expected such people to take proper care of the state. We are now showing through debate and voting on this law, the seriousness and attitude of the SRS towards state and national interests. There are some of this law, I would say, mana and we, the MPs of the SRS, have submitted several, four or five amendments with, indeed, sincere desire and intention to accept these amendments and to make this legal text really much better and to be, most importantly, applicable. You know, respected colleagues, and you, Mr. Minister, when we talked about election laws, about those changes that were under way before the presidential elections, we drew your attention to some of the provisions of the law that would question even the regularity of the election, which would make the work and implementation of the elections more difficult, and in practice we were right. For this reason, we also spoke to the Committee on Justice and Administration and asked Mr. Minister nicely to accept our amendments. I really do not know any valid reason why this has not been done, but I hope that the MPs, and especially after our debate in particular, will accept such changes, or amendments to this legal text, because the amendments are indeed with good intentions, and that this law is as easy and as easy as possible to apply in practice. I will now very briefly refer to several members of this law, because we do not essentially have any significant objections to this law, at least not so significant that we could not vote for it, but despite the possible and unadopted amendments and our unacceptable proposals for the correction of this law, we cannot say that such a text is to us, so whatever the reason to contribute, don't give God, to breaking the Serbia-Montenegro community. None of the Serbian radicals will ever do that, it's for sure. In Article 11. The proposal for this law is about the right to protect and protect the electoral process. We have proposed here in the text not to talk about violation of the electoral right, for the simple reason, we think we should talk about the protection of the electoral right and that is precisely because of the violation of the electoral right. Election law is protected from violations of electoral law. It is a purely formal remark and I hope that by the end of this debate it will be accepted. We have also suggested that Article 17 be deleted. That's the member who's talking about the so-called. positive discrimination. We in the SRS believe that no discrimination can be legal or positive or negative, because any positive discrimination, so-called. positive, inevitably producing negative discrimination for someone else, as negative discrimination produces something positive for someone else. That's why we thought that this article should be deleted, and that's what we explained when we talked about amendments and amendments to the law on the election of presidents and MPs. We have a different attitude towards national minorities. We propose to all parties in Serbia to open themselves to all national minorities, as the SRS has done since its founding, and in our party are representatives of all national minorities, in our party there are party officials from all national minorities. There is no need for representatives of national minorities to be introduced to parliament at some small door, but they can do so as members of parliamentary parties, i.e. as members of the parties that become parliamentary parties after the elections. It's the principled attitude of the SRS. We are truly convinced that this is the right approach to resolving the issue of national minorities. Of course, we absolutely respect all national minorities and we have always advocated and we will always stand up for all the rights of national minorities to the highest European and world standards. I've said all of this so that we don't get it wrong or comment on what we've been asking for to delete this article from the bill. We also asked that Article 18 be changed. The bill also states that when determining the number of mandates, Dont’s system is applied, which is applied in the election of MPs. I think this is also necessary because of the fact that this law has not in a comprehensive way resolved the issue of elections, but in Article 23, it states that a subsidiary law on the selection of MPs is being applied. If nothing else, then this should be a reason for the Dont system to remain in force and for MPs to be elected in the same way to both the National Assembly and the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. You have also heard from colleagues Krasic and Mr Tomislav Nikolic that no one has ever had a comment on the allocation of the mandate since Dont's system was introduced into our legal system and our electoral system. There is no reason, I have not heard it from you ministers or on the board, and not today when you spoke in the opening statement, which would really be justified to go on a change in the way in which you determine the number of mandates. It's like something that's been established, which, through practice, has shown that it works, and no one has any objections, has been erased from this bill, and something that has been shown to be very problematic in practice, you've kept. It is in this Article 23, and all the issues that are not regulated by this law are properly applied to the provisions of the law governing the choice of MPs, and we think that should be added - except for the vote abroad. I'll explain it a little bit wider. Never did we, the Serbian radicals, object to voting in our elections and our citizens abroad. That's what we said every time we discussed election laws. Unfortunately, there are still no conditions in Serbia to vote abroad. You, Mr. Minister, know very well both as a minister and as a member of the RIK, and especially as a member of the RIK, as much as the RIK has had to do with these elections abroad. And if your ministry, meanwhile, had arranged these voter lists abroad, we wouldn't mind keeping that vote. You know for a fact that there has been no movement since then in that direction, and yet this will be just another problem, which will not affect the election will or the election result. There are too few of those votes brought from abroad, and too much work on it and too much of the funds allocated to it. Mr. Minister, you said you had an opinion from RIK regarding the bill. It's not like that. You have made the RIK proposal of this law, you have met individually, because you too are a member of the Commission, with that law, and you have not held a session, because if you had, I say to you that the members of the SRS at RIK would ask for exactly what I have said about this vote abroad, for this Dont system and all of these remarks that we have made. Therefore, the SRS parliamentary group does not have any fundamental objections to this law. The law is such that it can be voted for, but, above all, because of the fact that this law must be passed, which we, God forbid, if we did not pass this law, we would question the existence and survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The SRS will never, in any way, contribute to anything. That's why we think you can vote for this bill, with all his faults. I propose to my fellow Members of the People, and before that to Mr. Lonchar, that, when we speak in detail, they accept these amendments. Believe me, like every time so far, everything we propose through the amendments, in practice it would have been good if it had been accepted at that time. Without vanity, Mr. Minister, accept our amendments and we will have quite a solid law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10965	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, and let MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10966	Dear Mr President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, one of the general characteristics of the former Yugoslavia's space for more than a decade is the dynamics that, above all, emerges in instability, uncertainty and uncertainty and the states, and borders, and rights, and freedoms, and political institutions, and laws, and the Constitution. In Serbia-Montenegro, unfortunately, this instability, this instability is somehow the most consistent. This is also seen in the case of the Constitutional Charter, which was adopted less than a year ago. We are talking today about the adoption of laws whose adoption in principle should not be the subject of debate in either the Serbian parliament or the Montenegrin parliament. The issue of passing this law was resolved by the 2002 Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter of 4 February 2003. The Constitutional Charter is a framework for the work and functioning of political institutions in both Serbia and Montenegro, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or the Constitution of the Republic of Montenegro, such as laws, other regulations and general acts. Today, however, other issues dominate the political public. It is a question of the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the issue of indirect and direct elections, the matter of delaying elections to the referendum and other issues. First and foremost, it is a matter of the state community. There's not a lot of dilemmas and there's a whole lot of clarity. We have two options: one is the preservation of the state union, and the other is the withdrawal from the state community. It is legitimate to advocate both the preservation of the state community and the withdrawal from the state community. It is necessary to meet one condition, that the political action that follows as a consequence of the latter be legal, that is, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, the constitutions and laws of Serbia-Montenegro. In that sense, there is no need for difficult words or for any qualifications of those who are for the national community and those who believe that the state community should be interrupted. Whatever the outcome of these debates and whatever the final political outcome, the fact remains one, which is that Serbia-Montenegro binds so much that neither Serbia nor Montenegro will have anyone closer to each other today. The DS position and the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club is that we need a functioning community, a common state of Serbia-Montenegro, which will function as a full and respected member of the international community, for the benefit of all citizens living in Serbia-Montenegro. The DS will advocate such a community, but if it is objectively impossible for us to have such a community, we will understand that, especially given the trends that are present in the functioning of the state community and present in the public and political parties in Serbia-Montenegro. But that's the way. The Constitutional Charter made it clear that it could only be decided after three years. This is Article 60. Constitutional statutes. We must be serious and responsible and respect the highest legal act of the state community in which we live. That is why today we should not deal with the question of the fate of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. If we are talking about different visions, we must do so with respect for the rights of all who think differently. The second is the issue of indirect and direct elections. I think most of this room agrees that this issue has already been resolved. It was also resolved by the Constitutional Charter. We cannot discuss solutions from the Constitutional Charter in order to change them. If we want to discuss the Constitutional Charter's solutions in order to change them, we need to open the procedure, the procedure to change the Constitutional Charter, and this procedure is foreseen by the members 61st and 62st. Constitutional statutes. Then we can discuss everything and how many MPs will be in the Assembly of the State Community, in the end, as the state union will be called, we can also discuss how to decide, including elections for the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. We can't change the Constitutional Charter beyond the procedure for its change. Otherwise, we could always agree on everything, and instead of rule of law, we got the rule of oligarchy. Who, after that, would be bound by any constitution and by any law and by what state they would live in. It is not disputed that one part of the political parties in both Serbia and Montenegro do not match the direct elections for the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. That is absolutely logical, because their views do not contribute to the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. They're in one, the fact is, it's an awkward situation. If elections for the state union are direct, they must call on their voters to go to the polls, but they will not be consistent in their push to separate Serbia-Montenegro. Unless, however, they call on their voters to go to those elections, voters, in line with their definition expressed by being supporters of these political parties, will not go to those elections and then the political parties will achieve a small election result. I fully understand that, and I suppose it's clear to all of us, but this is a question beyond that party's political interest. This is a matter of rule of law and respect for the state in which we live. When it comes to Montenegro and the political party in Montenegro, I think we should have equal relations with those who represent one option and those who represent another option. Legally, every representation and every action that, as I just said, is legal. However, I hope that Montenegro will overcome its responsible position on this issue, as the Constitutional Charter has just come to life thanks to the decision of the Republic of Montenegro Assembly and the signatures that Montenegro's leaders, legitimately and legally chose, put on the so-called. The Belgrade Agreement. Finally, the Constitutional Charter contains both the right to step down from the Constitutional Charter and, as everyone must respect the will that will be expressed in accordance with and in a manner provided for in the Constitutional Charter, as everyone will have respect and understanding for the political position that will have the consequences of the citizens' plea if someone wishes to plead in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, so the Constitutional Charter must be respected and then the provision of the Constitutional Charter which speaks of elections for the state union. We cannot honor the Constitutional Charter only in that part, only in those members who correspond to individual political parties. So, for our Parliament club, the thing is quite clear. The Constitutional Charter has been respected and elections for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro are held directly, as provided for by the Constitutional Charter, and other issues will also be resolved in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, as it is the highest legal act of the community in which we live. However, here are some other questions that I think are very important and I will take the opportunity to ask Mr. Minister to give us an answer to these questions. What is the government's position if the Constitutional Charter and elections are not respected in the Republic of Montenegro for the state union. Secondly, does the government deliberately send two messages? One is that we should respect the Constitutional Charter and go to elections directly, and another message from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that the Constitutional Charter is being violated, that we simply agree to violate the Constitutional Charter. Whether it's a deal or something, I can't get into it, but anyway, this dissonance at the hands of the Prime Minister -- the Deputy Prime Minister doesn't seem much more serious to the government. The third question, what is the government's position on holding a referendum in Serbia, which could be held in accordance with the Constitutional Charter in the coming year and the survival of the state community. So these are very important questions that I would like to hear the answer to. I think the government must have them by now. These are events that are right in front of us. That response must be clear and unequivocal, because the government is a policy holder and it is obliged to counter-citate political developments and have ready answers to events that are coming to our meeting, because the government is the leader of a country. Citizens, including MPs, must know what their government will do when it comes to the most important issues and opportunities that come to us in the near future. The government must not act on the principle of commentation, mourning, and, well, someone has not fulfilled their obligation, see, the responsibility is on someone else, simply because analysts, journalists, in the end and citizens of fame, in cafes, in society, those who want to talk about politics. The government simply has to influence events and create opportunities to live on. Please, if you can answer a part of these questions, because I have failed to understand the government's position so far, I admit, in a very delicate situation that is once again due to certain conflicting views as to whether we should respect the Constitutional Charter. As a lawyer and legalist, I truly believe that we cannot talk now or in the future about whether we will respect the letter of the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter, the law, the regulations, any other act. The moment we agreed to do that, we crashed the idea of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10967	This is part of a political dialogue, this is not a parliamentary issue. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let the MP Miodrag Djidic be prepared. At the same time, allow me to inform you that I intend to conduct this session in my office. So, whatever there are ten other speakers that are all "yes", I will not allow a vote on a possible proposal to extend the work, because from 18.00 hours Serbian Television is unable to pass on the session, and it is the Assembly's obligation to work publicly. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the consequence of the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter is also a normal bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament. Instead of just discussing finesse here, the members of the bill, we have the opposite opinions by the government of the Republic of Serbia, where they are one for the adoption of this law, and the other against, which confuses both the MPs and the citizens and the public of Serbia as a whole. To be against Serbia being one electoral unit is not clear to me why. Against the election of 91 MPs, one can answer that question. Being against being a proportionate electoral principle is not clear to me. Being against 5% censorship is clear to me for those parties, most likely because it's a very large figure that's unattainable for them, so they're also against this proposal in the 5% censorship law. What I object to is that where positive discrimination is carried out i.e. that national minorities are elected according to the natural electoral principle, which should be expelled from this law. Using electoral law or not is a matter of citizens' will, the will of the political party, and there is no need to conduct a debate in the Assembly about it, and we also have protection of electoral rights, the electoral will of citizens, and that is two-degree protection, where the first degree of RIK is, and the second degree of protection of the Supreme Court of Serbia-Montenegro. I do not understand the message of one part of the government of the Republic of Serbia that the elections are delayed for a year, and on the other hand that the same political party is taking part in the government, in the rule of state union of Serbia-Montenegro, by having a defence minister. Why? The question arises why they want, on the one hand, to participate in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and on the other hand, do not want the elections directly for the establishment of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. They are believed to have one reason because they will not pass the 5% price, so they will not be able to participate, and this is how they can participate and thus destroy our military property, which has been estimated at around $20 billion and are already trying to destroy our military assets located in the territory of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. What concerns me most is this discrepancy in this House, this opposite opinion, because I think this bill is one state and national interest of Serbian citizens, and I don't need to, there's no reason to share here. What will most upset is the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, where I come from, and if we cannot agree here to guard what is ours, how we will manage to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who are currently exposed to the mercy and mercy of Cypriot terrorists and separatists in Kosovo and Metohija. This bill and this discussion in this assembly today opened our eyes somewhat on why there is no funds for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Why can't funds be provided to help the troubled people in Kosovo and Metohija, that's exactly what this is, if we know the policy of Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, then there will never be any funds for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I think this policy of advocating, destroying the state community and not helping Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand participation in government in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is possible only in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10969	The People's Messenger Miodrag Djidic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10970	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as the DS MPs have already said, will vote in favour of this law, and for that there are several reasons. I'll stand out two and stay on them. The first reason is that we want to absolutely respect the Constitutional Charter, because as already said here, we have participated in its adoption, unlike some other parties who have also participated, and today will not vote for the Constitutional Charter. Secondly, as a state-run party, the DS wants to preserve the state community for reasons that will certainly make it easier for us to enter the European Union, which is our ultimate goal and our great political motive. Also, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's survival within the Republic of Serbia is related to the state union. As you know, in the middle of next year, Kosovo will be resolved on the final status of Kosovo, and according to Resolution 1244, Kosovo is related to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, not to the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it is very important that we do not make a mistake here, that even if there is a possible separation of Serbia-Montenegro, it is not Serbia's fault, but that it is on Montenegro's initiative. As for the Constitutional Charter and its respect for MPs G17 plus, I will read Article 20. The Constitutional Charter, as the Constitutional Charter is currently relying on the Belgrade Agreement, and a signator, among other things, is the president of the G17 plus Miroljub Labus party. So, the basis for adopting the Constitutional Charter is that Mr. Miroljub Labus signed it. Article 20 speaks of the election of MPs for the Assembly of the State. Article 20 says -- Serbia-Montenegro's assembly is one-of-a-kind and makes it 126 MPs, 91 of whom are from Serbia and 35 from Montenegro. Representatives of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are elected from each Member State, in accordance with European and democratic standards, under the laws of the Member States. During the first two years following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, MPs are elected indirectly (which we have so far respected), relative representation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. In the first elections, MPs are elected from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro and the Federal Assembly. If parliamentary elections are held in the Member State during that period, the composition of its delegation in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly will be brought in proportion to the results of the elections. After this initial period, the MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are elected in the direct elections, and we have now reached that act. The term of office of Members shall be four years. It is not clear to me that MPs who support the government, which are an integral part of the government, can today state here for this speaker that they will not vote for the law, because it is absolutely contrary to the Constitutional Charter. So those who are normally in charge of respecting constitutionality and legality, MPs of the ruling coalition, are consciously going to vote the opposite, which I, frankly, do not understand. Unfortunately, I think the government was too late to pass this law, and that's enough, because we're going to get into one problem right now, which is that this law, which we expect to bring most votes and adopt, will immediately be the opposite of the Constitution. Namely, what it's about. As I read earlier, the direct elections will be held two years after the Constitutional Charter was adopted, and if we know that the Constitutional Charter was passed on 4 February 2003, this means that direct elections must be held by 4 February 2005 at the latest. If we know that the law itself states that the elections will be called no later than 45 days before they are held, and at the earliest 90 days, it absolutely means that the law will be contrary to the Constitutional Charter, because the last day is just today to call elections to be in accordance with the Constitutional Charter. We know that these elections will probably not be scheduled today, because today we will not pass the law, we may adopt it tomorrow or the day after. I don't believe the election will be called by the end of the year, which absolutely falls on the burden of this government, why we're getting into this problem. So the government had to prepare this law earlier and bring it to the Assembly. Why didn't she do it? The answer is very simple, the answer is in the government itself. There is no agreement on the adoption of this law. That's what most MPs were talking about, but I'll do it again. So we have a prime minister and his party who wants to pass this law and hold direct elections, and at the same time we have a Deputy Prime Minister who steps forward in public with the view that elections should not be held, indirectly or directly, but that the existing MPs should be extended for another year, which is contrary to the Constitutional Charter, and that is unacceptable for the DS. As far as the law itself is concerned, let me say a few more words, the law is quite good, there are some shortcomings that we have intervened with the amendments, and it is about the diaspora vote and about the active and passive voting rights for people in the diaspora. It is acceptable for us to have Serbia as one electoral unit, as it is very good that the Republic Law on the election of MPs has taken over the provision that national minorities, regardless of whether they cross the censorship, will be represented in this parliament of the state union. I think it's a very good provision, as I don't think it's a good provision that some MP, although it's only theoretical opportunities to do so, chooses by draw, I think it's really bad. I wouldn't want to be an MP anywhere without being chosen by a draw. I want, like most of you, probably all of you, to be chosen by the will of the people. So once again, the DS will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10971	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, at the beginning of the law presentation that is necessary, not only to Serbia as one of the so-called members. The state communities rather than the Serb people living in Serbia-Montenegro, I will remind all of you and those who were the participants of these darkest events in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, as well as those who came later with this assembly meeting, of an unsettling event that happened to me in April 2002. Namely, where Minister Zoran Lončar is sitting now, then Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus sat down, alongside late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and the item on the agenda was the adoption of so-called. The Belgrade Agreement, which was the predecessor of the Constitutional Charter, against which the SRS voted. At that session, I gave an assessment, not only of the Belgrade Agreement as a completely non-functional and highly harmful to the Serbian people in Serbia-Montenegro and as the predecessor of the Constitutional Charter, and because of this attitude, and because of what I will repeat to you today, with which most MPs from other political parties agree today, from the chairman, Natasa Micic, I received two warnings, excluded from the assembly session and 30 days away. What I said at the time, and what the DS, DSS representatives said today and what Serbian radicals pointed to. So, the Belgrade Agreement is nothing more than a polygon for smooth functioning and lobbying of the separatist regime in Montenegro. That he won't do any good. Yes, so-called The Constitutional Charter, which was then in preparation, represents the rise of a new Berlin Wall between two, once a single republic, or a single state. That the Serbian Radicals, as a matter of fact, are primarily nationalally responsible people, but above all as politicians who advocate that the SRJ then works uninterruptedly, have both against the adoption of the Belgrade Agreement and later the Constitutional Charter as such, which proved to be the product of some political-lawful, completely new and nowhere in the world of unapplicated form, and turned out to be right. I'm not saying that because the weather over the past two years has improved the functioning of so-called. On the contrary, we were unfortunately right at the time when we said that the separatist regime in Montenegro, headed by Milo Djukanovic, and those moves that were then led by SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica and in doing so by the current DOS regime, would bring so far many to wonder, where we are, and in the political and legal system as the SCG state union, both in the economic system and in each other, and that is the question we need to talk about today, first of all, in light of this bill. Why do I say that? Because this bill is purely technical, however, unedited until the end and that is why we Serbian radicals have submitted amendments, especially when it comes to the distribution of mandates under Dont's system. As you have heard from previous SRS MPs, this is one widely accepted method of the distribution of parliamentary mandates. And not only am I convinced as an SRS MP, but the citizens of Serbia know that, and especially those in the assembly today are pushing against holding direct elections, they won't even have to think about Dont's system, because they won't have anything to deploy. It will remain without any mandate and the fact is that the relationship between political forces, as has been changed since the fall of the DOS regime, will also be changed after the direct elections have been held for the SCG National Assembly. When it comes to a member who treats national minorities, their position in our electoral legislation and any objections they have, in the past two years and since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, and after the elections held last year, and after the adoption of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, to which we Serbian Radicals also had objections, the Minister himself knows this, there have been many discussions on the subject and the clearest picture of what it really means and how it is necessary to define the position of national minorities in the future distribution of their mandates and participations in political life, he gave at a round table on state television the deputy president of our party and the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. The debate lasted almost two hours. Participants were Jožef Kasa and Rasim Ljajic and when it was discussed whether it was a positive discrimination of the kind of discrimination, she did, Mr Nikolic explained it through several examples, and told Mr Kassi and Mr Ljajic - if they cannot independently provide room for themselves in the functioning of the political parties that represent them, they should see what the SRS is doing, and this has now proved to be from the local, over the province, to the republican level, to integrate themselves, to express myself, to political life, or the system of large parties that are clearly now, with the uncontinuous leadership on the political scene of the SRS, provided themselves with a political space for longer-term operation. What is evident is that many parties, who by cheating on the electoral body last December 28th, will have nothing to ask for in the market of Nikola Pasic in the new assembly of the SCG National Assembly. The people simply won't want them, and for them, the censorship of 5% is an insurmountable barrier, and they are also aware of this, primarily from the SDP of Montenegro, and those who represent the regime embodied in the image and work of Milo Djukanovic from the DPS, are aware of the fact that our people in Montenegro are becoming increasingly aware of the necessity of the survival of the state community as it is. The second question is why today, Serbs living in Serbia and Serbs living in Montenegro and other citizens belonging to other nationalities, we have something called the Constitutional Charter, which is in many of its segments, in 80% dysfunctional, causing many problems for the citizens and why all this happens when we know, as a state-owned people, from the Sretenjski Constitution to the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, through those communist constitutions, that we had a constitution as such, but the constitution existed. Someone wanted to play with us. First of all, the previous DOS regime and all those who sat in the first bench, in the place of the ruling furniture in April, when it happened that because of my grades, I would be away from the assembly session for 30 days. Someone has messed with it, and I would say that these are not only irresponsible politicians, but people who do not consider, above all, the moral and all other wishes of Serbs in Serbia-Montenegro and who have no sense of what we need here and our brothers living in another republic, that is, now in the republic of a member of a by-product, so-called. the state union of the SCG. How can we fix that? How can we help and encourage the Serbs in Montenegro after, in the true sense of the word, the debacle that took place a month ago, when a similar bill was discussed in that republic? By, above all, we Serbian radicals will insist that these direct elections be held in February, by putting the knowledge of both Serbs and other citizens, members of the national minorities in Serbia, as well as our brothers in Montenegro through the campaign, that we care as people who through the whole political engagement, from the establishment of the SRS want us to live in a solid community. To do so and to only aim at calling for such elections and strengthening our mutual relations, we also strengthen our historical-cultural, economic and other ties, because those who have gained courage, and they are over 30% on the last census in Montenegro, said they are members of one and the same Serbian people. And you can only imagine how much higher that number is because some people, because of the persecution they have by the Separatist regime, were not allowed to state in a questionnaire sent to them by the competent state authority. We, on our side, will do everything in our campaign to say that people who are against direct elections, people who are hypocritically in favour of the SCG community, actually people who go to the hands not only of the separatist brotherhood in Montenegro, but also of Javier Solana or some other galuliter, call it whatever you want, first of all to NATO forces in our southern province. Because, don't forget, Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia, or the SCG state union, and its survival are directly conditioned through the strengthening of our community, primarily through the responsibility of people who today represent the largest political parties in Serbia. That separatists from Montenegro and the so-called Foreign Minister Vlahovic, Milo Djukanovic and everyone else, and Ranko Krivokapic, have used all this time, that is, this vacuum space that has been given to them by the adoption of such a radical Constitutional Charter, is absolutely true because the Constitutional Charter has allowed them so-called. A rotating chair in the United Nations, because we do not have a single economic, or monetary market, because we do not strengthen cultural or historical ties and because of the fact that their personal interests and their accounts are in foreign banks and the blind execution of orders, and certainly not the interests of citizens living in Montenegro, let alone those living in Serbia. We are Serbian workers in the campaign, and so did Mr Tomislav Nikolic for the president of the Republic of Serbia and last year in a campaign for the republican elections, said that many will change the situation in the functioning of Serbia-Montenegro's state union after the elections. You know how she changed? It has changed by replacing some people who have absolutely identical aspirations and understandings, and that is how it has shown today's "expose" of Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, who, instead of the DOS coalition, has been elected to the post through a coalition led by Kostunica from Serbia and Milo Djukanovic from Montenegro, and that policy, his pledges and his aspirations can, of course, be under the same standard as Vlahovic in Montenegro. It may seem to you that I am giving you too much criticism for certain holders of then high state functions, and above all those of the Democratic Party, but believe me then I warned them, like every Serbian radical, and I am doing so today, not only them, but first of all this government, which has and how problems in functioning. I warned them to make themselves known and to understand that the union of Serbs from Serbia and the Serbs from Montenegro and all citizens living in Serbia and Montenegro is a priority for every politician, and that is something that should guide us and be in the right sense of the word state and national interest above every party. How can I explain this to one Bojan Pajtic, vice president of the Democratic Party, who is not here today, and I am telling you the illustrations are doing, when several months ago in a survey of one week's newspapers, he did not know the answer to three questions. One of these was how many MPs from the Republic of Serbia are in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. He tried to remember, he went to as many as 100, but he couldn't guess. He didn't know the answer to another question, who Condoleezza Rice is, and the third question, who is the Secretary General of the NATO Pact. How can we talk seriously to people who were the highest-ranking state officials, who didn't want to listen to it when we gave them clear warnings? Not only are we politicians but the people of the profession, historians, one recognized name in the world of Serbian science, such as Mrs Smilja Avramov, who has repeatedly warned that the Constitutional Charter cannot function for the benefit of citizens in this way, but since it exists we are aware of it, we must respect it and insist that in February we have direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro National Community Assembly. It's the only way we're going to show that we're responsible people, responsible politicians, and make sure that because of our consistent attitude and above all because not only do Serbian citizens recognize this sovereign relationship to the functioning of this now state community, they'll vote for us everywhere, from Subotica to Bujanovac, from eastern to western Serbia, and if it scares someone there's no reason for that, because even in a new council where we're going to be much more, Serbian radicals will make our cultural and historical relationship stronger. We are one people and we want to show it through our further participation, but I believe in a much larger number of MPs in the future assembly of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10973	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10974	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party, of course, believes it is necessary to pass this law, because it is a respect for the Constitutional Charter, in which Article 20 of Position 4 decidedly states that after the initial period, MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly must be elected in direct elections. There's certainly no dilemma. We can't think if we want to, whether we want to. We do not understand or dissonant tones within the Republic government when it is debated whether or not we will pass this law, whether we need the elections or not, because we have a Constitutional Charter that we have adopted and we have an obligation to adopt laws to conduct direct elections after two years of its adoption in Serbia-Montenegro and to hold elections. Of course, there are problems, of course, that there are different views in both Serbia and Montenegro, but of course at this point we all have to recognise that this is the only way for what we all stand for, which is what each of us has a bunch of words that he wants and that's exactly what his political party and political option is working on, which is to enter Europe. Joining Europe isn't easy at all, and it's very thorny. The problems we're facing are really so difficult and so great that they're not looking for another problem. We have a problem with The Hague that has burdened us for years, which has burdened us today and will also burden Serbia, Montenegro and the Serbia-Montenegro community in the future. We have, on the other hand, problems with independence, the desire for independence in both Serbia and Montenegro and, unfortunately, they are also very strong, they should be defeated. There should be arguments that will be made to each of us individually, but also to all of us together to point to the fact that Europe does not want to accept such different views, that we must be together in Europe. Maybe different patterns, maybe in some specific ways, each of us individually, I mean two members of the state community, but all together. We must be aware that at this time Europe, and those we in Europe are talking to, or who at this time in Europe are taking care of us, are not directly committed to either of us, or to another Member State, and therefore we also have to show a little more tolerance for those of us sitting here in the Republic Parliament, for all the positions of our electoral body in Serbia, but also for the views of the electoral body and of the citizens of Montenegro, because I hope that it will be much easier for all of us if we try to listen to what those of whom we are objectively depending at this point, but also those we want to join. I would remind you that the latest statement by the European Union High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, Kristina Galjak, is that it is up to Serbia-Montenegro to reach an agreement on calling elections and how they are maintained. Also last week's conclusion by the Council of Europe that both Member States should hold elections for parliament in accordance with the Constitutional Charter. I am glad that Serbia with the bill of this law has respected what the Constitutional Charter is looking for. I am glad that Serbia will have the strength to organise direct elections, but I also hope that there will be a serious negotiating capacity in Serbia to agree and talks with Montenegro to enter into and come to an agreement. The compromise is necessary to each of us. We are witnesses in the past, but also in the one we live in today, the fact that we have a complete uncertainty of everything that surrounds us. From year to year, our country is getting smaller and our problems are getting bigger. We have Kosovo, a problem that we must face in 2005 and a problem that we will surely be able to solve much easier if we conduct direct elections and if we have as much stable the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. No one at any time can interfere with that, today when I repeat it again, individually, but we're all trying to assess whether we need the election or not. Kosovo cannot be our theme only when events happen that none of us want. Kosovo must be a topic every day for each of us, and in order for this topic to be respected in the right way, we need to understand that in these elections we have to go out. We've got other problems. The question of whether there will be a referendum in Montenegro or not is a question burdening both Serbia and Serbian citizens. We must not ignore and forget the issue of Vojvodina, the serious issue that needs to be addressed by the next constitution, the issue of autonomy, which is the constitutional right of the citizens of Vojvodina and something that no one disputes, but, objectively, we all need to understand that there are problems. Problems arise and we will solve them easier if we go to elections and have a stable Serbia-Montenegro community. So again I have to confirm, the DS's position is that we want to go to elections, that the elections have to be, but also that each of us has the responsibility to make these choices and succeed. I'd like the Republic government to understand that, so we don't have any dissonant tones from the Republic Government. The Constitutional Charter is an obligation, and each of us has committed to respecting the country's positive regulations. So I think it's very bad that, on the one hand, we have a bill proposed by the Republic Government that we're going to vote for here, I guess, tomorrow or the day after. On the other hand, we have a vice-president of the same government, Labus, who believes elections should not occur and whose actual programme of the party advocates a completely different concept of Serbia's policy but also of Serbia-Montenegro's policies. It is not good, it is not smart, it is not something that neither Serbia nor Serbia-Montenegro needs at the moment. I've listed the problems. You're all aware of them. They're not going anywhere from us. We're the ones who have to solve them. The DS stands for the functional state community. You all know what that means. You all know how hard this is to achieve. The functional state community is the obligation of all of us. That is why I urge once again that we take full responsibility to approach the vote on this law, but after that, much more responsibility is to join the realisation and organisation of elections for the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I hope that we will not do something to ensure that this law does not live, that these elections do not get what they need and that they do not have the result that we all want from these choices, which is an attempt to strengthen the community of Serbia-Montenegro. As hard as it is, it's an obligation for each and every one of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10975	Thank you. The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have seen that the debate so far is mostly not being used by MPs to talk a lot about the law, because technically it is all known here, which is a law similar to the Law on selecting MPs in the Republic of Serbia. More talk is about the political background and the commitment we made by adopting a Constitutional Charter that regulates relations in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. All our misfortunes and divisions in the Serbian people began, and should be reminded, in about half of the 19th century, when a certain philosopher and travel writer Benjamin Kalaj was given an assignment from the Austrian court to come up with something to share by then a unique Serbian national being. As a smart and wise man, it was very effective and simply designed to divide Serbs into Serbs and Serbs. There is no nation in the world that is divided on this basis, but it has had so much effect that for centuries and a half has passed through Serbs, and today a conversation about such a single law, I would say, was the direct consequence of this division that was initiated only to make it easier for Austria to activate, or attach Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878. It is simply the greatest number of Serbs that led to the delusion of whether belonging to the nation is a spiritual or geographical space. It certainly is a spiritual space, and most of you know that a large number of Serbs live in America, as well as in other countries of the world, which are by no means smaller Serbs than we are here, although geographically they do not belong to Serbia. However, one number of our associates fell for Benjamin Kalaj to push us and divide us into having a situation like this in Republika Srpska and Montenegro today, as well as in other parts where Serbs lived or lived. The SRS sees this law primarily as an attempt by the Republic Assembly and all MPs to stop disintegration processes in these areas. If we can do it with this law, though we doubt it, we'll be overjoyed. This is an attempt to do everything in our power to preserve the state union in any form, or any union with Montenegro, because in most cases it is the same people on both sides of the non-existent border and any disunity or destruction of the state community would be devastating for those in Montenegro, and for us as well. Of course, we are not sure whether we will be able to preserve the state union by passing such a law, because that depends on the MPs in the Montenegrin Parliament, whether they will adopt a similar law and whether we will be able to hold elections in March, as the Constitutional Charter predicts. I say, it is important that this assembly adopt such a law so that what the Republic of Serbia is asking can be fulfilled. Now no one even mentions that in 1929, then the Grand Podgorica Assembly made a unanimous decision on the accession of Montenegro to Serbia's territory. I stress accession, not unification with Serbia. It is obviously no longer important to anyone, because certain centres that are very powerful and rule the whole world are setting up governments according to their means, so it is enough to find some compromised politician and make him an important factor in that country and that they are later running the politics of that country or the Republic. We are here in the most tragic way to witness how this is happening and how one same people starts with artificial divisions to turn into two peoples, and then later and three, and then how it reflects on the division of geographical space, and we get from one country a lot of countries that are powerless to manage themselves. I said, technically, there was a little talk about the law. We have no fundamental objection to this, except for what's already been mentioned, and that's a vote abroad. We expect that with this attempt, if we manage to hold the elections, we will stand in the way of these disintegration processes. Given that history has so far shown two of the most important characteristics, which is the cyclicity and constraint between periods, we expect that if we stand in the way of these processes, we will begin to re-enter the process of unification and that we will welcome again, perhaps our children, if we do not welcome, that some new sub-gorical assembly will unanimously declare Serbia's accession, and so we expect from the Republika Srpska Assembly or some other state community, as it exists there. This is what are the two most important qualities of history that have been shown throughout mankind's lifetime. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10977	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before us is an important law, the remark is that he is late. The Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is also being insulted because there will be no time from its adoption until the election date, as provided for by the Constitutional Charter, to leave sufficient time for the president of the state union to prepare the entire election procedure. The DS, respecting the Constitutional Charter, respecting the political decision and policy of the will of this parliament and parliament of Montenegro, will vote in favour of a law on the election of MPs for the parliament of the state union, because we believe that this is also a demonstration of the desire to preserve a community both Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and Montenegro will find their interest in the path to Europe. Even before the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, the DS advocated the state union and such a formal legal framework that gives Serbia-Montenegro the opportunity to bring their interests into line, find a common goal, and this goal has been declared precisely through the drive for Serbia-Montenegro to join the European Union, accepting its standards and values for which the Member States of the European Union are also gathered. The Constitutional Charter is a very important document, first of all, because it guarantees the integrity of the Serbian Member State, and the preamble of the Constitutional Charter guarantees that Serbia, with Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, is in its composition, a factor that creates the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. With the preamble adopted and the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its Implementation, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has been admitted to the Council of Europe and thus the politically accepted definition of the state union and Serbia as Member States in its composition. That's very important to us. Kosovo is guaranteed as part of Serbia within the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and only in case Serbia, as a Member State, does not blame the collapse of the state community within a period shorter than three years of the day of adoption of the Constitutional Charter, the guarantee remains by the international community. That is why it is very politically responsible, by Serbia and the parties that make up this parliament and which define the will of citizens, to respect the Constitutional Charter as a whole and to adopt a law on the direct election of MPs for the state union parliament. The law itself is generally acceptable, but some of its solutions are not in line with the Constitutional Charter. For example, Article 4 of the electoral right for MPs in the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, where it is said that the right to elect MPs and to be elected for MPs has every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has the right to elect MPs and to be elected a MP in the Republic of Serbia. This is contrary to Article 7. The Constitutional Charter, which states that citizens of Member States have all rights, citizens from one Member State in another Member State, except for the electoral right. This is contrary to a member who predicts the end of the term of office of a state union MP, which is when an MP in a state union parliament changes his residence and when his residence on Serbia's territory is shut down. These two provisions are in collegiate, as the issue of residence is not always consistent, i.e. the corresponding citizenship of a Member State. I must remind you that the citizenship of the state union is derived from the citizenship of a Member State. Therefore, the primary and dominant citizenship of a Member State is. Only those with original citizenship in Serbia, according to the Constitutional Charter, would have an active and passive electoral right. This law defines in a different way the electoral right, which is according to the citizens' residence in the territory of the Member State of Serbia. The law on the direct election of MPs for the state union says a similar application will be made to the Law on the election of MPs for the republican parliament. We had elections in such a way that Serbian citizens living outside Serbia had the right to vote for Serbia's parliament, and now the question is whether Serbian citizens who have a residence outside Serbia and who have Serbian citizenship will have the opportunity to choose beyond Serbia's borders at the moment the elections are held. Of course, this law, such vague solutions and unspeakable attitudes, raises many problems. The basic problem will be when making up the electoral list. It is not clear on what criteria the electoral list will be drawn up, whether the electoral list will include citizens living outside Serbia's territory at the time of the elections. What will the election list look like, will those who voted in polling stations outside Serbia's territory, abroad, diaspora, have the right to vote for parliamentarians of the state union? If they do, then a question will be raised which are citizens of Serbia who have the right to vote for MPs in the state union parliament. Will it be only those who have the right to reside or will it be all those who have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia as Member States? This issue is not defined by this law and will open up new problems, which could have such consequences that the legitimacy of the future elections will be compromised. What makes this law unclear and contrary to the Constitution of the state union is that it imposes obligations on the president of the state union, so this republican law says that the president of the state union will have an obligation to call elections for the parliament of the state union within a certain period and under certain conditions. The obligations of the President of the State Community are prescribed by the laws of the state community and cannot be imposed by a Member State individually without the same law in another Member State of the state community. That is why I believe that the Government here, as a proposing, has exceeded the powers resulting from the logic of the legal order governing relations between the Member States and the state community. Otherwise, politically speaking, elections for the state community are directly important for our parliament and for all citizens of Serbia, especially because this government does not need the legitimacy to manage public affairs, because it lost it in all the elections held from December last year to today. The result of future elections for the state union parliament will demonstrate the true will of citizens and will show relations in the strength of individual political parties and in a political will that will give citizens confidence to individual parties to lead both Serbia and the state union in the future. Of course, a dispute has been opened recently on how MPs are elected to both Member States. Some advocate extending the mandate to current MPs in the state union parliament, while individual political parties in Montenegro are pushing for a further indirect election of MPs for the state union parliament. The DS stands for direct elections. It is ready for those elections, because we want to show how and how much trust we enjoy among Serbian citizens. We expect that in the parliament of the state union, following the next parliamentary elections, we will be represented in a larger number in a delegation made up of Serbian citizens in the state union parliament. So, DS expects election success. I expect the parties that make up the ruling majority in this parliament, at least formally, and which support the government, also to call on their electoral body, their voters to come out and vote for the state union parliament. However, there is already a very clear gap between individual parties, those who are fighting for Serbia to be an independent state and to break up the state union, regardless of the existence of the Constitutional Charter and the expressed political will in this parliament during the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation. This speaks of the inconsistencies of the political group, of all the opposites of the political group that supports the current government in Serbia. That is why I expect and believe that the greatest political responsibility at the prime minister and the current government is to carry out as many voters as possible and to ensure the greatest legitimacy of the future parliament of the state community, so that the international community has as much respect for Serbia-Montenegro's representatives in international and political affairs and relations. While there is inconsistencies in some solutions to this bill, the DS will vote in favour of this law as a whole, but we will not agree, for example, with the solutions offered to determine by drawing and fortunately which political party, in the case of an equal index in the number of mandates, will be given the right to participate and participate in the parliament of the state union. We believe that happiness and lots, as a way of resolving justice in a legal state, are not possible and not acceptable. It is impossible for someone less fortunate to not participate in the government despite the support the citizens gave him in the elections. So, we expect the government to use all its political power and position, take responsibility for calling elections in a direct way for the parliament of the state union, in which the DS will absolutely participate and expect a good result. And we expect that the government will not reternize in its position. We also expect that the government and all parties of the ruling majority who support the Serbian government will do everything possible to get as many citizens out of these elections as possible, so that they do not drag citizens into abstinence by their stand not to recognise or accept the state union. First of all, I think of the G17 Plus party, which has played an active role in Serbia's isolation policy in relations with Montenegro for a year and a half. And in the assessment of the government programme given by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica during the exhibition in this House, I was talking about the inconsistencies of political groups that made up the then ruling majority, as it is precisely the issue of preserving and improving relations in the state community that are looking at a huge gap within the political group. You can see that in a way of funding. The almost adopted budget for next year showed the government's relationship, i.e. those parties that control financial flows in Serbia right towards the state union, primarily towards its institutions. For the court of the state union, almost no money has been allocated. So this government is only a demagogue story that recognises and respects the state union, but that court of the state does not exist yet. The lack of courts, as instruments that control and protect citizens' rights in relations and rights at the level of the state community, speaks of the fundamental unwillingness to respect the state community. The inability or unwillingness to establish a plan to bring economic relations between the two Member States into line with the government's full passivity with regard to the alignment of the two Member States' economic system also says that the government is not ready to improve the relationship between Member States. That's what the international community noticed. That is why calls for the international community and addressing the current government and its prime minister on the issue of the preservation of the state union as the most favourable and acceptable framework for achieving the interests of both Serbia-Montenegro in order to join the EU countries. The DS remains consistent with the state community as a whole, respecting the political will of another Member State to determine how and methods for electing MPs to the parliament of the state union, but we will also remain a consistent critic against those who demagoguely advocate the application of the Constitutional Charter, but are too late to pass and propose laws for its achievement, and are also late or deny the means to establish institutions that should guarantee the functioning of the state community and the protection of human rights at the level of the state community.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10979	The word has the People's MP Miljko Četrovic, and let the People's MP Bajram Omeragic be prepared, which will be available for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10980	Dear People's MPs, there have already been some debates on why this law did not come early to the agenda of the National Assembly, given the deadlines of the Constitutional Charter and mentioning February 5th, the deadline for these elections to be completed and for the new assembly of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly to take over the leadership of the state union, the election of a new Council of Ministers. It seems that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had previously had no agreement on the proposal for this law, namely whether this law should be proposed to the National Assembly for adoption, which we have received today as a confirmation from a parliamentary group that makes up the parliamentary majority, makes up one part of the Serbian government, and unfortunately forms part of the Council of Ministers of the State. Such a pragmatic parliamentary group was pragmatic in the near past, so the expert team became a party ahead of the December parliamentary elections. But looking at the reality that they are also aware of, and with the awareness of Serbian citizens, or voters that they have recognised that deception in that expert group and that parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament and in the part of the government, so knowing that the censorship of 5% is too high a threshold for them, it simply wants not to pass this law today, i.e. it is not to be passed and elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are held. As a national MP in front of the SRS, and according to the law, I was taught in 1968, 1969, by the late professor Lukic, what is a state, and what is a people, and that the state is a fact of fiction, and in fact the state is a nation, and that the national representatives represent a state through representative bodies, through the most recent constitutional practice through the congregations and through governments that are directly and indirectly chosen by the congregations. The question now arises, if we here claim and declare that the Constitutional Charter, no matter what it is, which was concluded almost two years ago, and we know exactly who signed it, under whose pressure, Solana, who, even now, had to order Kostunica to get the consent of Solana to come to the agenda today, so that it can be discussed here. I am terrified of such words that Marovic, as president of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and if this law is passed, will not call elections for MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. So what's he the president of? Is he the president of the state union, will he still be able to call the president of the state union, will the meetings of the Council of Ministers continue to be held on the phone? One part, and that part of the Montenegrin Council of Ministers at Saint Stefan, and the other part in Belgrade, and we know all the problems that are pressing the state of Serbia, and I will not discuss those in Montenegro, that is the problem of the citizens of Montenegro. A logical trail of things has been continued here today and no wonder of the G17 parliamentary group why it came out against this law this way, and everything related to direct events related to the Serbia-Montenegro Army and the attempt to break up Serbia-Montenegro's military and what will follow, as announced as a key event in 2005, when it comes to the fate of Serbia, the Serbian people, the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. The final status is reportedly to be defined in 2005, despite the resolution brought here by all MPs of the National Assembly, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and the interests of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, these were only phrases and deceptions from certain MPs and attempts to deceive citizens of Serbia and the Serb people. Since there have been some objections to the very text of the law, I will also mention remarks or amendments related to the vote abroad. The other day, as the National Assembly, we adopted the Law on Citizenship, and given all the problems that occurred during the elections or the vote to elect the president of Serbia in June, the Minister of State Administration and local self-government Mr Loncar is well aware that these elections were organised abroad and what was the effect and possibility of organising these elections. At the same time, I am president of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia and these issues, therefore, the status of Serbs outside Serbia, and especially in the diaspora, the unresolved issue of citizenship, I hope that it will be resolved, but for all of it it will take a reasonable time, with the great involvement of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, especially the MUP, if it is competent to regulate it. So a legitimate question arises whether the citizens' vote outside Serbia's borders will have the same fate as the vote to elect Serbia's president in June. Whether it will have five or six thousand voters, and each vote will cost citizens of Serbia 200 to 300 euros and I believe that unless conditions are provided that most want to become citizens of the Serbian state, when conditions are provided for all these citizens to be signed abroad, to make real voter lists and not put in an unequal position most of our citizens with citizenship, who are unable to vote. And it certainly takes not a month and a half, but a long time, and therefore this provision on allowing foreign voting is a fact-finding position for the largest number of voters or citizens, and if it is said that there are two, three or four million, but the right situation will be known when everyone or those who want to be, when they apply for entry into the book of citizens of the Serbian state, or to get that status. It has been said here and about Dont's system and there's no reason why he's changing now in relation to that system that's in the Law on selecting MPs, as well as the provision of positive discrimination for minorities. Those who understand their strength are aware of their infirmities are probably against this law. The SRS is from its establishment to today, and in the future, it will be that only through the elections it wants to come to power, and it will do so this time. Therefore, those who have had the situation or the opportunity to come to power on a temporary basis and are being held in power, will not be able to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10981	The word has been made by MP Bajram Omeragic, not there. The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, not there. The word is by MP Meho Omerovic, not there. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, not there. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the Minister want the word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Since this amendment was adopted by the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10982	You've speeded up a lot, Mr. President, there's no need to rush.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10983	I'm just being efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10984	There is no need to rush, given that this amendment wants to erase what you have stated in Article 17(2), which is that the political parties of national minorities and coalitions of national minorities participate in the distribution of parliamentary mandates and when they received less than 5% of the votes cast by the total number of voters who voted. I read this on purpose, because in the principle debate, it was wrongly interpreted what is stated both in this law and in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The principle of positive discrimination must be abandoned. The fact that you are called in reasoning and in views, or the Government's view on this amendment, that it is unacceptable and that it should be applied literally to that so-called “. ” A small charter, as it was called out of grace by those who made the Constitutional Charter, essentially means nothing. You yourself know how many problems there have been in the distribution of these mandates when the basic principle is violated, which is the principle of 5% censorship. Census is 5% and it should apply to all political parties. I need to draw your attention to the way you do your own ghettoization, and why? Because membership to a national minority in a political sense relates only to membership of a particular political party, which the RIK should say is an authentic representative of the rights of members of national minorities. When you compare these things, you see that it's contrary to basic human rights postulates. In this way, you have disaved all members of the national minorities that lie across the DSS, the SRS, the G17 plus, the SPS, the SPS, New Serbia and all other political parties. We are here this year for the second time warning you that what you are doing and putting into the legal norm is not good, because the basic principle of electoral law is being violated, and that is certainly, Minister, the same value of each vote. So, in addition to having the right to choose and to be elected, an integral part of his electoral right is that his vote is also worth the vote of every other voter on a particular territory within a country. This way, we come up with an unequal value of one vote. What you're trying to do, and positive, and negative, and any other discrimination, etc. Tie that cat to the tail. I must tell you that in this way you do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution does not know of the possibility of a different vote being valued in the Republic. I suppose after the local elections, you learned some lesson that you should not blindly observe and listen to requests from any side of the world that they are coming and that you are thus destroying cohesion in existing political parties that have worked hard to build a high degree, even internal, political unity between citizens who are members of that political party without the need to share. In this way you have practically disabled members of political parties who are members of a national minority, because you favour some who allegedly can prove that authentic representatives are a particular national minority. As you can see, the fact that you may have some good wishes, in practice, can turn into your opposite. We warned you last time, as we warned you about organising elections abroad, so it became a tourist trip, a touristic journey, so we draw your attention to this lack, because this is how the government tramples human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-21-0.u10985	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word wants MP Zoran Cirkovic, then we'll do it in the morning, after 18.00 hours are up. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
