ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2840	It is true, I have submitted an amendment to Article 119. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. Article 119 says, "The insurance company's funds are deposited and invested in the Republic." Paragraph 2 states: "The assets of the 1st member of the insurance company can be deposited and invested abroad up to 20% of the basic capital, with the previous consent of the National Bank of Serbia." I believe that the funds of certain insurance companies can be deposited and invested only in the Republic of Serbia, for two reasons. First, there is such a restriction in other countries, and I see no reason why in our country the means of insurance, especially those investment funds that can only increase the insurance funds, would not be invested in the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, let me remind you, we have extremely negative experiences with the National Bank, with an affair about depositing foreign reserves to individual foreign banks. The finance minister (of course not now), once the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, initially provided for an increase in the minimum that can be deposited in foreign banks. You remember the Euroaxis affair of the National Savings Bank and later the affair that was created around electricity imports. When it increased the amount of money deposited in foreign banks, it then chose a third-rate bank to deposit those funds with the third-rate EuroAxis Bank, which is truly completely unknown in the banking world. It is only known for its standing behind organisations, businesses, businesses, electricity imports. This affair is completely clear, cleared on the Committee of Surveys that he's been investigating and I don't want to talk about it anymore. As a result, my concern is that someone who in one way or another will show up through skilled financial malfeasance will be deposited into suspicious accounts, in those jobs that do not bring profit and do not increase the capital of insurance companies. Therefore, because of the comparative legislation, because of the rules in force in other countries, which protect the capital of their funds, I suggest that Article 119(2) deletes and that the funds of our insurance companies are invested only in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2841	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2842	Article 134 refers to the obligation to draw up a financial report and an annual report on the business of the insurance company. It predicts that the final framework is prescribed by the National Bank, as well as the forms of financial reports, their content, their form. I asked for this member to be changed and it is now said: "The way to assess the balance positions, assets, obligations and claims, the way of accounting and showing income, expenditure and the results of the business and how the consolidated accounting of the insurance company is drawn up closer to the policy of the minister. The methods of risk management are set closer by the minister." I thought this solution was in line with that solution we offered in the amendment of Article 18. I still think it's illegal for the National Bank to be the one to oversee the insurance organisations. That is exactly what I am asking for to change this member and that these registers, i.e. financial reports, be run by the Ministry, not the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2843	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruždić-Trifunović proposed that 17 new members (142a, 142b, 142v, 142g, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142z, 142i, 142j, 142j, 142k, 142l, 142l, 142l, 142m, 142m, 142n and 142j) be added to the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Ruzdic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2844	Since I asked for a change in Article 18 – the introduction of a surveillance agency for insurance companies, I suggested that a new title – Independence and independence of the agency and 17 new members be introduced after Article 142. With this change, I have tried to show the organisation of the insurance company supervisory agency, which I have proposed in Article 18, so I have proposed to introduce to the members 142 of the "a", the independence and independence of the Agency, the Agency's bodies, the composition and selection of the Agency's advice, the conditions for the appointment of the president and members of the Agency's agency, the resolution of the president and members of the Agency's board, the competence of the Agency's council, the decision of the Agency's council, the correspondence session of the Agency's council, the director of the Agency, the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Agency's director, the principle of incompatibility, the protection of confidential data, the Agency's work, the fees for the work of the Agency, the amount and the way of payment of funds and, as the last member of 142j, the funds provided in the Agency's budget. Of course, I must now underline that I have otherwise proposed to this agency because I believe that the central bank, in this case, is the National Bank of Serbia, the last institution to be entrusted with supervision of insurance companies, because this solution essentially distances us from European practice and returns us to a time of centralized economy. I just want to remind ourselves that we've concluded that there are three ways to monitor, that integrated surveillance is also looking for a special body at the government, and that this is the fourth way that... I'm sorry the minister isn't present, but he still hasn't given us an answer to the question of which is the fourth state to have this newly introduced fourth way. Is it possible that this power is bringing us back to Latin America and Kazakhstan? Therefore, I think it is necessary for the minister to reconsider, adopt our initial amendment to Article 118 and accept that the supervision is carried out by the insurance company control agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2845	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2846	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with this amendment, Ms. Leile Ruzdic, we round up a whole set of amendments that we have submitted in order to convince the ruling majority or to convince, possibly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance to accept the surveillance system as we consider optimal in our circumstances. So now I'm just going to recapture what we've been saying about the team. Therefore, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic believes that the best surveillance system is one that has been applied in other countries like ours, above all, in countries in transition, which has been successful in these countries; it is exactly the control system where the agency, the directorate, would be completely irrelevant to what they will be called that body, and this body should be independent and independent in the framework given by law, i.e. in the conduct of the affairs established by law. Our amendments complete the entire system that would work if you accepted a solution like this. Therefore, it would be an agency chosen by the Government, that agency would have its statute, the statute would establish a way of doing business, the authorities would be established, and most importantly, the rights and obligations of the persons representing the managing authorities in that agency would be established. We believe that this is definitely the best system, not only because it is adequately applied in similar situations in which our country is located, but also because it gives a good starting basis to cross, one day when the financial market in our country becomes more developed, to a system of integrated supervision, that is to say, one such independent regulatory body controls all banking transactions and insurance operations. That's where we both agree and the Ministry of Finance and it's undeniable that it's our future. Our proposal is to step into that future immediately, applying this solution now, not to change this law again after a while and re-expose ourselves to the cost of time and money, so that we can rebuild one of these bodies. In our discussion, we have made remarks concerning the incompatibility of such a solution with internal legislation. Namely, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia (recently adopted by Parliament) does not provide for such control operations as are now being put into the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia under this law. Namely, that law and art. 4, 5, 6 and 54 have established a work cycle, i.e. the responsibilities of the National Bank of Serbia and in particular the members of which the National Bank of Serbia is controlling. In addition, we have recently adopted the Ministry Act here where it is clear that the tasks of the state administration relating to the supervision of insurance companies are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, so we also dispute the legality, so to speak, of this proposal, that is to say, the consistency of this proposal with other positive regulations. But it is the right of the executive government and the ruling majority to create politics in all areas, even in this area, as it considers best, but we have done our utmost to point to what we consider to be wrong during yesterday and today, and Friday in the debate in principle, and to simply offer a solution that we think is better. Finally, there is really a question that has been mentioned by counterpart Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, a solution offered to us, which will be applied in Serbia, where this solution is still being applied, except in Latin America, Kazakhstan, and we don't really know whether there is a country that applies such solutions anymore. It is certain that we should not deal with Latin America and Kazakhstan, it is certain that we would better benefit from the solution that exists in Finland, Croatia, Hungary, Slovenia or perhaps the solution of some other species as it exists in Germany, Russia, France, etc., but we really do not understand why this solution is so far out of place where we live and from the time in which we are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2847	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović to Article 143. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2848	Article 143 refers to rules for the enforcement of the law and its implementation being passed by the National Bank of Serbia. The proposal of my amendment is to delete this member. I asked for his erasure, of course, for harmonising with these solutions in Article 18. The bill would then frame it and end the full story of the agency. However, I need to say one more time, although it is clear to me that I do not have any of this, because Mr. Minister is not present, that our solution to the Agency's introduction, the special body of the Ministry, or Government, is in line with European Union regulations. Moreover, in the European Union, supervision of the work of business banks is not entrusted to the central bank, but to an independent body. Of course, that independent body can be tied to a central bank, so the governor can be a member or head of the agency, can be used by administration that works and the central bank, I mean its infrastructure, agency members can be board members, but it's a special body. Therefore, the European Union does not know this solution at all. My question is again, will we enter Europe with solutions that are not in line with the European Union's solutions?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2849	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Miloje Savic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment with a legal-technical editorial proposed by the Proposer's representative, which reads as follows: in point 3) after the words "actual" are added to the words "or other relevant". The applicants agreed with that legal and technical regulation. Since the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment with the legal and technical regulation has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Igor Mirovic submitted the amendment to Article 151. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2850	Yesterday's debate showed at least three things. First, the insurance law only partially refers to the need to regulate the area of insurance in our country and to prescribe new more serious rules that will regulate the work of insurance houses and that will regulate not only the area of supervision of insurance houses, but everything else that follows their work from the establishment, including, of course, the privatisation process of insurance houses. Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said, when it comes to supervision of insurance houses, that it is important and who is monitoring it, given that in his opinion it belongs to the National Bank; we hope that the National Bank will not oversee the insurance houses, because it is by nature not her business. I believe the majority will adopt an amendment to the SRS that speaks of the supervision of the Ministry of Finance over the work of insurance houses. The minister, therefore, said that it was important to monitor and discuss the need for professional supervision. Article 151 does not show this as the conditions necessary for the work of an insurance inspector are, the conditions which speak of their expertise are brought to the lowest possible level, so (i) for trainees who seek work in business banks sometimes require greater professional preparation than for insurance inspectors provided for by the insurance law. That's why I suggested adding a new point 4 point in Article 151 to Article 2, which is, "There is experience," so I'm talking about insurance inspectors, "in insurance business for at least three years". In fact, I want to provide what the minister publicly advocates and what the bill does not say. He publicly advocates many other things that are not written in the bill and thus deceives the MPs of the National Assembly. However, we have surprised you with this professional, thorough and detailed preparation of the amendments to the Insurance Bill, and we have surprised you by the fact that we have studied this law really well, and that is not an accident. This is the first serious, detailed, comprehensive and significant economic law. Many do not know that insurance is a very important branch of the country's economy. Many do not know that insurance funds are in one way or another involved in many investments in this country, and many may not therefore understand the importance of the segments we are talking about in this debate, which is supervision of the work of insurance houses and expertise in terms of supervision, but of course it is also the issue of privatising insurance houses, the issue of protecting state capital in them. Of course, at the beginning, the question of the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance as an additional motive in terms of the protection of property and the overall value of insurance houses etc. So, if we really want professional supervision, I plead that you adopt my amendment to Article 151 and that we really ensure that insurance inspectors are professional, that, in accordance with the amendment to Article 18, they are in the special administration of the Ministry of Finance. That is, I said, a European solution, which provides a sufficient level of expertise and which is, after all, the cheapest, because we have the Ministry, we have technical conditions for the work of the administration, we have existing personnel working there; personnel from the Federal Ministry or the Finance Secretariat can be transferred to the Republic Ministry. This whole professional and well-organised and well-designed supervision, along with this new provision that strengthens and requires additional conditions of expertise, can be effectively achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2851	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2852	As a condition for establishing a working relationship and for doing certain jobs, work experience is rarely set up, but when it comes to jobs, so-called jobs. inspection surveillance, then work experience is something that's mandatory. The promoter, who praised this solution and this bill and, among other things, found it appropriate to justify the state of supervision from the Ministry of the National Bank of Serbia by claiming that there are trained, trained, trained and as a stuck rifle ready staff who are eager to start security control. Here, you see, in the basic text of Article 151, there is a lack of work experience provision, and that is necessary when it comes to inspection tasks. Why is it necessary for the inspector to have a working experience? Well, so things don't happen to us for the past three years. You see, at the end of the session yesterday, a government official came out and said, when he broke into the National Bank, he found some money. If a man with a working experience had done it, he wouldn't have put his socks on and entered the bank, he wouldn't have done it with long pipes. Who can believe the information that brings up the person who fell in and won the National Bank; whether it was 300, a billion or two billion, and how do we know that? The one with the guns comes in... You know, the difference between a big thief and a little thief is just how far it's been in the register. In principle, there's no difference. Penalty is a felony. A man with a working experience would never allow it. A man with a working experience matures at work, so he's a bit of an intern, so he's a bit of an expert associate, so he's trained for independent jobs. Inspective jobs are by their own nature, and these jobs can only be done by qualified persons who know the rules and have a basic experience of saying "good afternoon" when they come into control, not by pulling guns or rifles. When it comes from the street to an institution, it comes completely normal and it's expected to take out a gun or a gun. When you go with the badge of the state authority, the representative of the government, when you enter officially, then a man must first introduce himself, and that is achieved by working experience. Our problem for these three years was, among other things, that the representatives of the government were people without experience, experts who came from some corner, some street, declared themselves experts. They hope that within three years, he has matured the expertise in the National Bank of Serbia, that they no longer have to wear those black socks, or to pull long guns or rifles, to scare and to represent democracy. That is why it is necessary to accept this amendment, that we finally and by law guarantee that insurance operations, or insurance inspections, will work for people who first know how to respect the state, respect their jobs and respect those they need to control. It is only possible if there is this elemental experience, at least three years old, as proposed by this amendment of ours. Don't let the situation that happened to us with the judiciary, that with a modest working experience with Dad in the farming community or in the law office or with the dad who's a professor of law, so when the first day comes, as interns, then they say - this court is no good, there's no espresso coffee here. Keep an eye out, the state is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2853	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 152, the amendment was proposed by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Igor Mirovic proposed amendments to Articles 182, 187-201, 204, 209-214, 216, 217, 221, 222, 225, 226, 228, 229, 231-233, 237, 241 and 244. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment was proposed by MP Dragan Vuksanovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dobrica Jankovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 228 and 228. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 228 of the amendment, MP Igor Mirovic proposed. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2854	If a change of resolution is accepted in Article 18, which without any basis introduces the National Bank in the process of supervision of insurance companies, then Article 228 of the proposed law will be deleted, as Article 228 speaks of employees in the Ministry of Finance to be taken over by the National Bank of Serbia, as the future institution for supervision of the work of insurance. We hope she's not going to be that supervisory institution, because there's no such thing in the world. We need to determine the true essence of this law. The essence of the law must be a detailed regulation of the relationship in the area of insurance. And, once again, I call on you to consider three important points in this law – the question of the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, second, the issue of supervision, third, the issue of privatization of insurance houses – and to analyse solutions in the law relating to this matter in your MPs clubs accept those amendments that are indeed on the trail of solutions that exist in developed countries. It is truly strange that the finance minister, who comes from that parliamentary group, who publicly advocates European solutions, offers a law that is not European. I don't think the MPs will accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2855	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 234 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is by MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2856	A few new data, so you don't get bored: in 2000 more than 80 million life insurance contracts were concluded in Germany. The premium was certainly great, but what is most important to you – these contracts created an investment fund worth (in 2000) a thousand billion German marks. Of course, these are the figures we can only think about, dream about, but talk about the importance of life insurance and nonlife insurance. They are talking about the potential of our insurance market and in this context deny the finance minister's intention to reduce the value of domestic insurance houses by separating life insurance and non-life insurance, to devalue them and to bring them to the market as such in the announced privatisation process. Another example, G17 loves an example of Slovenia, it is a country of example for them, and here I tell you – and you really need to look up to them when it comes to insurance. They, as of course, are practices in the European Union countries, I have quoted which directives the countries of the European Union handle when it comes to the demarcation of life insurance and non-life insurance, indeed for newly established insurance companies envisaged and obliged them to carry out the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, but they have excluded their main insurance company Triglav from this obligation, it continues to operate in a system of some sort common functions of life insurance and non-life insurance in one legal person, of course, with separate accounts, with separate accounts, etc. Therefore, we have shown, above all, that we MPs of the SRS, as well as colleagues from other parliamentary groups, that the law is full of disadvantages, full of gaps. Compared to other countries and countries in the environment, countries in the region, European Union countries, of course, there are even more shortcomings. We have shown that other countries protect their interests in the area of insurance, and that the finance minister proposed by law in our country does not. Therefore, I ask you to adopt the amendment to Article 234.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2857	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 234 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2858	Dear People's MPs, the issue of specialising in insurance organisations is a very serious issue. The European Community Directive 1989 further established the obligation to make specialisations, i.e. to share life insurance and non-life insurance. But what is important to us, to know, is that it is already preambled by that directive that it is intended not to apply to organisations that already operate, but only to those that will be established after that date. Of course, there is also an obligation to meet certain conditions, namely to practically conduct separate accounting and to protect insurance interests of both life insurance and non-life insurance. Further examples in Europe show that all countries at the level of their national legislation have provided for a certain measure of protection of domestic insurance organisations, however the predecessor mentioned in the case of Slovenia, in transitional and final provisions, it is envisaged that the obligation will not apply to "Triglav", which they experience as their national house, either by simply predicting that the obligation is applied only to the future, i.e. for future, i.e. to newly established insurance organisations. Normally, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic does not dispute the need for specialisation. But we are simply afraid that within the time limit given, which is by 2005, our subjects, our domestic subjects, will not be able to adequately prepare for this competition. It's practically an open market. As the minister himself said here, out of all life insurance jobs, there is only one percent of us, and 99% is property insurance. Now imagine how much that market is. Practically, in 2005, our insurance organisations should go out to that market and pick up a cake on that market, which is, in total, very, very large, but in competition with foreign entities and foreign insurance organisations, which are far more verifiable and capable of doing this job, far more prepared than our insurance organisations. We therefore propose an amendment to this article, which is to extend that deadline by at least two more years, when we have not already foreseen any other instruments for the protection of domestic organisations, to give our insurance organisations any chance of trying to find a place on that market. I repeat, the market is practically completely open, free, no one has entered into life insurance business yet. They account for only one percent of the total insurance operations carried out in our country. Therefore, I ask you as the ruling majority, as MPs, to accept this amendment. Nothing important changes and no obligation is fulfilled by just giving domestic subjects a little more chance to fight on that market. If you do not accept this amendment, we can expect that already in 2005, all life insurance jobs will mean total capital, the overall potential that exists on this market is in the pockets of foreign entities, which certainly cannot be of interest to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2859	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 235 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 237 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Finance Committee and the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 243rd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Igor Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2860	In fact, Article 243 is the most important, because the law wants to regulate the area of insurance, to prescribe supervision of insurance houses, and to regulate this area in a comprehensive way in the work of other norms. It is an attempt that will not succeed unless we adopt the amendments and at least partially improve the text of the law. But Article 243 is directly related to the wish of Minister Dinkic to fill the budget. I need to sell home insurance houses. The government that experienced the fiasco in the December elections when the SRS won its programme, which it underlined in autumn 2003, spoke of the need to sell one insurance house. Article 243 reads - the process of privatising social capital in insurance companies, in addition to the entities established by the rules governing privatisation, can be initiated by the Ministry. He's referring to the Ministry of Finance. This must not be allowed by the National Assembly. The finance ministry cannot be an entity that will launch the privatisation process in insurance houses for two reasons. First of all, it's not the Ministry of Finance's job. Secondly, there is the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, which only the sea and sea, in accordance with the law, to raise the issue of privatisation in businesses, including the issue of privatising insurance houses. However, if we have in mind the importance of insurance for the country's economy, the potential of the insurance market, if we are well informed as lawmakers about the potential of investment funds that follow from insurance funds and relevant companies, and if we have in mind solutions that other countries have applied, then I believe that we will vote in favour of my amendment to Article 243 which speaks of the need for the privatisation of social capital in insurance companies to be governed by a special law. So we must not allow Dinkic, as finance minister, to be the one to collect tenders for the privatisation of insurance houses. It, apparently, will be ignorant to question the assessment of the capital of domestic insurance companies and to the issue of the protection of state capital, and thus to protect state interests, in a quasi-structure, quasi-reformal way to contradict the story of the false value of our insurance houses, that the amount of 50, 60, 70m euros for the largest insurance houses is sufficient and that they are valuable and such insurance houses, and indeed, we have several very valuable insurance houses. Even if we're not talking about a security market that's a special value to itself. That's why I'm in favour, and I suggest you adopt an amendment to Article 243 that says - the privatisation process for social capital in insurance companies will be governed by a special law. Item 2 is deleted. We're all, of course, for privatisation, but it's a question of whether privatisation will be conducted based on real parameters or whether it will be a sale of insurance houses. Thus, this task is given to the National Assembly to deal in a comprehensive way with the issue of privatization of insurance houses, precisely for the protection of government capital, real value estimates and real sales of insurance houses.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2861	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2862	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, please pay attention to Article 243. The Company Act (Article 400a) clearly defines when the Government can take over the authority and appoint members of the managing authorities in one of the enterprises in the privatisation process. The Company Act makes it clear that the Government can take over those powers and jurisdiction only when the privatisation process has started and when the management authorities in that company are able to take over certain actions or by failing to take certain actions to interfere or prevent privatisation. The provision is quite clear and is also subsidically applied to insurance organisations. The question now arises why today we have a very vague provision in this law that the Government provides itself with the same powers, and that it is not determined under any circumstances that it can use such authority in any way. Indeed, there is a direct doubt behind this that the government's stronger involvement, i.e. the government's intervention in privatisation, is behind it, which in this situation certainly raises the question of why the government wants to do so. Indeed, the issue of privatising insurance organisations is a question of a couple of excellencies, and we cannot allow it to be dealt with in such unsettled terms as the position of Article 3 of this proposal of the law. Therefore, in order not to suspect that there are abuses, that there is an intention to commit abuses, we suggest that you accept the proposed amendment, when, for my entirely unknown reasons, you have not left this to the Company Act, Article 400a, which clearly, precisely, unquestionably defines this area. I repeat, the government by law wants to obtain powers that do not belong to it under any law. The management rights depend exclusively on the property relationship in the given entity. The government cannot obtain these rights, not just like this, because this leads to a new government tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, let the other government propose a law that will also take over management rights, perhaps in private businesses. Of course, this will never happen, but believe me, the principle is obviously the same. The conditions under which the Government is entitled to do something like this must be prescribed. If conditions are not prescribed, if Article 243 remains as proposed, the Government may replace the entire management team in any insurance entity tomorrow, in order to allegedly privatise the entity. So please accept this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2863	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone else, under Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he wants a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of Laws on the National Bank of Serbia (Serbs) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milorad Mircic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Krasic, so Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2864	Since the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is followed by the previous Insurance Act, the first article is complemented by Article 4 with a new point where the National Bank of Serbia is empowered to issue and withdraw permits, i.e. the powers to carry out its activities, control, or monitor the performance of its activities and perform other tasks, in accordance with the law governing insurance. We ask that this member be deleted. We have cited the reasons why we believe that all the affairs of the state and the enforcement of the law of the insurance law should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and its organisational form, but I would now draw attention that this supplement, if the promoter wants to finish this job with the control of the insurance in the way he imagined it, is not enough. It is not enough for the simple reason that the Law on the National Bank of Serbia defines the National Bank, by organisation, by jurisdiction, by business, by authorities, as a central monetary institution and as an institution that should control the banking system and only in one part of the financial flow. Putting in insurance business only by this intervention isn't enough. I'd have to remind you that then, practically, the National Bank would have to have a vice governor in charge of the insurance business. Practically, one of the members of the National Bank Council would have to resign to elect a new member of the National Bank of Serbia Council who would have some touch points with insurance jobs. Let me remind you, you chose a mathematician as a member of the Council, not an economist. The man is a mathematician, Kovacevic, and he with the economy has as many touch points as nuclear physics. The original man of mathematics. That was two months ago when you met your human needs and made combinations. So this change, this amendment, is insufficient and everyone who cares about the respect of the law will be clear that if you consider that insurance operations in terms of authorisation, authority, power, control, supervision should be done by the National Bank of Serbia, then there are still some changes to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, because this intervention that you offer is practically being inserted into one structure and that it is being inserted, because this has no touch points with the banking system. In this sense, there is the wrong constitutional basis, in this sense there is something, I don't know who writes to you the reasons: "banks can start insurance companies, and vice versa," and from that you find some connection that control jobs should be done by the same authority. If that's your only argument, it's a thin, insufficient argument. Only with that argument to get jobs out of the jurisdiction of the state administration at the National Bank of Serbia, one group of jobs is not enough. That's what you had to take care of. So, the National Bank of Serbia is essentially not prepared for this job and that preparation and guarantee that it can do the job does not even give the insurance law, the proposal you offered, and even less this minimal intervention in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. If you consider these words "in accordance with the law governing insurance" to define all jobs, then I must tell you that you are wrong, because this is not applicable when it comes to the original text of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2865	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2866	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this virtually confirms our position that the government's proposal to put supervision into the National Bank's control is not correct from the point of view of internal legislation (we spoke yesterday and Friday), because simply the Law on the National Bank of Serbia does not know such matters in Article 4, either in Article 5, 6, or in Article 54, which speaks of the work of affairs and the control that the National Bank of Serbia is doing. Of course, we are consistent with what we represent from the very beginning. This was, by the way, the position of our parliamentary group in the previous term, that these tasks should be done by an independent body, or an independent regulatory body, which I was already talking about quite yesterday, today and Friday. So we remain consistent with that. If you would accept our first amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by counterpart Leila Ruzdic, then it would practically mean that you accept the entire system. What was particularly pleasant to us is that the finance minister himself said yesterday that he had long hesitated between these two solutions, with the fact that I must admit that he did not convince us of the reasons why the advance, as he said - small himself, gave a solution that is still unknown in modern countries, especially in this region. I call upon you to accept this amendment, or I call upon you to accept a whole set of amendments relating to such an amendment. Otherwise, speaking of amending certain provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, you should practically amend the Law on Ministrys, because the tasks of the State Administration relating to control, or control of insurance, are in that law, as you recall, placed in the express jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, so I'm surprised that you missed it. If you wanted to, you had to do it too, so that we could have one regulated legislation and regulations that correspond to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2867	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone want a word according to Article 138? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Market of Papers and Other Financial Institutions (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law supplementing the Charter Market Act and other financial instruments has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The representatives of the proposing, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Komazec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered us for adoption. In the position of Article 2, 262a, which is proposed to be behind Article 262. The law on the paper market of value and other financial instruments states: "The government of the Republic of Serbia is making the procedure and the way in which the paper is traded against the value set out in Article 1. "My amendment suggests that at the end of this position, instead of the point, the decimal point and the following text: "and based on a written proposal from the Securities Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia." The government should make the procedure and way of trading securities of value closer, but I believe that the issue, however, must be discussed in the previous procedure by the Securities Commission, the Finance Ministry and the National Bank of Serbia. This amendment would result in the experience and observations of its work that would benefit the government of the Republic of Serbia greatly, resulting in the government of the Republic of Serbia better prescribing the process and way of trade in securities of value and other financial instruments. I hope that the adoption of this amendment will improve as much as possible the very bad proposal for a law supplementing the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered to this assembly, so I expect these reasons that this assembly will support this amendment on the day set for the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2869	Thank you. Mr. Krasic answered the question about this amendment, so Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2870	At first, let's get some things straight. The procedure and the way, it's synonyms for the same thing. You wrote in your second statement that the government of the Republic of Serbia will make the procedure and way of trading securities of value closer. There are several decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, including one concerning the Law on the Way and Procedure of the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we have been blacked out by the Constitutional Court, one and the other, claiming that whoever proposed the Law does not know what he wrote. I don't want to talk about these law school kids, who are disgusted when they see the way and the procedure standing next to each other. But, well, that's what we expected, and it doesn't surprise us very much. But we're surprised by something that stands in reason. It shows – at the strict request of foreign investors. So someone from abroad asked for what the government proposed, and she did it on a strict request from abroad and the law only creates a legal basis. What is the legal basis for? The legal basis for the government's authority to prescribe itself trade with its securities of value, four groups of securities of value. Of course, there's a problem. The problem is that this standard goes beyond the whole concept of the Charter Trade Act. To remind ourselves, this authority is required by the Government when it comes to securities of value based on the regulation of obligations and demand of the Paris and London Club, when it comes to charters of values related to old foreign exchange savings, when it comes to securities that have been made a conversion of the state's claim to business entities and which have been issued by banks, and the claim has passed to the state – the Republic of Serbia. This change, though modest, is in direct contrast to the Law on Assets in the possession of the Republic. This member bounces out of the whole concept of the Charter Trade Act of Values. This member resigns, or to be more precise, harshly trampling constitutional provisions on the division of power because, practically, the government wants to prescribe for itself what it will do and how it will do when it exercises some property rights. That's not allowed. I have to tell you, that's why they suffer and criticise and object. That's how it used to be. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has repeatedly been obliged to regulate trade in an objective, impartial and legal manner, and when the state appears as a property of securities of value, it is a completely different situation and cannot be taken over by the government to regulate and appear on the market. Of course, there are some probably big, bigger, taller, and who knows what kind of interests there are some deals. We don't know what he's been up to with the IMF, international investment groups, what is who he's promised to, what who, by keeping the securities of value, about the assets of the banks that are destroyed at the first stage, who is going to belong to, who, at what cost, is going to be worth on the market of these securities of value, these are all some questions that are going to be in deep darkness. I don't even believe he'll be in government jurisdiction, no matter what the bill says. It will be a non-identified group to sit well, so literally speaking, as at some gambling table in Apatino, to finish the party, share the property and so dismember and possibly market, and this future market on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why the SRS won't vote for this bill. We also warn the congregation majority to take a little account, so it's not too late tomorrow – we didn't remember, no one informed us. Take care, we'll show you in time what's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2871	Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2872	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment and the Rules of Procedure. We'll also vote for this law. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic votes for three of these five draft laws. As for the two draft laws we disagree with, we have submitted a number of amendments and DS MPs have come out more than 50 times in these three days in order to explain their views to you, with full respect for Mr. Minister who, unfortunately, was not present and with full respect for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority. So, we respect these institutions and these facts, but it seems to us that you do not respect us, because when you are establishing this Parliament, you said you would never ask for the quorum of the opposition. I just counted the MPs of the ruling majority and only 60 are present in this room. If we are already trying and fully respecting you and expressing our views, it is not right that you should not be in the O.R. when we speak, because 84 is a really minimal condition for quorum and I think it is very easy to have that number, with very little discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2873	Thank you, if you understand, are you looking for a quorum check or not, Mr. Markovic, are you looking for a check? Thank you. Please, the basic thing is that it has to be respected, firstly, according to the Rules of Procedure. Be kind, I ask all the MPs to insert their identification cards to check the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic system, only 74 MPs are present in the O.R. Let's go back to other respects, respect for the people who pay for this, which are citizens of Serbia. According to Article 217 paragraph 2: "To the People's MP of Item 1 of this article who is unjustly absent in the course of... "The People's MP, who is on permanent duty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum as well as during the session." I ask the service to check whether the electronic vote is correct, whether the MPs present are in constant work in the Assembly. We must wait for a report of the service that determines whether, in accordance with Article 217(1), MPs who are constantly employed and receive money in the National Assembly at work and whether they are quorum. So it was found that 85 MPs were present in the O.R. So we have a quorum to keep working. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have nothing against what Mr. Markovic says, but it would be good for him to go out for a pay phone and say that, not from the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask you, Mr. Markovic, not to abuse her in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2875	Mr. Wolf, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2876	You've injured Article 100, Mr. Markovic, because you're talking about MPs who don't want to give you quorum here in a way that just isn't appropriate. Please don't do that in the future. I ask you, according to the Rules of Procedure, to check how many MPs there are in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2877	Thank you for the intervention. So, of course, whenever I have something personal to say, as a replica, I'll show up at a pay phone like I've always done, but when I read the members of the Rules of Procedure by which I lead the Assembly, of course I'll quote from the chair. I remind you once again, therefore, I only read Article 217, which says: "The MP who is on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2878	Mr Markovic, I will remind you of what you and the ruling majority MPs said here when we started working at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I see a lot has changed. A lot has changed for reasons of overallity, because you think you need a different attitude now. Well, you said here, Mr. Markovic, that you would never force and the head of the parliamentary group of the largest party in power said he would never again force the opposition to give you a quorum. The quorum has been reduced from 126 to 84. Well, you're in no condition to have 84 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do not make the opposition and say it – and you are in constant labor, so you must listen and be in there all the time. So we're your political opponents. We want to beat you and show how incompetent you are and we do it in a civilized way in accordance with the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those who act this way by making some kind of unarticulated noises, they certainly don't. I ask you, Mr Markovic, to remember what you promised the citizens of Serbia, to remind your MPs of the principles of responsibility, seriousness and that they should work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because little is more important in Serbia than the work that this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has to do. So I'm asking you not to lecture us whether or not we're going to sit in the O.R. We won't, if you haven't provided 84 people in this room, because we want to beat you as soon as possible, because we want the people in a transparent way to know how unserious you are, how much you don't care about the interests of Serbian citizens and that the people and citizens of Serbia choose those who are your political opponents in the upcoming elections. That's our goal, that's what's real. You know, of course, that precisely because of what I said will beat you first in the presidential elections of Tomislav Nikolic, and then come all those other choices, one after the other, which, as you well know, will happen realistically. Anyway, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Markovic, and I know that you have your "false" RTS that helped you last night, since you couldn't help yourself here at the Serbian Parliament. Go on with it... (From O.R.: Theme. )......................................................................................................... I didn't understand. (From O.R.: Theme. If you have something to say, go out for a pay phone, don’t throw away mice all the time. I come out here and I tell you everything in your face. When I want to tell you that you're thieves, I come and say you're thieves. Go out for a pay phone, so say what you have, don't throw it away, because you have nothing to do with it but show the people and the citizens of Serbia what you are and how many cowards you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2879	Replica, MP Predrag Markovic, and then MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2880	Mr. Wolfie, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate people for being able to keep their promises. I can't answer for other people's promises, not yours, not other MPs. There is no need to falsely inform the public, so I promised from this pay phone that I would help the MPs, and I prayed that MPs help me and anyone who sits in that place, to restore the dignity of the Parliament by respecting the Rules of Procedure. As you know, I wasn't involved in making that Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not know the concept of position and opposition, only knows how to regulate relations in the work of the Assembly among MPs. Consistently, and I've done that before, I haven't mentioned a single party, nor will I be doing it in the future. I hope you're all feeling better when it's done that way. So, I've quoted in both cases a member of the Rules of Procedure. It's good to respect the law. It's good for everyone in this country. MPs in the assembly must also show that they are capable and willing to comply with the law that applies to them. The Rules of Procedure are a legal act that refers precisely to... Sublegal, is that right, correct me, you're a lawyer, I'm not... So, sublegal, which refers precisely to the MPs. I will always try to regulate tolerance between MPs. Who's going to provide most of it, that's none of my business. What anyone promised, it's none of my business. In Serbia, like all Serbian citizens, I have listened to promises. It's interesting to see those who keep their promises one day. You know, I've proven myself able to keep my promises, because I'm not making any fake and too big, and I didn't prove it myself. Many MPs and positions and opposition have proved in the previous period, and I ask them to continue to do so, not to fight needlessly and to take advantage of the opportunity for advertising campaigns. I don't think it's good for anyone, and at least it's good for this country that's in bad shape. Everything we do here, the citizens of Serbia pay. So let's do something that will benefit them, make laws, fight for our political ideas, not give false information about others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2881	Replica, MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2882	Dear colleagues, Mr. Wolfie, I'd like to point one thing out to you. On the side that you have called the messengers of this honored home the mice, and thus offended the dignity of this assembly and of them personally, I will not ask that it be determined in the day of voting for the violations of the Rules of Procedure, nor that you should be punished, let it remain on your conscience. I think you're completely misreading and understanding this Rules of Procedure. One part I wanted to point out to you, Mr Markovic pointed out. This Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not meant to distinguish between the opposition and the position, between authorities and non-government, between those who "give" the quorum and who "take" the quorum. This is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative body of this country. He knows nothing about those categories you're talking about, nor does it work in them. Simply and briefly, we are elected MPs. The sovereignty comes from the people. The people didn't trust us here with power, gentlemen, he first-classly entrusted us with the obligation, and that obligation should each of us, whether it's from the government or the opposition, and now I'm expressing myself in political rather than in the category of Rules of Procedure, to accept it in the same way. I've never said for this pay phone, as head of the largest parliamentary club in the ruling majority, that we don't need anyone to give a quorum. I've never said that here since I've been sitting in this assembly for five or six months, I don't know where you got it or how you put it in my mouth, I never said it here. Anyway, I don't want to speak at all and speak in those sizes. The quorum is just one institute that knows this Rules of Procedure and should contribute to the seriousness of the debate, which is that there is one sufficient number of people to discuss a matter. He does not serve as someone trying to obstruct the work of this congregation by not being present at this session. Moreover, our Rules of Procedure inconsistently edits a matter; a man can literally, taking that unfortunate card out of the system to determine the number of MPs, to exclude himself from that quorum, and to be present in the hall and to participate in the work. It would be far better if we had a solution like that in the German Parliament – the quorum is determined at the entrance to the building, and it is then on the MP and on his conscience whether he will fulfil his obligation and participate in the work of the assembly, to discuss the laws on the agenda, or not. We have a funny situation here that half the MPs are sitting in our hall without being present. I think that the Rules of Procedure in that part is bad and that we might consider having our Rules of Procedure changed nicely and that the quorum is determined, by the reputation of the German Parliament, by entering the building. Then you wouldn't.. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... appear this problem whether someone is present or not is present and cynical throwings of the type – you are not present in the hall, now I will insert the card, so I will be present in the hall. I don't think that cynicism is the place in this house; I repeat, and with that end, there's no mandate here to obstruct anyone, to act destructively, to destroy anyone here. We have been given the mandate to discuss the bill's proposals and if we think they're good to support them, if we think they're bad enough to return them to the promoter and so forth. We weren't given a mandate here to fight, to get high, to use this pay phone for election campaigns. I will remind you, even your presidential candidate, the esteemed Mr Nikolic, said, and other presidential candidates have responded, that they will not use this pay phone in the election campaign; I welcome this, this is the right way that all presidential candidates should treat this parliament, but we ourselves need to understand this Parliament in this way. (President: Time. This is no place for an election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2883	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Wolfie. Here you go. Please, one second, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Vukic spoke according to the Rules of Procedure, so he has the right to replication. I remind you once again, this congregation will be guided by the Rules of Procedure and no one can be denied the right. Mr. Wolfie, come in. I had to make it clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2884	To help you, Mr. President, I would not have the right to challenge the replica, but I have the right to, since I have spoken to the head of the parliamentary group of the largest party within the regime, and what I mentioned from this pay phone is, boasting that it will not continue the character and work of the former DS regime, said Mr. Dejan Mihajlov. That's what I was talking about. So that's why I have the right to the replica. As for everything Mr. Ristivojevic said, in one perfidious and ugly way, as I didn't hope you'd be doing, and the more you've been doing lately, you've said that I've called all the MPs to mice. You're making it up, Mr. Ristivoevich. I said, "Those who earn and cannot go out for a pay phone." Is that true? Well, that's true, Mr. Ristivoevich. That's the difference between you and us. That's the difference between lies and truth. The way you twist someone's words, the way your "false" shows events in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is what should go on to your shame and to the shame of those who do so. But Serbian citizens see it well. Mr. Ristivoevich, I'm not going to tell you that someone who leads the government in this country should know that— "even more" is pleonasm and does not use it. But I want to tell you, Mr Ristivoevich, something else - don't supplement our rules of procedure with your norms and regulations. We gave you our business solution, with which you agreed to the most; a democratic solution, when we did not know whether we would be power or opposition. We have offered you that there are no limits in time, that there is no charge of punishment for the MPs of the people. Yesterday, the vice president of the National Assembly cursed, when she said, in front of Serbia's general public, you didn't hear it in the O.R., it was recorded on the tapes, so everyone heard because the microphone was off, but it was heard on RTS in direct transmission, when she wouldn't give me a word on the Rules of Procedure. So, we don't have any kind of problem, but don't punish me every time. Three times you've put your hand in my pocket and taken money in this term, because it's occurred to you and because you think it solves some problems. Maybe. But you will not prevent any of the Serbian radicals from telling you the truth. If you wanted a democratic Rules of Procedure, you would adopt our proposal or you would consider it, possibly correcting and supplementing amendments. And you want to make it even worse, even worse. You want this criminal, which you brought, on your proposal was brought to this assembly. It's one of the worst acts that exists in the regulation of congregation work, the worst Rules of Procedure that has existed since the 1990s, the only one that is absolutely undemocratic, and you still want to spice it up... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... By not being able to distinguish opposition MPs from ruling MPs, so they have to be all the time, or I don't know what kind of a norm. Oh, no, you don't. Oh, we want to be different! We want to beat you, not obstruct you. We endure the most amendments. Is that right? Did we make the most of the legal proposals? More than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Have we submitted most of the other general legal acts? We did. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf. We have done, I am finishing up, Mr Markovic, and we will continue to do what is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, but believe me, the greatest interest of the Serbian citizens is that you leave the government as soon as possible and we will make sure that you do so in the best and most comprehensive way and as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2885	Thank you. There's no replica on the replica. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Please, just a second, excuse me, he's got a line, don't be mad. Please, be nice for a moment, we'll get to the Rules of Procedure first. You asked for a word first, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Ristivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2886	Mr. President, I think you are unwarrantedly objecting to freely interpreting the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, you interpret the Rules of Procedure restrictively, so in Article 217, you skipped to read the second position that he says - that to the MP of the House of Commons in Item 1. (which you have read) who is unwarrantedly absent when determining the quorum or during work at the National Assembly session, the status of Members of the Parliament of Permanent Work in the Serbian Parliament will be taken away. Therefore, it is known that the Rules of Procedure also had verification in the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court did not dispute this provision (votes – which you are smart, terrible). So I don't see why...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2887	I ask the MPs not to receive. I don't agree with the findings... (Employee Cirkovic speaks with the president at the same time. Mr. Cirkovic, please. So, I'm against the finding that, for a part of the MPs that are getting out, Mr. Vukic, but still, according to the Rules of Procedure, don't interrupt the speaker by throwing. Be nice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2888	So, once again, I propose that the Administrative Board discuss this matter and reach a conclusion and measure in agreement with the existing Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, there's a way to change that rules of procedure. May the largest parliamentary group in this House submit a proposal for amendments, and he shall enter into the agenda... (Glasses – well, we put up with it. I didn't read that you intervened on this article. I'm not sure about that. But anyway...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2889	Please don't throw away, you can go out on the Rules of Procedure for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2890	... I urge this request to be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2892	So, once again, I ask you, Mr. President, to schedule a session of the Committee and to follow the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2893	Thank you. Mr. Ristivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2894	Article 100, famous. If you already want to make a difference, dear colleague Mr. Vukic, the difference is that no one in this ruling majority will abuse a pay phone to call MEPs to mice. There's no difference between the one who tells the other from this pay phone that the mouse and the one who's talking somewhere between these benches is another that he's a mouse. There's no difference. If you're insisting on some consistency and little things, did you call all 250 MEPs or a group, I admit, you're right, in general this half-left one group you called completely mice. I'm still saying that it's an insult to the dignity of this home and to those people that it was referring to, I'm still not asking for any of your responsibility to be determined, precisely because I don't want you to be a victim here. I claim and remain on it – it should remain on your conscience. As for who's destructive here, who here is obstructing work and who doesn't, yesterday we could hear the threat of a guy from Mrs. Pop-Lazic's distinguished colleague – you'll see when we start to submit amendments to each member of the bill, so when every MP starts coming out, how long it will take you to pass the laws. Now, so much for who's destructive here, who's constructive here, who understands this debate the way he needs to understand it, and who just wants to obstruct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2895	Since it was in the Rules of Procedure, the replica, Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point to one fact, Mr. Ristivoevich. Unlike others, SRS MPs do not run away from political struggle, fair, knighted, correct political struggles. What does that mean? You get out, I get out, or I get out, you get out. Is that fair? We have the same chance. We have the same opportunity to tell each other what we want, we have the same chance to tell the citizens of Serbia what we think. But the difference is that part of your government is trying in the most terrible way possible to attack the strongest political party in Serbia and thus attacks the largest number of Serbian citizens. We showed you here yesterday, and I have it on me today, as your coalition partners also accuse Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS and the Serbian Radical Party for Fascism. Is that an invitation to the lynch? Does someone have to deal with us, kill us? Is that what you're looking for, Mr. Ristivoevich? Yeah, I'm the one who gets rudely, the ones who can't go out for this pay phone called the mice. Yeah. And? Is that less, Mr. Ristivoevich, or a much smaller threat, or no threat compared to what you call citizens to deal with those who are godless fascists? Fascists are those who have no political argument, but by force or otherwise come to power or prevent the work and operation of their political opponents. And it certainly is no one from the Serbian Radical Party, but it is many within your regime, Mr Ristivojevic. And, Mr. Ristivojevic, as for your authority and your good relationship in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is it a threat to you that someone has told you that they will submit amendments? Well, we didn't even do that. When Mr. Kostunica invites us to talk, we arrange everything there, no problem, no matter what we have the largest number of MPs, one, two or three, or three, however, to agree. And every time we take some kind of principle agreement. We don't have any kind of problem. And you'll call us fascists in that time? You call our people fascist? You'll be handing out flyers in that time. [[Sagar.]] What are you yelling at? Something I see, the ones who shared that flyer by yesterday are now saying they're not doing it, and they think something's funny. It's not funny anything. It is sad that you treat the citizens of Serbia this way. It's sad that you treat those who are much better than you. How much better we are than you have shown Serbian citizens in the elections; some who have had 30 mandates, and give us 82, some who tell themselves that they are the best in Serbia and have 50 mandates... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And we're 82. Think carefully whether Serbian citizens know or not, and think carefully about whether Serbian citizens will be able to recognise it in the upcoming elections. They will, believe me, it won't be funny to you or cynicism or sarcasm when you hear the election results on June 13th. For you, it will be devastating, and because of what you are doing, and because of that laughter and all the false accusations and all the nonsense you are making in the campaign, because of the "false" you abuse, Tomislav Nikolic will celebrate on June 13th and will celebrate Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2897	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, as a misreading, asked for the word Mr Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2898	Dear counterpart Mr. Vucic, when it came to the president of the province's parliament, the only party in Vojvodina that protected you and the statements was the DSS, and one of the few individuals who came forward against such phenomena on the political scene was me. In doing so, I want to say that you are not particularly privileged, that anyone has sought to ban any party that moves within the framework of fair political play, the DSS and I as an individual would stand up against it. You're not privileged here. Anyone else if it were, we'd do the same. One of the things that are not allowed on the political scene, it is to fight against its political opponents by demanding their ban. So much for that fascism. Just the mouse stuff. Next time, please refer the same criticism to the honourable colleagues of your party, when they receive a speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2899	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the final part of Mr Ristivojevic's exposure, I agree, especially when it comes to rude pitching, and you could see that. But as far as this first part is concerned, Mr. Ristivoevich, it doesn't occur to me that anyone in the U.S.S. feels contagious and sneaky, that you're telling us - imagine, we were protecting you. From what? What have we done? Did we go somewhere to burn down the congregation? Did we go to turn on the TV? Did we kill someone somewhere to get to power? Did we lynch anyone anywhere? Have we ever done anything against the law? Why is that? Because of the idea? Because of the idea of someone being banned? The modern world doesn't know that. Because of a democratic idea to do it. You don't throw, from the front row, who waved guns, so I don't tell you who waved at the AKs, even though he saw them for the first and last time in his life. It's better if you don't say anything about it. By the way, I see something's happened to you, something you've changed your performances a little bit and you're yelling. I guess you think you're more convincing, and your representatives at some gatherings, I guess they think the louder they are, the more people will convince the truth of the claim. He won't. You don't have to yell, you don't have to throw. Just be patient and you'll get answers to everything. We're neither contagious nor snotty, we're proud people and we represent our own idea, our own political agenda. We boast that we are members of the SRS, that we have President Vojislav Seselj, which we have a clear programme, both politically and economically, and everywhere and in every place we point out that. I'm just telling you one more time, we're not gonna be anyone's reason for this protection or for anyone to defend us from anyone. If we've done anything illegal or against the law, you'll let us know. If we are not, then you will respect and acknowledge the will of the people and citizens of Serbia, not to boast of how you do it. It's an obligation, like any other. I invite you to do the same thing on June 13th. I call upon you only to acknowledge the will of the people as we have always acknowledged it, that you do nothing on lists abroad or anywhere else, because we will not admit it to you. To admit and accept fair results, no matter what they do by then, as the people and citizens of Serbia will plead. Then know, June 13, we did that job we couldn't do in the congregation. Your government fell on June 13th, only if some of them keep their promise. (President: Time. I hope that at least one promise will be fulfilled. Serbian citizens will look forward to all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2901	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2902	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. I don't think this discussion is only offensive to MPs and MPs, but it is offensive to the citizens of Serbia, to all those who have entrusted their voice to such MPs. For these reasons, I use this speaker to take on behalf of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, but also on behalf of all well-intentioned MPs who take their role seriously here, publicly sorry citizens of Serbia, and to take advantage of this opportunity to remind the SRS gentlemen just of that famous member of the 217, who is quoted, but not specified. Each of us who worked at a company knows what the consequences are if he takes a ticket or doesn't come to work that day. I didn't see that the gentlemen of the SRS, who are on permanent duty in this house, were indeed boycotting this house's cash register. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2903	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so you don't have to bother yourself, since I see some yearning for penalties against the MPs of the SRS, you've been punishing us a little bit, you've taken us a little, I suggest you do it. Do it, bring in new provisions, make it clear. Do what you want. Do what you want. What are you waiting for? Is there more of us than all of you together? We're gone. It will be soon, but we're still gone than all of you are together. Do it. What are you complaining about? I apologize to Serbian citizens for not knowing that they are choosing those who will not work in their interest, but that will be decided by the citizens in the next election. You and I are thinking the same thing, just different people thinking the same thing. As far as the register is concerned, you have enslaved all the registers in this country, wherever you are in power. You'll talk to someone about the cash registers. There's no cash register in Serbia that you didn't rob. Ask the citizens of Belgrade, where you can't have 3% with a stick to skip, ask them what they think of your cash registers. You're gonna tell somebody about the register! You're the one who sets the rules. If someone has taken something illegal, say it, and if they take what you and all the other MPs take, it's something that's normal. If you want to throw us out, if you want to deny our working relationship, if you want to persecute us in any way, you do. I told you here when we started, this reminds me of a happy new year in 2001. I know, some others were sitting in these benches, acting the same way. I have to admit, worse than you do today. I'd be lying to say like you are today, that it's the same thing. It's worse, it's worse, it's worse, it's worse, it's worse, it's worse, it's Take it all the same way. We acted the same way, and from 23 we came to 82 MPs. Exactly, because of the same behavior... (President: Please, Ambassador Jovanovic, don't get any more. )......................................................................................................... Because of the same policy, the same democratic relationship, now we're going to go from 82 to 132. That's the difference between you and us and what you haven't been able to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2905	Can we get back to work? A replica to Mr. Wolf? (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: No, to you. ) Please, I just warned you, according to the Rules of Procedure, not to throw away the speaker. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2906	Mr. Markovic, your concentration's a little off. You keep looking at the ranks of Serbian radicals, there are most of us, and as our secretary general said, there will be much more of us. You'll see what happens on June 13th. The first link of your flimsy government will break and then those who laugh so beautifully, who share flyers with such passwords that are otherwise anti-constitutional, who call for hatred...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2907	You mean the member you called for?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2908	Article 28, Mr. Markovic, because he regulates what you do, and you don't exactly do it. I guess Article 28 regulates the rights and obligations of the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2909	Citate the MPs so they know what it's about, seeing as they don't understand you. Be kind, it's your duty to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2910	You know what, Mr. Markovic, you're not going to tell me when I advertise some member of the Rules of Procedure what I'm going to do and how I'm going to advertise it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2911	It's not me. It's the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2912	If you want to quote it, go ahead and quote it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2913	According to the Rules of Procedure, an MP who reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure must quote members who have been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2914	I don't want to quote it, and you go ahead when I'm done, go ahead and quote if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2915	In that case, I have to take your word for it, because you don't do business in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? Ms. Jovanovic is now reporting according to the Rules of Procedure. Please quote a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2916	I am advocating Article 1 that regulates the rights and obligations of MPs under the Rules of Procedure, which was established and established on the initiative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, of course when you were not, Mr Markovic, chairing even when you could not imagine that you would participate in the political life of Serbia. Since that, by chance, has happened to you, I warn you as an MP with full sovereignty, who has transferred part of the voter to me, as well as to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, that in the future you do not abuse the position of the chairman of the Assembly, because you know that she was the previous one who chaired the past when she acted as you did. You're a lot alike, you're a lot alike. You have begun to quote the same member of the Rules of Procedure, whether the MPs are on permanent duty or not, who they throw at. Notice first and foremost the MPs of your encrypted organization G17 plus, minus, as you call yourself, how they behave, how rude they are, how unseemly they are, and then you will come to the conclusion that who should work in the interests of the people and voters who sent us here. I thank you very much, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2917	Replica, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2918	I'm really sorry, it's getting boring, but worse is expensive for the citizens of Serbia. The Cheapest is that it has been done according to the Rules of Procedure and so far, in the past few months, all MPs have helped; once again, I have promised and I will do, I have respected all MPs, and I have said it many times. There's voters behind them. This parliament, in this assembly, has no problem that MPs in it do not know how many voters are behind them. In the previous session, there was this problem, and I respect every MP, and it is literally referred to by the Rules of Procedure, as long as I am in charge of the session, because the citizens chose the parties proposed by the MPs. As long as you're here, in this way chosen, and while I'm here, it's my job to respect that, whatever we think of each other. Please, for reason's sake, it's not politics right now, to distinguish basics. I warned you last time Mr. Wolf couldn't remember if it was Mr. Martian or me. Nothing ugly. It's just, he mentioned it, and then he said -- it was Mr. Martian, I apologize, from the bench, and that was the last time. So there's a difference. People are different. Respect the difference between people. And secondly, how will the citizens trust you when you do not distinguish Mrs. Micic from me. Please, it's not offensive for anyone, but you have to learn to respect differences. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia rests on differences and we here, all together, represent different political opinions, and that's good. There are no single political opinions in Serbia, thank God. They differ and therefore there are 250 MPs in this assembly and between six and 11 political parties. Serbia has a wealth of differences. Let's respect these differences, but we're working for the benefit of the citizens. We have no reason to deceive the citizens. As I told Mr. Vukic last time, so he will now, I suppose, use this right to the replica – so I only told you once, and the second time Mr. Marsican did it, it wasn't me twice and I call on the Rules of Procedure – now I'm also saying that I didn't chair, it was Mrs. Micic, and there are obvious differences. On June 13th, because we all fought the law together (you don't have to remind me, I know that four seconds have expired), so on June 13th, there are presidential elections and it won't change the assembly's composition at all and don't deceive the public, whoever comes out. Let us learn once to respect what is seen in common with common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2919	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic is the second time today, it may be appropriate for someone to listen, and we have warned your predecessors, Mr. Markovic, that they are not. Don't blame the opposition for what it costs, especially when it comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it's what Hitler's officials used to do. They always warned about how much the sessions cost, how much money was spent needlessly, etc. I'm telling you this, and I don't know why you're so allergic to this story when you like to deal with the subject of fascism; I've read a few books, maybe more than 12 or 13, from Fascism theory, and I'd like you to go out and tell me the one thing you've read, so I know a lot of things to tell you, which you haven't even heard. Please don't use that argument anymore. Mr. Markovic, as to whether or not I know how to distinguish you, I may have a problem with my eyesight, but I can't tell you the difference between you and Natasa Micic, Marsican, you and Emilia Krstic, it makes no difference to me. There may be some problem in my eyesight, but, as you said, you gave me one warning, a Martian who knows how much, Natasa Micic doesn't remember, even because I took it out and paid it, and I guess he's not here, but I have to pay at the cashier's checkout, and also Emilia Krstic later remembered that she should give me a warning. That's not what I'm worried about. Give as much warning as you want, even though it's against the constitution, because it'll destroy your power faster and better. Do whatever you want, but don't accuse political opponents of cheating. You, Mr. Markovic, said the government would change. If the government's composition will change, I've talked about it, not about changing the assembly's composition. I said that your government will fall, because on June 13th by winning Tomislav Nikolic, for the great joy of the citizens, you are leaving that government and no longer has that government. I don't think there was anything more important you could tell the citizens of Serbia. It's their most important motivation to go to the election on June 13th. They know that you will be freed once and for all and that you will never again control the financial flows in this country. That's what's true, and I hope you haven't forgotten your promise. As far as the SRS is concerned, we want to work and to have this National Assembly function normally, and I invite you, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, to apologize to the SRS for the shameful flyer you printed and which your activists shared. I expect that from you as a responsible state official. If you don't, then we'll talk about who's fascist and who's not and then you'll hear what the arguments are about what you've been doing and how you've been doing. Let's see if you're declaring it the largest political party in Serbia fascist or not, whether you're doing it or not, or if someone may have falsified the flyers, or if they've reprinted it in the press "Cicero" these partners of yours that made this poster "Marsica - 100% alcohol" or I don't know what. That's what we in the SRS have never done and we don't want to do it. (President: Time. So I ask you, Mr. Markovic, to stop with that hypocrite, with that two-facedness, with those false standards - I will play nice here, and I will act out here in the worst possible way to treat my political opponents. (President: Time. This is our only chance to go out and tell us what we think. We don't control the lie. Rest assured, these stories of fascism in Serbia,... (Chairman: You're out of time, Mr. Wolfie. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Emilia, Mrs. Krstic. With all this, Mr. Markovic, you are only insulting the intelligence and pride of the citizens of Serbia, and our people are proud, our people are worthy and our people to you They won't let you do that kind of political manipulation in the future. [[Applause]] (President: Five minutes, Mr. Wolfie.) Otherwise, this place suits you much more than it does worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2921	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2922	You don't know the difference again. Every place suits me well. (Lowers from the Hall: Which member of the Rules of Procedure? Of course, I'll call a member. Because this is my country and every place in this country suits me well. I'm referring to article 100. So, once again, I remind you that there's no point in giving false facts. And you and I both know that I haven't printed any flyers. What are you talking about, Mr. Wolfie? I printed some flyers? I can't print. One who claimed such a thing ended up in court, so he was convicted. His name was Veselinov. It was such a system that the verdict was written – since it was a member of the then-Government of Serbia, so they could not find it for a year and a half, since it is a member of the government, the damage claim is reduced. You can imagine! That's why I'm fighting for the control of the executive, and that's why I'm fighting for the independence of the judiciary. So one of them lied, so he ended up in court, and now he's gonna pay. No, I didn't print any flyers. I don't do flyers, nor will I ever do anything. Please imagine I'm accusing the SRS of something you do or vice versa, accusing you of something that the SRS does. For God's sake, what's that look like? Once again, please - distinguish between basics. God forbid, that's what I was saying earlier, that all people are equal. Of course, one works for the party, one works for the individual himself, and one knows who's responsible for what. By the way, I wasn't there yesterday when some lenses were shown and torn up here. If I was, I'd certainly intervene. As a result, under Article 102, MPs should not be allowed to interrupt the speaker in disposing, so I have warned Ms Jovanovic not to do so before, nor should it be offensive to talk about the MPs or the former MPs, so they must not even tear up pictures of the man who was head of the parliamentary group in this assembly for years. I don't pronounce names because it's ugly to abuse anyone's names, but I'm against such campaigns. Please, I enjoy the support of everyone, and I will continue to run it consistently, according to the Rules of Procedure, as long as I am President of the Assembly. (President: Time. ) If such a thing happens and someone calls the people, parties individually, fascists, I will react the same. There are no fascist parties in Serbia. (President: Time. Please, let's respect the facts. Besides, the parties have their names and names. In this assembly, it is known exactly what party is called, as has been known in history, and the fascist party in Germany was called the National Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2923	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that at least in the end Mr Markovic's opinion differs from those who are above him in the political party and who are able to deal with such obvious lies and inventions and it is good that Mr Markovic said it from this pay phone. What's significant to me, and what Mr. Markovic shouldn't have done, is kind of a trick, because, for God's sake, you were tearing up a picture of Vojislav Seselj. No, we've been tearing up what's one miserable attempt by a poor political organization to present the people and parties as they aren't, that in the most filthy manner possible insults that man who bravely and proudly defends his country and his own party, and his family. A man who has four children, who has a grandchild, who is guilty to you only because he was better than you, so you wrote an indictment against him. That's why this man was in your way, so you had to drive him to The Hague, so now you take pictures of him and say, "Stop Fascism." Stop your fascism and put bags on the head of the free people you arrest in Serbia. Stop fascism to persecute those who think differently from you. It has to be a stop in Serbia once. Stop with your dirty lenses and your dirty campaigns. Once in Serbia, it must be done in a fair way to win and honest people must win. That's enough of that dirt. At the time of the Communist Union, at the worst of Broz's time, they didn't do it. That's enough of your fiction. You say, "I'm not a printer." That's not what I meant. You issued the warrant and paid for printing those dirt. Who's from that party, I don't know, doesn't matter. Maybe that's what you got for nothing, it doesn't matter, but there's been a lot of it. Do not attack Vojislav Seselj again. You're having a little bit of a time to drive him to The Hague with a made-up indictment. You're having a little bit of an attack on his children, because he'll have 200 euros or he won't have 200 euros from the state. Stop that already. Do not touch the family in Serbia, do not touch the political parties that are better than you, and they are better because they have gained greater confidence from Serbian citizens. Stop lying and making up lies. If you want new rules, if you want new rules, do whatever you want, warn, take, kidnap, do whatever you want. You want to shoot, shoot. You can do anything, but stop lying more, stop fooling the public. That's enough. We won't allow you any more of that one moment. Vojislav Seselj is not a fascist. You are fascists, and Vojislav Seselj is a Serbian hero, and the whole Serbian people know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2925	There's no one else for the amendment. You want to talk about...? Please, don't, there's already been fined yesterday because one MP said they were all fascists, and now he's repeated it, please don't talk about it, we just cleared it up, be nice. According to the Rules of Procedure, before that, Mr. Markovic, come in. Be nice, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2926	Mr. President, I've answered one four times, I have to tell you, and in this ghastly discussion you haven't noticed at all, Mrs. Vice President can confirm that I've answered several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2927	Please excuse me, quote a member and excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2928	So, first it was when the Democratic Party was mentioned, and later it was because of some other things. At the very least, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure right now, and I have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure, and I'm referring to article 100 if we'd like to make it very formal. First of all, I would really like to give you one objection, and I very much respect you, and I see that you are trying to run this assembly as best as you can, but I really didn't expect you to mention former Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic. So that was so untasteful that I really lost my word. Another thing I'm going to ask you for, whether it suits you or not, is that you're sitting where you are, you're the President of Parliament, and don't sit next to the door, by the stairs, etc. But honestly, no matter what it does, I think it's the result of this dialogue. As this dialogue began on the matter of respect, I will repeat what it was, because here the ruling coalition has now been indicted at the expense of the opposition, and precisely we of the opposition have pointed out the disrespect of our work and our efforts in this House. Since only the opposition submits amendments, since the total number of speakers is 99% of the opposition's speakers, since the speech for this speaker implies a certain preparation that also takes time, we are asking only one thing of you as the ruling majority and we said that most of you are respected and respected and the government-led proposals, the mandate has been given in the elections. So, there's only one thing we're looking for, and that's to sit and listen to us. You have no right to be here in the O.R. on a regular basis less than 84. Now I've been counting, there's less than 84 of you again. You have no right to do that. Mr. Wolfie made a suggestion. I suggest we break this controversy, continue to work on Mr. Vukic's proposal, I think it was also a proposal under the Rules of Procedure, if I'm not mistaken, and stop mentioning what we can't solve now, not to mention something that was before, because for the mistakes that previously existed, we would have been paid; let's not elaborate our current mistakes on the constant mention of the previous ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2929	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Public Procurement Laws (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miroslav Martic, Dragoljub Zivkovic, Milan Škrbić, Miljko Četrović, Nikola Lalić, Srdjo Komazec and joint MPs Milutin Svetović and Slavoljub Matić. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, National MPs Milutin Svetinović and Slavoljub Matic withdrew the amendment that they submitted together to Article 50. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2930	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after these gallant debates, we have finally returned to what we are here for. I would immediately notice the remarks you made, that the SRS does not want to participate and obstruct the work of parliament, which is absolutely not true and it is ridiculous. Here, I answer for the first time, and I think it's my turn to say that I'm coming from Apatino as the MP of the SRS; I'm going out for the first time for a pay phone, and I'd really like to ask you to listen, because I see a lot of people coming out again, there's no quorum again, you're accusing all of them, all of them, MPs of the SRS. I say, I come from Apatino, as many of you here in congregation towers say - the richest city in Serbia, which is absolutely not true. It's not true, and it could be, because it's just bad and, let me say, no government that's out there has been able to do it, and it could. Maybe on another occasion when I'm going out, I'll say a little bit more about it, and now I'm going back to what I went out for, and that's the amendment I submitted, in accordance with Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement. Article 5 of the Government's proposal states that Article 13(2) shall apply. The law on public procurement, a valid law, means from 2002, the number "6,000,000" is replaced by "12,000,000". In the position of the 2nd member of the Law, it is said that the competitive documentation for public procurement of goods and services with a value greater than 6,000,000 dinars, i.e. for public procurement of works with a value greater than 120,000,000 dinars, the contracting officer also prepares in a foreign language commonly used in international trade. I have submitted this amendment for the simple reason that we have already had the practice to apply this method in line with the assessment of the increase in the price index in the Republic of Serbia for 2003. With this amendment, I propose that this increase be not as the government has proposed -- from these 6,000,000 to 12,000,000, but to be a proportional percentage of the price increase in the Republic of Serbia, and since the percentage of the increase in the index is known, it is well calculated and published in the Official Journal, to be an increase of 6,000,000 to 7,000,000. That million dinars fits that assessment of the price growth index. My amendment would refer to it instead of being 6,000,000, to be 7,000,000, not 12,000,000, as the government has suggested. You see, since I came out for the first time, I have to remind myself, I have this obligation for the citizens of Serbia: it is not good that we have put together a set of these economic laws that we are considering in the package in a joint debate. Look at the wonders, this joint debate proposal has been going on since G17. Someone has been in a hurry to pass these laws as soon as possible and I notice, this time since I've been an MP, when it comes to a set of laws relating to the Ministry of Finance and Mr Dinkic, the G17 Group of MPs plus is very active. When it comes to some other laws, they are inactive and as if they are not involved in the debate and in the work of this Parliament. I'm sure you agree with one more finding, all of you as far as you are here – that the adoption of these important laws or amendments and the addition of the law should not be done in the package. They must go into discussion individually, studioically, in detail, and primarily professionally, because of the very quality of the adoption of these laws. It's our duty, not our hurry. The people look closely at it and follow it and he will quickly give his judgment on it. This same people often say, "What is the haste, and all that is brought in haste is short." And so these amendments and additions to the laws that we are considering will be short-lived. It is not good for Serbian citizens, both people and voters who see it closely. Believe me, they're taking their judgment slowly. Another illogicality exists, the government's proposal to amend and supplement the set of these laws is to supplement the amendments. The amendments we make from the SRS parliamentary group are certainly of quality and it is absolutely impossible that no amendment from a bunch of amendments we have given has been accepted. I know this amendment will not be accepted either, as it is not accepted on the Finance Committee, but it is our obligation to participate... (President: Time sir. )......................................................................................................... in this debate, and no one can accuse us of not participating and obstructing Parliament's work. (President: Time, time, time, Mr. Squirt, seven minutes is already, finish, please.) Forgive me, Mr. President, this is the first time I've called... (President: Please, I have extended the time by this principle. Here you go. ) Many amendments to this law and those of the past have just been made by you from the majority coalition in this congregation. Yesterday I had in hand and amendments to the government; the government that submitted the bill also gave amendments. I think someone's in a hurry, or it's something else. It's about, I said ten times that the people would hear it, not because of you, sir, I didn't say your name, it seems to me that the mentors of the West read that law late and you have to with your amendments to enter the provisions they have stated. I'll finish, thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. (President: Thank you, eight minutes is up. Thank you. There'll be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2931	It's all right, it's all right. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svetović and Slavoljub Matic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2932	My intention is not, of course, to prove that MPs of the ruling coalition have their own activity, and especially not to prove it to Mr Markovic who yesterday showed his activity through amendments to the Insurance Act, where, for example, by burying words they thought they were helping their presidential candidate. It's their style and let's keep it their style. This amendment, in particular, is trying to stimulate those legally operating by the state under the Public Procurement Act to support it. That's the intention of this amendment, who's been reading, and I hope the MPs and MPs of the opposition have read it, and I hope it has support. I'll read it, and it'll be perfectly clear to you, I'm doing this for the public. Therefore, Article 14 is amended and reads as follows: "The right to participate in the proceedings shall have a domestic or foreign legal or natural person if: 1) is registered for the performance of an appropriate activity with the competent authority; 2) it is not within five years prior to the publication of a public call by means of a judicial or administrative decision of a judicial or administrative authority punishable for the criminal activity, commercial offence or infringement from the area covered by public procurement, or if it is not subject to a judicial or administrative measure to prohibit the exercise of public procurement activities; 3) it has settled the tax, contributions and other public taxes in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia; 4) has the applicable authorisation of the competent authority for the exercise of the public procurement, and such authorisation is provided for by a special regulation; 5) it has the necessary financial and commercial capacity available; 6). "We have had a request from people who want to legally work to pay those taxes that the state requires of them and to have one normal treatment, not to compete in public procurement competitions with unfair competition. This amendment simply supports such people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2933	Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2934	I signed up for the replica. I'm not clear on the position of my colleagues, and I'd like you to give him the opportunity, Mr. President, to explain to me what amendment I've submitted to which I wanted to bury, as he said, or I don't know either, some excess words. So, I'd like to ask my colleague to explain this, and I'll come out after that, because I'm going to report for the next amendment as an authorised representative of the Parliament Club. Of the five laws you have proposed, we support three. We've only given the number of amendments to one. The reason is that we believe that the solution you have suggested about the type of surveillance is not good. I'm the minister, if you listened yesterday, he said he's having second thoughts between you and our proposal. The minister said it took a long time, that hesitant. All our amendments were focused on three points. One is a system of surveillance, Article 18 and beyond, and that set of 17 amendments, where we worked out the existence of the Privatisation Agency, because we noticed a provision which, I must admit, is not clear to us. Why it was introduced, when it exists precisely in the Company Act, Article 400a, and you have put in place a provision that is quite inaccurate and under which the Government could take control of the insurance companies, practically, immediately after the entry into force of this law. The third set of our amendments referred to the specialisation of insurance companies, insurance organisations. We felt that the deadline until 2005 was short and we suggested that this deadline be longer so that our societies, or domestic entities, could be able to prepare as much for the life insurance competition as possible, because it now participates with 1% of the total number of insurances. Now, Mr. Matić, be kind and tell me why you have, I must say, offended our parliamentary group. I would like you to explain your position to us, because of the total number of laws that you have proposed as the ruling majority in this assembly supported a significant number of DSs, because no amendment that has submitted DS is of such a nature that we ourselves would not have included it in our legal proposal that by any chance we had the opportunity to be in power. We're not the government, we're the opposition, but I think we're both being constructive and dignified. No DS MP has been warned in this House, we have never timed out, and we have never offended the president of parliament or any member of the ruling coalition. We're just looking for a little bit, which is to have at least 80 of your deputies present. So we're not even looking for a quorum when you fall to 70, just so much we're asking you to listen, because we're trying to talk about what's the point of the agenda. So, please tell me where we buried Parliament yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2935	Thank you. There's no replica on the line, I'm sorry. This was a replica, Mr. Matice. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? What can I do for you, by amendment? The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2936	I'm sorry that Mr Matic came out, but here's the chance, because every MP, by changing the Rules of Procedure, can talk about the amendment. I expect he'll tell us one time what he thought he said earlier. As regards the amendment to Article 14 paragraph 1(2), after the word "criminal action", it is stuck and they add the words "business crime". Why did we add a business offense? We believe that participation in the procurement process should be conditioned by means of the documentation to prove that there is no punishment and that there is an economic offence. It's a normal, logical amendment. The fact that you have left out your words – a business offense is a sort of failure. Please accept this amendment. It is necessary that those who have been punished for a commercial offence be mentioned here, too, that special attention be paid to them. to be treated in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2937	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Now the replica, the patient saved, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2938	When I mentioned you I was referring to your yesterday explaining the difference between NBS, its way of controlling and controlling insurance companies and agencies that you offered under one amendment, and since NBS appears in some 15 members of the law, then you explained the difference 15 times between those two models.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2939	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure? Article 100? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2940	Here, I'll explain what's going on right now. So, I wasn't talking about the seven amendments at all. Mr. Matić, please understand, so I don't repeat what I said. The issue of security oversight is quite a broad question. So, we had three species and a fourth that Mr. Dinkic said as a third, and then we switched to an integrated surveillance system, and it's normal that whenever we had the chance in that discussion, and when a new fact came up, we went out to explain it. Do you think that's a bad thing? You want to take a look? I didn't go out six or seven times for a pay phone. I agree with you not to go out for every amendment, but I haven't gone out for everyone, we can take a look, and all I've been going out for is my duty. I didn't come out of respect for other MPs, at the very least, because I think it was enough for them to understand what my views were. Everything else would be too much. Unfortunately, no matter how much I went out, it wasn't worth it, obviously, that MPs would consider our suggestions a little more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2941	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2942	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem with law-making, including today, is that they are brought in most cases by emergency procedure, and we have to do some work later, or change what is done in previous adoption as a failure. In Article 14 paragraph 1(2), the amendment and addition of this law provided that, within two years, all public procurement participants must provide evidence that they have not committed a criminal offence or any commercial offence. I consider this amendment and the addition of the code member very small, and I suggest that this deadline be extended to five years, because in relative times, which lasts up to 10 years, in criminal responsibility, half of it is five years, and I believe that in this time all public procurement participants need to make an account, that is, to be a reminder to them, if they will participate in public procurement in the future, to behave properly in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2943	Thank you. Is there anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milutin Svetović and Slavoljub Matic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 20th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2944	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which reads as follows: in Article 20, paragraphs 1 and 2, the words "fully domestic" are replaced by the words "at least 50% of domestic origin". The government's intention to introduce preferences for domestic producers ensures their competitive ability should be welcomed and our parliamentary club welcomes such intention. By both criteria, and according to the minimum price and the best economic offer criterion, where it figures 20, so in the case of 20% higher prices and 20 weight points less than the proposal of the best foreign bidder, the domestic producer has the advantage and I think these numbers have been carefully measured. However, the criterion that the product should be wholly domestic is excessively rigorous and the largest number of domestic producers, which are in competition with the foreign market, would essentially not be able to use this preferences. Even if at least one promil or one percentage of the side of the component is installed in that otherwise domestic product, it would make it impossible for the domestic producer to use this privilege. For this reason, we have suggested that the preferences are applied when it comes to the product of domestic origin in which the participation of domestic products is at least 50%. At the same time, I would like to refer to the amendment proposed by distinguished colleagues Salesovic and Matic from the DSS parliamentary group, which the Finance Committee has accepted. Namely, the Finance Committee has rejected my or our amendment, and has accepted an amendment in which the same words set out in Articles 1 and 2 of the proposed law - of all domestic origin, are replaced by the words - produced in the country. That's quite imprecise. This is understood by the promoters, and therefore, in their amendment to paragraph 3 they have proposed something that is unacceptable for our assembly, which is that making a final decision on this member and the conditions of use would be removed from the National Assembly and handed over to the finance minister. Here is the view – a new position of 9 is added to the same article, which reads: "The Minister of Finance is closer to regulating evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Articles 5 and 7 of this Article within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law." It is unacceptable for the Assembly to support such a proposal, for then we are handing over our powers to the minister. He would have to define the conditions in particular, as well as evidence of the fulfillment of these conditions. I think the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the DS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic quite precisely defines this area; in this way, as the National Assembly, we are the ones who fully define this preferences. In the light of their amendment, distinguished colleagues Matic and Svedovic use an argument that, in my opinion, more justifies the adoption of my or our amendment than the amendment they have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2945	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srjo Komazec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered to us for adoption. Article 30 of the proposed law reads - Article 79 adds a new position 2 which reads: "If the value of the procurement does not exceed the amount of three million dinars for goods and services, or 15 million dinars for works, the contracting authority may decide on the award of a public procurement contract, if it has obtained only one offer that is correct, appropriate and acceptable. "I believe that the amount of 15 million dinars for work is high, i.e. that it needs to be reduced to six million dinars, so my amendment reads - in Article 30, the amount of "150.000" is replaced by "6,000,000". The proposed changes in the value of works are narrowed down to the possibility for the contractor to decide on the award of a high value contract on public procurement, provided that he has obtained only one offer that is correct, appropriate and acceptable. The proposal itself reduces the possibility of speculation between the contracting authorities and bidders regarding the decision to award the contract, at least in cases where the amount of work exceeds six million dinars. Although this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, which was delivered to the Assembly, I expect the Assembly to vote in favour of my amendment on the day set for the vote, so that this poor bill can be improved as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2947	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2948	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said, the DS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic supports this bill. It is a law that continues those standards introduced by the previous government; the Public Procurement Act, as a standard, was introduced for the first time during the previous government and since most of these laws rely on these laws, then we see that the rule was not so bad. I think we'll remember it even more in the future. But it's no longer power, now it's opposition. Therefore, as an opposition, we are trying to correct some of our amendments to the bill in the way we think we should. In Article 48, we propose to add Article 2 which reads - The report referred to in Article 2 of this Article contains, in particular, information on: 1) to the total number of applications received for the protection of rights and, in particular, to the procedure before the decision on the award of a public procurement contract and after the decision has been taken, as well as the number of rejected and rejected claims; 2) to the number of cancellations of the public procurement contract and the reasons for the cancellation, as well as to the stage in which the procedure has been annulled. So, this solution, we determine some of the basic data that should contain the Commission's annual report. Of course, since we put the word "particularly", it means that it can contain other data. I suggest you adopt this amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to return to my previous amendment. I didn't want to take the time to talk about him. That's Professor Zivkovic's amendment. I think it would be a good idea for you to adopt that amendment. The privileged position for domestic goods, for domestic producers, we have already foreseen in our bill of law that we adopted here in the previous meeting. The truth is, we can say that there are some small problems about just defining the concept of what percentage a domestic commodity is or isn't. There are problems, but we still shouldn't let the Minister of Finance handle this area any closer. In any case, regardless of the amendment by colleagues Svetovic and Matic, I think we should consider this amendment. Zivkovic and that he should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2949	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does one by Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I'm obliged to read you a notice before we move to the next item of the agenda. On the basis of Article 38(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that Bojan Pajtic has been authorised as representative of the DS parliamentary group for the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for points 6 and 7. On the basis of the same member, Jovan Todorovic was authorised in the absence of the SPS parliamentary group president for these points. For the SRS, for the same agenda points, according to the same member, MP Veroljub Arsic was authorised. I think it is right to move on to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Before that, I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2950	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon. Please confirm the quorum. We have a quorum, and there are 92 MPs present in the O.R. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLACES ON ACCISES AND PORES PROCEDURE AND THE INSTITUTION OF THE INDUSTRY (joint principle search) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 90, a joint principled review of the laws proposed by Parliament of the People's Republic of Goran Paunovic. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who belong to no parliamentary group, and these are three Social Democratic Party MPs, after five minutes, according to article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two laws before us: one supplement to the Excise Act, and the other is an addition to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Let me briefly explain both proposals. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, as you know, this law has already been amended two or three weeks ago here in parliament, but some of the solutions adopted simply lead to disproportion in charge and in the structure of excise duties on certain products, primarily diesel fuel and oil derivatives. As you know, the National Assembly has adopted an increase in excise duty on oil, gasoline and other processing products, all except diesel, by three dinars per litre, and on the other hand there has been a discrepancy between the retail price of motor gasoline and diesel fuel that does not exist in any other country, in the environment or in Europe. As a result, the government proposes to increase the excise duty on diesel fuel by 2.9 dinars per litre, so that the current 13.76 dinars would be 16.66 dinars. This means an additional 3.5 billion dinars for Serbia's budget and on the other hand will allow for equalisation of relations, a return to the old relationship between the price of motor gasoline and diesel fuel. On the other hand, we took the opportunity to specify also Article 12 of this Law, where we accepted an amendment related to low-alcohol drinks, because there are drinks that have not been produced in our country so far, and many manufacturers announce that they will start production, some this month, some in the coming months. These are low-alcohol drinks up to 7% of alcohol, which are not classified by the Excise Act anywhere, and at this time we suggested that they be classified in the same way as beer, so that such drinks should be paid for the same excise duty as they are paid for beer. If these drinks were not classified, which have up to 7% alcohol, they would be subject to excise duty as heavy drinks, which would significantly burden the cost of producing these drinks and thus make domestic production incomprehensible. Also, we specified Article 13, where excise duty is imposed on fruit juices, given that this assembly adopted three weeks ago the introduction of excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages, but excluding fruit juices. So, imports of non-alcoholic beverages have already been subject to a change in this parliament and an excise duty of 5.42 dinars per litre is already being paid. We propose to introduce a excise duty on 3.5 dinar fruit juices per litre, therefore lower than non-alcoholic other drinks, to protect domestic fruit growing and domestic fruit juice production. By the way, I'd like to say that this government's tax policy is based primarily on reducing taxes on production. As you know, this assembly has adopted a government proposal to abolish the income tax, which has been in effect since July 1st of this year. Also, we will soon propose a significant reduction in corporate tax and of course we must increase excise duties as in other countries, to tax consumption in order to finance the necessary public expenditures. However, in addition to the legal provisions, the government has done a lot to improve the control process both in the tax administration and in customs, so in the first four months of this year the total collection of public revenues, I am taking the opportunity to inform the esteemed MPs of this data, increased 21% compared to the same period last year. In doing so, the most increased excise duty on tobacco processing, precisely because of stronger control and customs and tax administrations – 41.3% is the increase in excise duty on cigarettes compared to the same period last year. Sales tax has also increased by 21.6 per cent compared to the same period last year. This is one part and the result of the growth of traffic in trade and the result of the recovery of production. Because, as you know, in the first quarter, industrial production grew by 11.7 percent compared to the same period last year, so we can expect with certainty that this year's social product will grow far beyond what we have projected by the budget plan for this year. Instead of projected 4.3 per cent of GDP growth, the social product this year is growing at least six per cent. This will be the highest rate of growth of social gross product in the last ten years, because we expect a double-digit growth in agricultural production and expect a solid, significant growth in industry, since we had a three-percent industrial production drop last year. This year, in the first quarter, production growth is 11.7%, which means that by the end of the year, even if such a favourable trend does not continue, the lowest possible growth in production will be about 8%. With such growth, the social product will grow over 6 per cent this year, which means that finally the economy has begun to recover. We will also seek the measures that we have implemented so far and the laws that this assembly has adopted on a proposal from the Government so far, to continue this positive trend. To further accelerate financial discipline, because our goal is to curb the grey economy from the current 50 per cent participation in the social gross product, how much we estimate that, at a reasonable 20 per cent, we will strictly implement the law, which I hope the MPs of this House will adopt, which is an amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. In fact, so far it has been observed in the practical application of this law that there are a lot of illogical provisions that complicate tax collection procedures and allow tax evasion. That is why amendments and additions to this law are predicted to be so-called. the tax identification number, which each taxpayer, a legal person, has, must be entered in the order requiring the bank to pay taxes and successive tax duties. Also, large taxpayers, under the new law, will file a tax application to the organisation's tax administration unit for all types of tax for which the organisation's unit performs tasks under the authority of that tax administration. The aggregate tax application for tax after deduction will be submitted to the tax administration once a month, within five days of the end of the month, especially for each payment made in the previous month. In this way, the way in which taxes are paid is specified. The biggest newspaper in this law is a significant tightening of sanctions for those who avoid tax returns or who do not pay taxes, as well as for those who illegally store goods, who use so-called goods. "black warehouses" to avoid paying to the state of customs and tax. As far as criminal measures are concerned, the current provisions of the law provide that a fine of five per cent of the amount required to pay and at least 2,000 dinars is prescribed for the untimely submission of the tax application. It's a small punishment, because five percent of the commitment is caused by legal persons and citizens who are not safe to avoid tax obligations. The new proposal provides for a fine of double-to-twenty fine compared to a tax evasion to a non-taxable amount to be tolerated. So not five percent relative to the amount, but two to twenty times the amount, and at least 5,000 dinars. So, if someone gets two dinars, they'll pay 5,000 dinars in fines. It may be small, but I think it's "real," as you might say. A fine of at least 2,000 dinars shall be prescribed for the non-temporary submission of the tax application. Criminal charges for illegal storage of goods are also prescribed. As you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance began a month ago to implement a plan called "TR 84". The plan aims to curb all types of smuggling in Serbia, from cigarette smuggling, which is the first to be hit and the first results are already seen, as tax collection, primarily cigarette excise, rose 30% in April compared to March after this action. Then, to the smuggling of white techniques, skin and shoes, textiles and all other products. During this period alone, 233 counts for tax offences and 174 criminal charges were filed on the basis of serious offences. 28 phantom companies were found and temporarily taken away from various technical, sports equipment, clothing, shoes, cut construction, southern fruit, worth 687 million dinars. Also, illegal warehouses are currently being controlled and are being discovered where goods are being distributed without payment of customs duties and taxes. In other words, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants this law to further tighten financial discipline, that those citizens who pay their obligations in order to sleep peacefully, but that those who make up unfair competition and who do not pay government or customs, or taxes and do both criminal acts and unfair competition to those who pay taxes, finally introduce order and that they also contribute to their country with tax taxes. As you know, it is the only way to ensure adequate financing of pensions, unemployment benefits, social benefits and other public expenditures financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is why I am convinced that this assembly will support both of these laws, because we believe that the orientation towards reducing costs and taxing production, and increasing excise duties on consumption, is the only orientation that can revive production, which only in the long term can improve population standards. Also, we expect another law to come upon your support. These are significantly more penalties for tax evasion, because in the context of the tax administration it is the payment of fines. We hope that the judiciary will also function more effectively and that, apart from the collection of fines, those who have hidden huge amounts of tax, who have so far had political protection, will finally end up in court and prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2952	Do the representatives of the committees want a word – the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2953	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have two seemingly technical laws ahead of us, but let me, from the point of view of the SPS and our parliamentary groups in this assembly, present several principles and several, I think, essential remarks on the proposed amendments and additions to these laws. First of all, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Procedure, there is no doubt that each country's top goal, including ours, is to make as much payment as possible of the corresponding fiscal incomes, start with taxes, contribute to other expenditures, and taxpayers in Serbia are obliged to pay them into the republican budget. We are not the first country to invent such or similar the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it began a long time ago, another 1806; let's say, in France, the Budget Charge Act was passed. A budget in French, as you know, means -- a bag, though, I don't know if it's a female or a male, but it's the goal of every country's tax charge as high as possible and as appropriate to the needs of the state, no matter what kind of budget giving it is. There is no doubt, too, that the state of Serbia has not yet reached the level of these developed countries such as France and that we do not have a high degree of financial discipline in our country. What falls into my eyes, as a man who sees every law from the point of view possible in real life, is the next few facts. I have the impression that even the one who proposed the basic text of this Tax Ademineration Act, and the previous government and the previous finance minister, Mr Djelic, did not care enough about the need for taxpayers and states in this tax procedure and before the administration to be fully equal. I'm under the impression that even this ministry didn't care enough about taxpayers having to be equal with the state at the very least, what is it about first? Take, for example, Article 2 in this Proposal to amend and supplement the Tax Administration Act, where the period of 15 days extends to 25 days, in order for the tax authority to reach a solution on the refund of the wrong or more tax charged or on the exercise of the right to refaction. Please, if you think twice about it, then you will realize that real life in tax administrations is saying that we have unscheduled employees and that within 15 days they are not able to bring a solution that could be wrongly charged or more taxed in the form of a refaction return to the taxpayer. Now, in fact, by this change of law, we amnesty of irresponsible tax officials and extend their time from 15 days to 25 days, please, to bring this solution to the return of taxes. I think at least that's incorrect. When it comes to the fact that every taxpayer who is late in carrying out his tax obligations, which will say payments to the state, is obliged to pay the interest corresponding to the Escot rate of the National Bank by 15 points. In practical life this means that the taxpayer who is late in paying taxes or other taxes to the state basically pays 25% of the interest on those delays. On this side, you can see that the state extends itself to a deadline in which it will bring a solution to the refund of more or less wrongly charged tax. They are also not correct in any of the provisions concerning the moment when the tax return begins, or interest for the benefit of the taxpayer, so you will see the following cases: the first is an old solution, this minister, or the ministry, did not touch it, but it is said that the interest starts to be calculated only after 30 days of the day when the tax has been paid more or wrongly. It is then proposed, in addition to this law, that, when an act is adopted to repeal a wrongly established tax or a solution, or another act which has been established, only from the date on which it is delivered to a legal or natural person as a taxpayer, the account of interest shall begin in favour of that taxpayer. I think that, if you want me to jargonically express myself, it's not fair, it's not fair to the citizens, it's not fair to wait for them, it's to charge for everything that can be charged, and now that you're supposed to make these citizens feel the real damage resulting from the lack of their financial resources, then that principle doesn't apply. See the provision relating to the forced sale for the collection of the tax obligations of a legal or natural person, so when you owe the state 100,000 dinars, and your property sells for 150 thousand dinars, then this surplus of 50,000 dinars of the state is obliged to return only after the end of 30 days from the day she was charged by selling it and so sold the property and when it basically settled. Another provision is in my opinion, I cannot say incorrect, but it is completely out of line with the government's strategy on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and is based on exceptions, which were referred to by Mr. Minister, which refers to the provisions of the proposed Article 7 of this Law, where it is said that the person who did not settle his tax obligations to the state cannot be the founder of a new enterprise or business. Does that remind you of any previous provisions, namely, when as citizens we were denied to register a passenger car, to get a driver's license or any other personal document, unless we settled our tax obligations to the state. This is where the promoter went further, so he said, and the legal entities that did not comply with the obligation, whose founders of these natural persons, they are also hit, the pai founders of these companies, companies with limited responsibility or actions, cannot set up other legal entities until these obligations are settled. Finally, in order for tax discipline to be expected, we must have such a tax policy that will not stimulate tax evasion and concealment. Look at our taxes. Of course, I don't criticise Mr Dinkic, but I criticise the previous government. We have the most taxes, I'd say, in Europe. I'm not talking about contributions. At this point, the amount of contributions charged by legal persons on the basis of earnings paid to employees is simply necessary, in order to charge funds, pensions, health, social, etc. Look at the service tax, it's 20%, and you won't find a 20% service tax anywhere in Europe. On the other hand, you have a general commitment to promote service activities, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises and to develop actions. See the way tax obligations are determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2954	Excuse me, are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2955	Yeah, I'll use it. You have a situation today that all legal entities when they account for their tax obligations to the state go from invoiced realisation, not from charged, but from invoiced. So, you can have your buyer and you can not pay, but you account for the tax on traffic to the state you have to pay. If you don't do it within the appropriate time limit, you'll have criminal provisions, you'll have so-called. the side tax, which is now called in this law here, and you'll have a problem. The fact that all economic operators, or most of them, are inequitable, do not have enough money, does not interest the state at this time. Look, let's say, shops. I talked about it in the last term when it came to the fiscal registers and the obligation of anyone who owns a store and who has a small or large sale to install a fiscal register. You have a problem today, first of all, that there are no fiscal registers on the market and that we can't even fulfil that legal obligation. Secondly, you have a fact that in my people, at least in Loznica, it's called veracity. A trader in those small, especially poor suburban settlements and villages, who does not give goods on religion no customers, because his customers are pensioners, who receive twice a month three or four thousand dinars, his customers are peasants, or farmers, who from case to case come to some dinar. The traffic must be recorded by that buyer, must be accounted for and accounted for by the sales tax in that account must be paid to the State. Otherwise, they are subject to such sanctions that I would not want to be in the skin of any taxpayer who will have to pay such fines. So, what am I talking about here? The cause of all problems is fiscal policy, tax and tax-paying techniques. The state must make a full tax reform, starting with a reduction in tax levels to allow all taxpayers not to cheat on the state without undue need. Why do I say it without a continual need? Because all taxpayers will never come to be disciplined and accountable to the state. In this regard, it is also likely that the provisions of this law, or proposed amendments, that say, will not be announced in the future. field control of legal persons because it turned out to be a bad practice. When you are informed that it will come to you then and then in control, then you are supposed to make appropriate marifetteluke or stores and prevent the tax authority, or financial police, from establishing that you have eventually failed the tax. I can accept that as a temporary measure, maybe by the end of the year, maybe by the end and next year, but it can't be the general definition of our government, or the Ministry, or any government. This developed world is doing exactly the opposite, informing the taxpayer that it will come under control on that day and there are also high penalties threatened. I know many of my business partners from abroad who are very afraid of the arrival of these so-called so-called business partners. The funding in their rooms, and it doesn't occur to them that in such situations they're committing any kind of crime, not to say criminal acts, but also to misdemeanors. From that point of view, I can support the government's commitment to tighten financial discipline, but it must understand the following, that our economy is sick and it takes a lot of medicine to make the economy better, and that one of these laws is actually one of the drugs for financial indiscipline. I'm afraid it's too strong a cure. A drug too strong, as you know, to kill a patient very easily. Please, the penalties proposed not to increase the price to a little over the last two years, but to increase by 150%. Something that should have been paid as a punishment that is also astronomical, 400,000 dinars, is now being paid 1,000,000. What was paid 20,000 dinars is now paid 50,000, at least according to this proposal, etc. I don't think that punishments should exist, but I think these penalties are unbearablely high and there will be very few of those legal entities that will be able to pay these penalties without going bankrupt and completely failing. So, I'm not in favour of amnesting those who are going to cover up the prose, who are going to commit to criminal actions something that is at the expense of the state, but the state must not only with the help of the Ministry of Finance and other authorities to find ways for those who belong to that gray area of 20 or 30% of the social gross product to be sanctioned by other laws and other measures of the state, and not just this way. So they are and must be an exception that will be sanctioned, and must not go too wide and bring a large number of taxpayers into such a situation that they cannot function. Take an ordinary citizen, even in the century, let's say we didn't get a solution to the property tax, and it's May 15th, to pay a second tranche of property tax for 2004. It is for me a comfortable and undisciplined relationship between the tax authority, and we are now extending time limits for certain provisions of this law or proposal. It just can't. I know you'll answer me, you've got a tax rate from the last 2003, pay your fees based on it. There's going to be a change in the amount of that tax, and that's why, as a citizen, I'm going to come in late, I won't pay enough or I won't pay within the deadline, so I'm going to have to pay the right amount of interest. This has to be arranged in a more comprehensive way. I'm not saying the Ministry could have done all this through these changes right now, but one of the jobs of this ministry right now must be a comprehensive tax reform and a comprehensive reform of functioning and tax administration and tax administration. Finally, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Excise Act, it's a little unsupervised. At the previous session, we adopted an amendment that does not allow for an increase in the excise duty on diesel fuel. I can understand the minister, who says, is, it is minus 3.5 billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This means that there was not enough coordination and that at that time no one followed the situation in this congregation. We have such a Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, this is important, today we're talking about amendments, and in three days we're voting on them. No one alive in this room, not even the amendment promoters, knows what amendment they're voting on at that moment. So it's not possible to decide anything three days later. We used to have practice, the minister accepts or doesn't accept the amendment at the scene, and the amendment is immediately declared and we know what we did. This is what makes mistakes that, firstly, sound politically bad, and it is important for politicians to have a good echo in the people. Second, they're causing damage to the budget. Third, you are now returning everything to the beginning, which is difficult to perform, because finally someone will wonder what this National Assembly is doing. In this regard, just one note, we have made it possible for the government to obtain regressed fuel for 30 litres per hectare in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So nine dinars, and now we're going to cut that down by three and he's going to have six left, and I'm warning you of one fact present in life. In order for the farmer to exercise that right, he has to take out the property list at the Catastrian Administration, and that list costs 200 dinars. So 30 times six is 180 dinars, that leaf costs 200, and only when we're talking about one hectare... (Chairman:Time. )......................................................................................................... I lost my regression. Not to talk about what I spent all day in some administration, some services, waiting and losing an entire village or peasant wage, whatever you want, so I took the charm away. What's my suggestion? Mr. Minister, with the people responsible for the job, sees that such beliefs, such documents, which will serve the exercise of some right of peasants for the realisation of this law, are not paid or charged.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2956	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Bojan Pajtic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2957	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, are two groups of reasons why DS cannot support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. One of them's legal reasons. The return of the law on which the Assembly was defined three weeks ago and the return to a declaration of the provisions on the increase of excise duties rejected by the Assembly is essentially devising the institution of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has very clearly defined which excises it accepts and how it wants to build a tax system in this country, so returning to the National Assembly correction exam is certainly not a good signal if we want to build parliamentaryism in this country. Intricacy when defining the reasons for emergency proceedings and continuing insistence on an emergency procedure, which is restrictive because it does not give sufficient time to prepare the amendments. It doesn't give enough time to look at the bill, especially when you have 10 laws on the agenda in one session, is something that is a feature of all the current draft laws, where an emergency procedure is defined. The emergency procedure of the Rules of Procedure foresees in extremely rare cases, when human health or life, country security, organ work and organisations are at stake. The urgent procedure practically reduces the rights of MPs, i.e. time limits. It seems an exception to those rights of MPs that they, according to the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution, have, which is the right to get familiar with the bill's proposal, the right to look at all the bill's proposals and propose amendments or amendments to the law. Vacatio legis, i.e. the deadline within which the law enters into force, is not an accident for the constitution and dimensioned for eight days. Thus, the Constitution says that the law enters into force at the earliest eight days since its publication in the Official Messenger. Both the law that is currently on the agenda will enter into force unless these provisions are amended, and I do not believe that there is a mood in that direction directly, that is, the day after the publication in the Official Messenger. It's a principle that's inadmissible. Unacceptable in those kinds of laws that predict a dramatic increase in penalties for violations, an increase in excise duties or perhaps new excise duties, new taxes and new burdens for citizens and the economy of Serbia. Unacceptable because the deadline provided for by the Constitution, in order for citizens, natural and legal persons, to have enough time to apply that law, to get familiar with the provisions of the law, to adapt their business to that law. Especially when in a dramatic way, it means up to a million dinars, you increase the fines for legal persons in the case of certain violations; especially when you predict excises that represent a huge burden for citizens' pockets, but also a huge burden for legal persons who in everyday business are unusually important whether diesel is more expensive or cheaper three dinars, or gasoline more expensive and cheaper five dinars. That's why there's a deadline. That is why there is this Vacatio legion, which is why the Constitution says – eight days. In this way, we practically jump Serbian citizens, overnight we impose taxes, sanctions, which will not be able to withstand the majority of legal and natural persons subject to the provisions of this law. The Serbian citizens were not told the truth until the end, when we voted three weeks ago on a proposal to amend the Excise Law. They were not finally explained that the increase in excise duties on gasoline would lead to a dramatic increase in gas prices, leading to a dramatic burden on every household in Serbia. That the practical driving of a motor vehicle will be a privilege only to the richer layers of the population; that the economy will be extremely burdened by such provisions of the law and new provisions, and that practically every citizen will pay that tax and excise tax in the purchase of each product, because of the price and bread structure, and milk, and juice, and food and white techniques the price of gasoline enters, the price of diesel and dramatically increases the price of these products. This is not only a burden for citizens but also a great burden for Serbia's economy. If we want to give a momentum to Serbia's economy, this is the last way it can be done. What is absolutely certain is that – it does not require factories and legal persons in Serbia to increase this type of excise duty. The minister said not to accept these provisions would. The proposal represents a minus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. But as folk representatives, first of all, we have to think about whether this bill will project a minus in citizens' pockets. I think this minus is going to be extremely large and it's certainly going to have a huge impact on the standard of citizens. That is why it is not acceptable to work on an emergency procedure, to add these and these points of the agenda, to discuss only five hours of five laws or two laws that are and how they affect the everyday lives of our citizens. Today we are discussing whether to increase the excise duty on diesel fuel by 2.9 dinars per litre. We're absolutely against it. We also tabled an amendment proposing that the legislation be deleted, i.e. not to continue to increase the burden on the standard of Serbian citizens. We are against this, and we believe that the reason for the urgent procedure in the adoption of this law, that the practical increase in these burdens results in market stability, is not correct and we think that it does not correspond to the truth and certainly does not correspond to what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. It is not certain that an explanation for an emergency procedure is possible in this way to enable the planned effects of the proposed measures, if it is very clearly defined that an emergency procedure exists to protect the life, health, safety of the country, so to protect the basic values of a society. We warned when budgeting that the government would try to glean from different sides a sufficient amount of money to finance the entire administrative apparatus and all needs of the users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We warned that the planned deficit would be unacceptable for the IMF. We warned that we would be in a situation that throughout the year we would have to patch up and supplement a package of tax laws and supplement fiscal resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, our appeals have not been welcomed, they have not been accepted, and now we have, for the second time in the last three weeks, this law before the National Assembly and I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will not accept such a defined imposition. We, as a parliamentary group, absolutely support those laws that are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. According to the previous agenda item, which included five laws, which is also unprincipled and unacceptable, we of these five accept three laws. We accept the law on the national corporation for the insurance of residential loans, the law on the Agency for Commercial Registers, and we also accept the law on the registration of business entities. These are the legal projects of the previous government, but regardless of whose projects they are, they are projects that are high-quality, consistent with international standards and international regulations, and it is secondary to who developed such legal projects. The most important thing is whether these legal projects are consistent and whether they protect the interests of Serbian citizens. In our deep confidence, these two draft laws do not protect the standards and interests of Serbian citizens. We have heard that the previous authorities can be criticised, or critical of excessive taxes. That's not acceptable, because taxes could have been reduced. So, for more than two months now, this congregation has been working. This assembly had time to pass the laws that the Constitutional Court had put out of force, it had time to pass the law on the rights of Hague indictees and there was a time, if you wanted, to cut taxes. You represent the majority, there's Rhodes, jump gentlemen, cut your taxes and let go of the previous government. The previous power is, what has been done has also been shown in parliamentary elections, whether justified or not, in any case, it is your responsibility to reduce taxes. There's no room for criticism. It is absolutely pointless now to criticise the previous government, unless some of the consequences of its work are irrevocable, and the adoption of tax laws not only is it not irrevocable, but within one day, if you are disciplined enough and sit from 10.00 to 1800 hours, they can be changed. The chronic problem with this parliament is that within the parliamentary majority, although the Rules of Procedure allow 47 MPs not to be in parliament, there is a secure quorum, the quorum is never practically available. (President: Excuse me, are you using for the next ten minutes?) I'll be done in 30 seconds. The second is the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We believe that the penalties for violations are dragonish, we believe that few legal entities will be able to withstand such penalties. If we say that a fine of 100,000 to a million dinars is fined for a violation of a legal person if the tax administration does not apply for registration within the prescribed time limit. So it's hard to imagine a legal person who at the moment can bear this kind of burden. Similar provisions apply to individuals. Therefore, a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 will punish a natural person who is not an entrepreneur, unless he or she informs or informs the tax administration within the prescribed time limit on a person who, as a non-resident, has authorised him to carry out transactions in respect of tax obligations. So, if we want to develop an economy and protect the standard of our citizens, we certainly need to sanction this kind of offence, but not in the way that we are going to destroy every legal person that comes under such sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2958	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2959	Ladies and gentlemen, we have again on the agenda of the Serbian Assembly of Excise Act on a proposal from the government. I think this is a bit of an insult to the National Assembly, because the National Assembly, as proposed by the previous law, in which the content is slightly changed than in the new proposal, does not differ significantly. As far as I was aware, just to deny the minister, 4.7 dinars were under the previous law an increase in excise duty on motor gasoline, and now it's slightly less. The diesel fuel was 3.4 dinars, now slightly less than that amount. Approximately, this whole story revolves around the same thing. Following a statement by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is now being demented by the minister here, recent fuel collection has caused disturbances in the oil market. That was why the Serbian government decided to increase the prices of motor gasoline and diesel fuel. Now, the minister told us that gasoline was collected because of the increase in excise duty, although he claimed, when we voted on the Excise Law, that the accumulation would not take place. Now the question is, why is the diesel fuel more expensive? The diesel-fuel excises aren't increased. However, I am inclined to believe that there is a certain possibility or desire for some kind of manipulation of information when it comes to the price of oil and oil derivatives. Also, the minister forgets that we discussed it three weeks ago, incomplete, so he says we've increased excise duties to other oil derivatives, which is not true. This assembly has freed the excises of mazuttes, jet jet fuel and motor oil. However, where the government of the Republic of Serbia is once again, the minister says there will be positive consequences, so there will be a drop in the price of these products; the NIS for now does not change those product prices. Because of all this illogicality, I believe that real fuel is more expensive only because of the disturbances of crude oil in the world market caused by the crisis in Iraq, the United States that are now trying to achieve some kind of interest there. In another part, I don't understand why the proposer of this law so much wants to insist on increasing the excise duty on motor fuels, because of all the oil derivatives, only these two derivatives are paid excisely. It may always be, on the grounds that there is a major disturbance in the price of oil derivatives, or motor fuels will not occur. In any event, the increase in excise duties may have consequences either by citizens or by NIS, under certain conditions already taking place on the market. For example, if diesel is collected, there must be an increase in the cost of agricultural production, and our agricultural production survives in extremely difficult conditions, so that it does not need additional fiscal burdens at all. Not to say that with extra burdens, farmers will reduce investment and already make small contributions, meaning, reduce, and thus the income that this country generates. The second consequence of the increase in diesel prices relates to an increase in the price of goods and passengers services, especially when it comes to goods. This is very important, because any increase in the transport of goods must cause disturbances in the market for consumer goods, i.e. to increase the price of individual and even all products on the market and thus to cause inflation. And in case the fuel doesn't pick up, and that can happen, for two reasons, it is one that the collection will be delayed until the election campaign is over, because of candidates representing more or less the ruling majority, Boris Tadic and Dragan Marsican. So, the fuel collection would be delayed, after the election, by publishing the results, on the one hand. On the other hand, if there is no change in the price of oil and oil derivatives on the market in a longer way, NIS will have to give up the works of its margins in favour of excise duty. The NIS, just a reminder, showed a surplus or profit of five billion dinars last year, which was paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is the owner of the NIS, as a dividend. Now the question arises -- why does the bill's proposer insist so much on budgeting, when he doesn't care if that money comes through excises or through dividends paid by NIS. Like the money he's getting, he should care. However, it does not matter to the NIS, because if NIS reduces its tax-reduced business, it will have to show a loss in one of its next final accounts, which can be covered by the Republic of Serbia's budget, specifically, precisely by these excise duties that we will charge. But now there's another consequence. NIS is beginning to lose value on the market, and it is possible with such a government that NIS is subject to privatisation. The question is, who is it in the interest of? There are many candidates who are in the interest of selling Serbia's oil industry for small money compared to its real value. They may have been candidates, and they participated in these precisely with Serbia's Oil Industry, Vuk Hamovic, the head of the financial Montenegrin mafia, Vojin Lazarevic, who have earned between 300m euros and 400m euros in suspicious electricity business, already known to this parliament. The story may have already been told by this speaker, but I would like to remind only when it comes to the fact that certain ministers, who were then vice-presidents of the federal government, and now vice-presidents of the republican government, are running around Serbia to explain to the people why the collapse has to be collected to cover the alleged cost of production. And now we see that the government has been pulling the skin off Serbian citizens' backs to get an extra profit that could buy the oil industry of Serbia under these conditions, for 300 to 400 000 euros, and its real market value is around 20m euros. When it comes to the alleged concern of Mr. Minister of Juice and the introduction of excise juices on fruit juices, and imports, allegedly due to the care of agricultural producers, specifically fruit farmers, the right to say, I can't believe it. The reason for this is that he is once again the vice-president of the federal government, and the current vice-president of the republican government, from the so-called. Experts' groups, cleared up with the old Yugoslavia, which had a kind of customs system, built some state union and respected the conditions of another member, Montenegro, when it comes to agricultural customs. If someone wants to make fruit juices, they don't have to take fruit from our producers at all, they can even import it from wherever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2960	Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2961	I'll use the next 10 minutes. Furthermore, the excise duty charged only on the type of origin of goods is contrary to the recommendations of the Council of Europe and of the European Union, and you are constantly referring to some of their directives. By introducing excise duties exclusively on import goods, you shall bring other goods into a privileged position, i.e. imported into a subordinate position. Such a policy, i.e. discrimination and protection of domestic products and domestic markets, is resolved in customs duties. However, because you have ruined the customs system, because you could not agree with Milo Djukanovic and his mafia, we now have very low prices of domestic agricultural products, which cannot withstand unfair competition from imports. Remember how many apples have been imported, how much other agricultural products have been imported, machine-cleaned meat, bananas, oranges, meat, milk, dairy, all at our expense; the eggs could not import, there is Dragoljub Markovic. At least she couldn't get past the government while she was past the government. You see how much these agricultural products are now imported and that bring down the price of the domestic agricultural product and, anyway, heavy domestic agricultural production are burdening us, so that in any case this won't give us the desired effects, at least when it comes to agricultural production. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Mr. Minister said these changes are aimed at making tax payments possible and improving as much as possible. To be even more ironic, this bill allows tax officials to make decisions on more paid or wrongly paid taxes for 25 instead of 15 days. What does it look like in practice? In practice, the most frequently wrong or higher tax paid occurs precisely when controlling tax inspections. Right then, if it's the tax police, if it's a market inspection, if it's any other authority that controls it, then there's a case like that. The most frequent tax police or any other competent inspection makes a solution based on a record, which has led to the alleged lack of tax being paid within seven days, to have the right to appeal within seven days, but that the appeal does not delay the conduct of the proceedings. Later, when the appeal turns out to be a taxpayer, not a tax collector, then he has to wait another month to settle on his request to get his money back. In practice, cases like this are extremely common and are often extremely large. The proposer prohibits the competent authorities from enrolling a legal person in a commercial register provided that the founder, whether a legal person or a natural person, did not pay the tax. It reminds me of a story a year ago when each of us, in order to register a car, had to extract tax confirmation, carry it to the Ministry of the Interior and prove that he paid taxes so he could settle his obligations. It seems to me that the promoter is not aware of the situation most of the businesses and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in, that often, despite their goodwill, they cannot pay their tax obligations, so often those who cannot pay their tax obligations depend on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and their irregular payments. If a man has decided to open up a small independent shop or a craft shop, he will have to wait for the state to pay him a pension or one of his relatives, so he can settle his tax obligations, so he can earn some extra money. In Article 66. The bill still stands for another provision under the old Djelic's law, which is that if the tax inspector in the course of the control has a reasonable doubt he has the right to impose a ban on the availability of money by the taxpayer and his immovable and immovable property. It's just that it's not clear where the law regulates what a reasonable doubt is based on which someone would rob the property of taxpayers. In article 83 and his achievements, Mr. Minister boasted greatly, says the costs of the infringement procedure determine the tax administration of 5% of the amount of fines imposed. Perhaps one of us thought it was okay, but there is a reason why it is not, because in the already existing law, Article 83(1) states that the tax liability is increasing by a special one-time tax on tax charges of 5% of the amount of income and unpaid funds. Now, on behalf of a misdemeanor procedure, which again leads a tax administration worker or a criminal judge, who lives right from the finance ministry's budget, sets out the costs for the 5% misdemeanor procedure and the cost of forced payment of 5%. Maybe someone says it's not much. It is a lot if you look at the provisions of this law later, where the proposer dramatically punishes the person of the taxpayer who did not report and did not pay the tax. I can't understand that someone might even report a tax on time, but they don't pay it in time, they pay two to ten times, plus five percent of the infringement procedure, plus five percent of the forced payment, just because maybe the taxpayer didn't have the money to pay the tax. It happens very often today. Extremely often companies pay contributions and pay salaries in four, five, six wars. It happens that taxes are paid in four, five, six wars, starting from the first, so when they're done. I am not in the interest of a taxpayer who, on time, declares and pays taxes within a reasonable period of time, being punished by the provisions of this law, especially in the light of the fact that for any untimely payment of tax, the administration charges an interest of 0.2 per cent per day. It's, as far as I know, on an annual level, with a calculation at the end of each month of the accounting period, about 80 percent a year. Who else in the world pays 80 percent interest on outstanding tax obligations over the course of one year? I think we're a single country in Europe, and probably in the world. Furthermore, Article 124 of the Law allows for the possibility for the tax enforcement officer to exercise field control on the spot, without any warrant. As far as it's known, in all legal proceedings, even the police can't carry out some controls without a court order, when it comes to certain objects. Another part, which I don't really understand, that the IRS is entitled to protective equipment. I don't know what kind of protective equipment this is, it's provided for in Article 162 of this law, and they probably need it just for that field control, when someone breaks into the house and hosts a bit of an awkward will, so wait nice and easy. Djelic tried to arm them and intercept people on the street. None of that went his way. (President: Time. ) These are the consequences when the debate on individual laws is brought together. Mr. Djelic has all of you here known nicknames precisely because of a policy like this. I wonder what kind of nickname Mr. Dinkic will get.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2962	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by SRS, DS – Boris Tadic, G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, and after him the Messenger of Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there are two laws in this package, I'm going to talk about the Excise Act. The Excise Act was on the Assembly agenda 20 days ago. Since we didn't vote at the time that this was what the proposer wanted, it's again today's law on jurisprudence. That's when I submitted the amendment, and most of the votes passed it, so that the diesel excise would not increase and diesel would remain at an old price. Today, when this amendment is back on the agenda, I haven't changed my mind. What I meant in this amendment back then, I'm thinking the same thing today. That's why I again submitted an amendment to delete the proposal to increase the excise duty on diesel fuel without staying on the current level. Some politicians in the campaign spoke – the most money we will single out for agriculture, and when the elections pass, they first increase the farmers' oil, without which no work can be imagined in agriculture. There are many reasons why this amendment, which does not allow for an increase in the excise duty on oil, is justified and just. Given the price of agricultural products in the last few years, which has not been increasing already, there is no need to increase the price of oil. The farmer's payload is getting smaller. If excise and oil prices increase, agricultural production will be invaluable. So far, oil has been used in companies and in production, which can cause the collection of all products on a chain basis. The only reason the finance minister points out is to fill the deficit in the budget and if it stays like this, there'll be a bigger difference between gasoline and oil, or, as the minister said the other day at Bellama in Nis, it's like sewing your pants and sewing one pair of socks and not another. I'm afraid, Minister, that we'll start sewing pants without socks. On 5 November 2003, before the elections, the previous government put the Excise Act procedure, which was not discussed in the Assembly, but was divided by MPs and we have it in the material. Djelic suggested that the gas tax be 24.59, and for oil 15.25 for this year, and your proposal is 27.50 and oil is 16.76. Since last time I put in an amendment that adopted this assembly, you've reduced 10 pairs and proposed a 16.66-dollar excise. Compared to the previous government, you proposed a bigger oil excise for 1.5 dinars. Is that the famous "better we'll do than the previous government"? I know you're going to say that you've provided regressed fuel for agriculture. Yeah, that's true, but it's not enough. The promoter probably doesn't know about agriculture and how much oil the farmer spends in a year. It's not just a field you're going to go once, you're going to plow it, and eventually you're going to go and pick up the offerings. Njiva doesn't want a guest, she's looking for a worker and a full-time presence. I'm not gonna count how many times it takes for a farmer to go to the field and all the work he's doing with the machines. It is only true that an average farmer spends 300-400 liters of oil over the year, on average, for three hectares he gets 90 liters of regressed oil, which means that 90 liters will get at a cheap price and 300 liters per price. Is that how you think we'll be able to develop agriculture? It's all clear here. The minister wants an increase in oil excise duty to fill the budget deficit. Why did you hit the farmers? Why didn't you take from the others a little, why just the peasants? Why didn't you take a little from the bankers, why so many directors and agencies, directors' departments, agencies' agencies. What budget can that hold? How many directors were established and how many employees were employed in them? On one side, production workers are reduced, halls are empty, and workers are growing in state institutions. It's an expensive country, and it can't stand business or agriculture. I know the minister will say, we'll give credit to farmers, farmers, and it's known who can come up with such a loan. I'm afraid these loans will get rich without getting to the right farmers. The government and the minister could find a solution for oil, because there are many other solutions, there are different opinions and suggestions; for example, to find a way to increase the amount of regressed oil for farmers, to get each liter used for agricultural works during the year at a regressed price. So, for farm processing, no liter should be paid at more expensive prices with increased excise duties, and that the oil used for cars would not be lost much. The transport oil consumption would achieve a figure that would fill the budget deficit, given that the Olympics in Greece will be held this year, fuel sales will be increased. Finally, I am a national MP from Merošina, which is exclusively a agricultural municipality, where citizens live exclusively from agriculture, and by increasing oil excise duties, their investments in production would also increase, and there is no increase in agricultural products in buying and exporting. It's all at old prices. That's why I've submitted an amendment that I'm going to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2964	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic, he's not here. The word has a finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2965	Dear MPs, for this previous talk, let us indeed not use demagogue. If there's an increase in the excise on diesel fuel, everyone in town and the ones in the village pay. They are not farmers because of this burden, on the contrary, in the agrarian budget, which is otherwise three times larger than it was last year, there is a special item for regressing fuel for agriculture and that is one thing. The second thing, the following gatherings, they say; has anyone felt as much as you do in your speeches, an increase in excise fuel. That happened three weeks ago. How much did that affect the price rise, did you see that price rise? No, the overall effect of these measures, and of those previous and present ones, directly affects price growth with only 0.4%. Inflation in the first four months is 7.3%, meaning far below projected inflation in a year. Gentlemen, of course we should criticise the government in the first place, but Mr. Arsic cannot mention a 4.6 dinar figure of increasing excise duty; be fundamentally honest, tell the truth. Three dinars is an increased excise on fuel, not 4.6 dinars, and if you remember badly, look into the law. As for this current one, too, whether the MPs who have criticised this law forgot that this government has already abolished the income tax, it relieves the economy of seven billion dinars, so the effect of introducing these 2.9 dinars on diesel fuel is 3.5 billion of everything. And why is that? In order to compensate for the effect we have achieved by abolishing the income tax, i.e. Seven billion dinars, that they may expend the cost of production; so he cannot, as the people say, goat and money. On the one hand, we want to decommission production, we want our products to be competitive in the world, we want to increase exports, and on the other hand we want to finance pensions and benefits for unemployed and other public expenditures. And of what? Of course, from excises, because excises should be more involved in the overall budget structure than other public revenues. This government is actually going to put its strategy into practice. Greater taxation of consumption, and far less reduction of production costs, we will charge production. As for agriculture, the agricultural budget was never higher in Serbia than this year. On May 15th, agricultural loans start with interest of only 3% on an annual basis, for five years, with a grace period, so with a start-up period of one year. But don't be afraid, they'll be obtained exclusively by farmers, only by those who register to deal with agriculture, agriculture, livestock and other agricultural activities, and not by those who work half in the city and half in the country. Therefore, real agricultural producers will receive these loans and these interest rates will be lowest on the market and four billion dinars are allocated only to this programme, which will be realised by the end of the year. Also, it should not be forgotten that a tax on hunting weapons has been abolished, a tax on financial transactions has been abolished, a tax on motor oil and oil, a tax on cashew oil has been abolished, a tax on mobile phones has been abolished and many other taxes and taxes have been lifted that we have promised to abolish. All I'm asking is for honesty, tell me what's been lifted and what's been increased. Don't just talk about what's increased, because in order to achieve production discharge, consumption has to be a little more taxed by excise duties, but neither will inflation nor will it be an insurmountable obstacle. Look at the city, we're stuck in traffic cars and that's good. It's good that more people drive cars, and it's not good that they're busy. The crowds aren't just because the price of fuel is below the prices in the environment, but above all the traffic in big cities is not solved and it's an objective problem, but things need to be put in the right place, the way they are. So, the government will always be happy to receive reasoned criticism, but it cannot possibly agree with the lies, as radicals express them, or with demagogy, as we have heard from the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2966	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2967	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've turned my attention to the Minister yesterday to watch what he says about this pay phone, especially when he's explaining his laws. It happened on the Finance Committee that I had to have the minister of a certain provision of his law, he had to teach them by heart, to read. Now I'm going to have to read to him again the provisions of the law that was passed three weeks ago, and that's his law again. He says that motor gasoline has accumulated 3.00 dinars and I'm not telling the truth; the excise is increased. The proposal, the old excise solution, was 23.15 dinars. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, the proposed amount of excise duties for motor gasoline is 27.50 dinars, which is exactly 4.35 dinar per litre; the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 2 April 2004. The proposed price for diesel fuel, the old price was 13.00 dinars per litre, and it was proposed 16.76 dinars, and now Mr. Minister has reduced it to 16.66 dinars. Furthermore, it's not true that you've abolished the tax on motor oil, it's not true that you've abolished the mammaut tax, it's not true that you've abolished the gas tax, it's not true that you've abolished the tax on mobile phones and it's not true that you've abolished the tax on financial transactions. Maybe you've given some delayed deadlines when they'll be lifted, because they're supposed to be projected in the budget. Again, for those who have little longer memories, I was just an authorised representative of the SRS for the law on the abolition of the Financial transaction Tax Act. I was an authorised representative of the SRS for the law on the termination of the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing of goods. All these laws were given before the budget of the Republic of Serbia was passed, so you allegedly wanted and had a good will to abolish them, and why you didn't. Now we're going to say if it's going to be a year, since the deadline has been delayed by the end of this year, let's say whether or not the minister will abolish or amend the law, and then resume the extension of the individual tax regulations. When I list this, I have suspended the excise duties and I have no objection against it, but that's why, before you accuse the MPs of the SRS, I warn you, we're extremely well prepared for discussions, we're extremely good at studying the laws, and in the end we wouldn't be able to make it from 23 MPs to 82 if we weren't doing our job here in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2968	Thank you. The word has the finance minister, Mr Dinkic, the proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2969	So, the previous assembly, and I ask the other MPs to confirm or deny it, has adopted an increase in excise fuel only to three dinars, not 4.7 as much as you speak. The second thing, the oil excise has been lifted and it's been valid for eight days since you voted, so it's already in effect. The mobile phone fees have already been lifted, except Karic sent messages as if he had abolished the tax rather than the government. Whoever has cell phones received a message - this month, dear consumers are no longer paying mobile phone fees. That's because this assembly voted. All these taxes I said have already been lifted and are already in effect, except for the profit fund tax, which takes effect on 1 July and other than the financial transaction tax, which takes effect on 1 January 2005. Please, three dinars is just an increased excise on fuel, not a four point - as much as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2970	It's not a question of any replicas, of a proposing representative, and you're looking for a replica. Here you go. No one's stopping you, you're looking, you've got, you've got, you've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2971	He needs a minister to explain himself. So, on 2 April 2004, the Government of the Republic of Serbia concluded that, on the basis of Article 90(4), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 131. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a bill amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, proposing that, in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall bring an emergency procedure. Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, was appointed as a representative of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's when you suggested that the excise on motor gasoline be 4,76 dinars. Here's your bill. (Mladjan Dinkic: Three. All right, Mr. Minister is probably confused. It's not worth it. It's no longer true what's written. Don't trust people with your eyes, trust Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2972	All right. Thank you. The word is "Franislav Peric", a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Speaker said it was a demagogy, and I listen very carefully to the minister when he speaks here in the Assembly and when he appears on television. I don't know what demagogy is, and I get the impression that when I listen to him live in Switzerland: that everything's okay, there's money for everything, everything's going to be paid and there's solutions for everything, but it's not living like that, it's getting worse living in this country, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2974	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of Nadika Momir's be prepared. Mr. Ristic isn't here. The People's Messenger Nadica Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, these two draft laws provide continuity in taking measures to modernise our economic policy. I think it is very important that we do this modernization as soon as possible, so that we are able to, in accordance with our own experiences, but also the experiences of others, only make fine adjustments to the economic policy of the country. Here I want to separate the concept of modernization from the concept of reform, which, in itself, does not define the course of activity and does not have to by definition mean equating with modern. Let's just think of various reformers from different periods. Also, I want to separate the concept of modernization from the idea of ruralization, since I don't think we can have the ambition to plow with turbo-inject rala and ox, and therefore we need to define ourselves forward or back. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act has clearly defined objectives. Further reduction in the size of the grey economy, the achievement of major inflows into the Republic of Serbia's budget, harmonisation of excise policy with European Union standards and the excise policy of the Republic of Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2976	Sorry to interrupt. Could you get a little closer to the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2977	Proposing an increase in diesel excise duties will ensure a reduction in the distribution between the retail price of petrol and diesel fuel, which is higher in Serbia than in the countries in the environment, thus ensuring a more stable market for these products, while bringing the grey diesel economy to the lowest level. If someone wants these objectives and effects to oppose the fact that agriculture will be damaged, it must be remembered that in a constructive discussion, the facts must not be taken out of context, and the context is the measures of this same government and the Ministry of Finance that provide even a triple budget to farmers, which will dramatically increase the improvement rather than the loss. Practically speaking, for the first time, after who knows how long, the farmer opens up the possibility of taking credit and buying a new tractor, which is much more modern and uses much less diesel fuel than the previous old one, and that the difference in the price of several dinars per litre will be negligible compared to savings. We need to define whether we're going to give people a chance to work under some real-fashioned circumstances and to have support and a connection to the modern world, or we're going to give up this support for connections and go back to our specialties in the last 15 years, as the SRS wishes, and keep them in a seemingly good situation, providing them with cheap diesel fuel, if there isn't enough, and then getting it even more expensive through the gray economy. Just to get them to make grain for one dinar, then sell them bread for three dinars, and then, as Balašević says, travel Europe and don't wait for us anymore. The proposal to introduce an obligation to pay excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages and other products from imports – syrups, powder, fruit juices and fruit nectar – will allow for the acceleration of domestic production of these products. This is very much in line with the general definitions that domestic economy is engaged as much in real competitive conditions and I strongly support the Ministry of Trade's campaign under parol to buy our own. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration has the following objectives: speeding up procedures and effective functioning of the tax procedure, curbing the grey economy and tax ejaculation. By adopting this law, we need to take a good step forward towards the proper distribution of material goods in society, to get the state closer to the citizens and into their structures, and to enable them to provide for themselves all the necessary services, paying exactly what they are able to pay. These changes envision a drastic increase in tax evasion penalties from the current 5% to 10 to 100 times the value of tax evasion. In doing so, the minimum estimated penalty is 5,000 dinars. It is clear to all of us that many have calculated that it is cheaper for them to pay a fine for tax evasion than for tax evasion. This government, and the Ministry of Finance, cut taxes wherever she could, and thus got pretty close to the citizens by realizing their paid powers. The next step is for citizens to approach it and fulfill their own, now much more acceptable obligations towards the state, so that they can rightly expect the same state to pay doctors to treat them, and teachers to teach them children and much more. If citizens, especially those who are richer, who are best known for tax evasion, want to continue living on account of those honest ones who regularly pay their taxes, it is quite logical that this should be subject to rigorous punishment. I wish and expect a general consensus on the adoption of these laws, because it provides space for a final deal with the unfair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2978	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2979	High-ranking party officials supporting the government of Vojislav Kustina in media these days are competing to praise Serbia's government as to God's government daily delivers draft laws to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. I wonder what is going on with these proposals between the government building and the National Assembly building, as the MPs do not receive these proposals and that during this period we have received only four or five draft laws, and everything else that the Government is dealing with, which is being delivered to this National Assembly, are amendments and additions to the laws already passed, which have mainly come from public conflicts between Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic. This is literally the rape of the National Assembly by Kostunica's government. We were here, ladies and gentlemen, two or three weeks ago discussing the Government's Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act and we told the Government and Mr Dinkic - we do not accept your proposal. We've made amendments. The assembly passed most of the amendment and there was a surprise for Minister Dinicic, he did not get what he expected. And, now, Minister Dinkic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica are pushing the same proposal again, the same text, and so I guess until the MPs lose their patience and say -- well, let's vote for these Dinkic proposals, so that the man no longer suffers. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the Government tells us that there are three basic reasons why this law should be adopted. The first is the gradual harmonisation of excise policy with EU regulations, the second is the harmonisation of excise duty with the Republic of Montenegro and the third is the provision of funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, the only real reason is this one under three, securing the inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and how – by dragging his hand into the citizens' pocket by Kostunica's government. This law is very short. There are only a few members. The second article prescribes a higher amount of excise duty on diesel fuel from the current amount of 13.76 dinars per litre to 16.66 dinars per litre, i.e. by 2.90 dinar per litre. During the adoption of the first amendments to the law, Minister Dinkic, as well as today saying that this increase in excise duties will have nothing to do with price hikes, he deceived both the people and the National Assembly, the public of Serbia, arguing that the increase in excise duties on motor fuel does not mean an increase in prices of goods of broad consumption. First, from then on, the fuel has accumulated so much that today a liter of fuel costs 57 dinars. You still haven't answered the question today, or you haven't told us, Minister, how much will a liter of diesel fuel cost now? This earlier collection has caused the collection, all citizens in Serbia know it, and what you say here is not true, it is not true what you say; go to the shops, see how much product has been more expensive than the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. And how much will they collect after rising diesel fuel prices? Because it certainly means increasing agricultural products, even though you say it's demagogy. Demagogy is your agrarian budget, from which no one in Serbia has yet to see or will. But that's why you have in Article 3 of this law that it is proposed to release both domestic and imported natural wines from the payment of excise duty. Well, you're very good at protecting agricultural production in Serbia. And this other law that's on our agenda today, in this so-called. the package, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, provides for the entry into force of the following day from the date of publication in the Official Messenger. Well, what's the rush, Minister Dinkich? Article 120. The Serbian Constitution says - the law, the second regulation or the general act enters into force at the earliest 8 days of the day of publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier. It would be nice for you to explain these – especially valid reasons, for which these two laws should come into force immediately. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration essentially means tightening the criminal provisions for late submission of tax returns or for possible non-registration, while extending the time limit to the State for resolving upon request if a person is to pay a larger amount. This means that you do not care, Minister, or you, or your government, or the government of Vojislav Kostunica, about the citizens of Serbia, and that is probably a great task for you. Minister, today when you explained this package of laws, these two laws, you both explained in three and a half minutes, which is really interesting, and you boasted that increased public revenue collection through excise charges; then you said that your government's goal was to curb the gray economy. But, Minister, you didn't say if you'd contained fuel smuggling, cigarettes, expensive drinks, electricity. I'm talking about big-time smuggling, smuggling that involves certain mob organizations. It's not preventing a gray economy from preventing small retailers, citizens on the street from selling some products. That, Minister, is survival, because citizens have nothing to live on. And then you dare to tell a joke here and unfortunately a nigger. He says to the MPs and the public of Serbia that the growth in production of 11.7% has been recorded and that the economy, imagine, has begun to recover. Well, Minister, go to whatever city you want in Serbia, stand before the citizens and tell them "our dear citizens, the economy in your city has begun to recover, only you have not yet been informed". Well, ministers, Serbian citizens are not Vojislav Kostunica, they are informed and know perfectly how they live under this authority. Today some of the MPs here were making some views, I don't know, what we are saying behind this pay phone, which is why Serbian citizens sent us to the Assembly, whether we should say what we think we need or what the ruling majority are trying to impose on us. But Serbian citizens know why they sent at least Serbian radicals to this parliament, and you should also take care of the citizens who elected you, because all Serbian citizens expect the Serbian government to live better, everyone expects the government to propose laws that will make some shifts in standards and in the life of Serbian citizens. That in the government of Vojislav Kostunica does not have and that is certainly one of the reasons why the SRS have been visited so much, which is why tens of thousands of citizens are coming to our mitts, who are looking forward to 13 June, when Serbia will finally get a democratically elected president, realistically. Mr President, it is obvious that I spoke here in front of the number of MPs who do not correspond to the quorum set out in Article 82(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so please establish a quorum for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-11-0.u2980	If your party's MPs had inserted the cards, you'd be talking to the quorum. Please confirm the quorum. Call the MPs from the hallway to enter the O.R. As we approach the end of time, it's obvious we don't have a quorum. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
