ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5672	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Sava Urosevic, Goran Paunović and Dusan Mrvos. We're continuing our work. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LADIES AND MEDICINAL ASSISTANCES Before we cross, I would like to inform you that, for this item of the agenda, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group Paja Momcilov, authorised DSS representative Dr Goran Ilic, authorised representative of the DS Dobrica Jankovic parliamentary group and authorised representative of the SPS Group Živodarka Dacin. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Mićović, Branislav Blažić, together Dobrica Jankovic and Cedomir Petković, Goran Cvetanović, Milivoje Vukovic, Goran Ilic, Milomir Dunjic, Miroslav Nedeljković, Živodarka Dacin, Mileta Posukura, Dragoslav Milkovic, Zoran Mašić, Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Branislav Stevanović, Milovan Radovanovic, Dragoljub Živić, Petar Jojić, Vojislav Milajić and Nemanja Sarović. National MPs Dobrica Jankovic and Cedomir Petkovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 46 and MP Zoran Micovic, amendment to Article 57(2). At the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, the MPs of the amendment: Živodarka Dacin to Article 7, 11, 48, 66, 75, 88, 108, 118, 129 and 141; Dobrica Janković and Cedomir Petkovic to members 14 and 15 and 35, Dragoslav Milkovic to member 26 and Zoran Mićovic to members 57 with correction and 79. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family Opinions, members of the Committee of People's MPs: Paja Momcilov, Miroslav Nedeljković, Mileta Poscurica and Goran Cvetanović. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is, by parliamentary groups, the following: SRS - one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS - one hour, 3 minutes and 36 seconds; DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SPO-NS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, by five minutes, on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. They've all put up with it. Thank you. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposer's representative, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5673	I will explain today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why it is important for the citizens of Serbia that the National Assembly adopt a law on medicines and medical means. The reason for the adoption of laws on medicines and medical means is the need to set health standards that meet high European criteria, as well as to allow better conditions for development, progress and competitiveness for the pharmaceutical industry and other healthcare and drug traffic participants. The adoption of laws on medicines and medical means is a step towards regional harmonisation, which is part of global harmonisation in the field of medicines and medical means, i.e. the creation of conditions for the single European market. Since the aim of the adoption of this law is to harmonise the areas of medicines and medical resources with EU regulations and standards, it is necessary to bring domestic law into harmonisation with EU law, as recommended by the Union. In fact, the European Commission adopted the White Paper in Esen in December 1994, as well as the White Book 2. - "Preparing the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe for integration into the Union's internal market", which are a strategy for joining non-member countries. These books can be considered to be a legislative guide for countries in the accession process. The White Paper lists the most important rules of the first pillar of the alignment of EU candidate countries, namely areas related to EU economic integration with candidate countries, to integrate the market of candidate countries with the EU's internal market and thus create a single economic space. In the first step of harmonisation of legislation, there are a series of 50 laws that need to be harmonised with EU regulations and passed by the end of 2004, and there are also a tax on medicines and medical resources among them. Harmonisation with the regulations (EU) implies that domestic legislation is harmonised, as well as institutional harmonisation with the EU system of medicinal products. In 1993, the Directives established the European Agency for Medical Products, based in London, as a central regulatory body for EU countries, to obtain a central authorisation for the placing of medicinal products on the territory of all countries of Europe. Under this principle, national legislation of all EU countries has taken over the organisational form of a regulatory body for the field of medicines, i.e. they have established national agencies for medicines, medical products, or medical means, to obtain a marketing authorisation on the national market. The establishment of identical institutions, as regulatory bodies for the field of medicines and medical resources, is a prerequisite for harmonising with the legislative and institutional system (EU) for the field of medicines and medical resources. For this reason, it is proposed to adopt a new drug and medical law, with the adoption of the highest degree of harmonisation with EU legislation on medicinal products. In addition, in the process of joining the EU, it is necessary to meet the standards, i.e. the requirements of the World Trade Organisation in the work relating to the free movement of goods, capital, services and others, which is fully respected by this draft law. The main reason for the adoption of the law is that in the process of production, transport, distribution and control of medicines and medical means, quality, safety and effective medicines and medical means are provided as a prerequisite for quality and safety health care. Since medicines and medical resources are products of general interest, European standards include respect for certain principles, guidelines that are, in expert bodies and commissions (EU) for medicines and medical remedies, formalised in the form of EU directives on medicinal products and medical resources, which constitute secondary sources of EU law. These directives are applied today in all EU member states, as well as in other countries that have an accession plan, i.e. the accession of their country to this Union. Guidelines are set out: Good manufacturing practices, Good laboratory practices, good clinical practice in the clinical trial and Good practice in the distribution of medicines. The implementation of these guidelines will allow recognition of the quality of medicines and medical resources of domestic producers in EU countries and countries applying the regulations of the International Conference on Harmonisation - USA, Europe, Japan and others. The adoption of this law aims, above all, to establish new more standards, both for patients, as end-users of health care and for society in general, i.e. pharmaceutical industry, wholesalerry and organisation of compulsory health insurance, namely: 1) enables citizens, i.e. patients as end-users, to use medicines and medical resources whose quality, safety and efficiency is assessed and documented in accordance with high EU standards. The information the patient receives about the drug is standardised and presented in a way understandable to the patient. The participants of a clinical study of drugs are guaranteed the protection and safety of the highest degree, prescribed by the ethical and professional rules adopted by EU directives; 2)a company in general, forming a "medicine and medical agency", the law will get a significant institution known to all EU countries, as well as countries preparing for entry into the European Union. In this way, quality and standard will be increased in the process of assessing the quality of medicines and medical means, safety and efficiency, i.e. obtaining marketing authorisations and monitoring of undesirable effects, in accordance with the standards and directives of the European Union. The agency is a regulatory centre, which will gather experts employed by the "agency", as well as independent experts. In order to ensure greater quality of work, "agencies" will be linked to other centres, agencies, countries of the environment, or the countries of the European Union, as well as to be included in the network of information on medicines and medical means; 3) the pharmaceutical industry, by adopting this law, can expect the establishment of conditions for necessary growth, development, competition, and thus the survival on the market that cannot be closed. For such a system where the production of medicines and medical resources will take place, this law will create the necessary preconditions to provide a predictable legal basis for the further development of the pharmaceutical industry. The law aims to create a market that is not closed, which fully operates by the rules and standards of the European Union which rest on the principles of legality, transparency and non-discrimination. This will create a legal framework for smooth work and development for both domestic and foreign investment. In addition, the adoption of this law creates conditions for domestic producers to raise their own production standards in accordance with European standards and thus create conditions for exports to European Union countries and beyond. In this way, the competitiveness of domestic production, based on widely accepted European standards, will be an incentive element for the further development of the economy in general; 4) wholesalerry, as an important element in the distribution of medicines and medical resources, the adoption of laws, can expect the creation of conditions for work and development to comply with European standards. Getting licences for the distribution of medicinal products, in accordance with this law, will allow a larger market for domestic wholesale drugs, which will be further spread to the European market on the basis of established standards. In this way, the established single European market will have preconditions for the distribution of medicines and medical resources to other countries; 5) the organisation of compulsory health insurance, the adoption of this law, can expect the establishment of a system for the marketing of medicinal products and medical resources, the control of medicines and medical resources, based on rules and parameters adopted in the countries of Europe, and this will create a basis for better supply of healthcare facilities to quality, safety and efficient medicines, as well as the addition of a system of prices for medicines and medical resources. In this way, conditions will be created for competitiveness in the field of medicines and medical resources, which, for the ultimate result, has the potential to lower the prices of medicines and medical resources and rational use of compulsory health insurance; 6) in the veterinary medicinal products area, the adoption of this law, aims to provide quality, safety and effective veterinary medicines, which will contribute to the establishment of a higher level of animal health care and safety. In this way, for the first time in the country, a unique system of production, transport, control, obtaining a marketing authorisation, price and other medicines used in both human medicine and veterinary medicinal products will be provided. The standards of European legislation on veterinary medicinal products in terms of quality, safety and efficiency are today identical with standards for human medicines, which achieves better protection of animal health and thus protect human health. As regards the above, the paper in the draft law refers to: - providing the market for the Republic of Serbia with more quality, safe and effective medicines in accordance with European Union standards; - secondly, establishing a "medical and medical care agency", as a special professional organisation that performs the tasks of issuing medicines and medical remedies in the market, issuing authorisations for clinical examination, issuing authorisations for imports of unregistered medicines, monitoring the unregistered reactions of patients in a clinical trial; - providing accurate and comprehensible data on the medicinal product through the introduction of the European Directive and guidelines relating to the area of production and transport of medicinal products; - providing full safety of patients in the clinical trial; - providing accurate and understandable data on the patient through the introduction of instructions; - introducing a new way of advertising of medicines and medical resources in accordance with strict recommendations and regulations of the European Union - providing for the protection and control of health care systems; The drug and medical law represents a significant step with its 160 members, which at this point may not seem large enough, but, in fact, it is a major systemic step in harmonising our legislation and our institutions with a modern environment that we seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5674	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5675	Dear colleagues and colleagues, SRS MPs Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, Dr. Milomir Dunjic, Dr. Miroslav Nedeljković, Dr. Goran Cvetanović and Dr. Paja Momcilov have singled out their opinion and voted against the adoption of laws on medicines and medical resources on the Committee on Health and Family for the following reasons. The law is passed prior to the adoption of a national drug policy, which should also be adopted on the basis of an analysis of the state of the nation's health, the need for medicines, the country's opportunities for domestic production, the need for import, the development of a small and large drug distribution system, following a established strategy in the field of medicines and after the adoption of other system laws in the field of health. I mean the health care law and the health insurance law. By introducing the agency system, the new drug institutions, our legislative system, the Law on State Administration, I think of it primarily, and the system of professional institutions of our country, I mean the Institute of Pharmacy of Serbia. The law is formal and substantively written, with shallow and insufficient regulation. It's more of an agency law than a drug law. That's the kind of agency the world doesn't know. The non-principlemental assignment of part of the inspection work to the Ministry of Health shall be abolished by the two-stage appeal procedure, giving authority to the Agency which is an independent and self-financed institution. The issue of marketing authorisations and the control of clinical trials opens up the possibility of corruption, and non-binding control of each batch of imported medicinal products leads to the privileged position of foreign medicinal products in relation to domestic medicinal products, as is the additional threat to the safety of our drug users due to the lack of all necessary information on their unwanted effects. There's not a word in this law on the drug traffic system for small and large. The law was written by foreigners who spent a large sum of European taxpayers who do not know our opportunities, nor do they have any interest in our specificities, and the results of their work on legislation are below any criticism. Here we think of the companies, the companies that worked on this project, "Jurohelt", "Epos" and "Kron Aegeans", and the protagonists of these agencies were Ola Vezbi, Brian Potter, Birna Terp, Vesna Kobler and others. This law is an expression of insufficient professional capacity of the Ministry of Health which for the past four years has not been passed by any system law, and reforms of the health system are paved in place and reduced to the cost of donations and loans, the management of pilot projects that change nothing and further destroy the health care system, which has been tragically confirmed by the infection of innocent HIV patients in a known transfusion affair. In the end, I'd like to make a few more views out of us that we've given our opinion. It was unnecessary to rush and harass MPs when they passed this law, which was withdrawn from the assembly debate last year. We've had a motion twice in an emergency procedure, so the urgency has been removed. Furthermore, the minister as an authorised promoter was never at a meeting when the Committee discussed the law, and we held four meetings. Legal proposals were defended by lawyer Zorica Pavlovic, which is unusual. The MPs did not receive a timely response from the government to the amendments, and in the end, 102 amendments were tabled, but the government did not adopt any, which speaks of the high rigidity of the motionors and the underestimation of MPs. Finally, let me tell you, SRS MPs, who are often known to be saying they are obstructing, have submitted 50 amendments, while the other amendments, meaning 50% of the amendments submitted, have been submitted by members of other political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5676	Thank you. Do any of the MPs who have given their opinion want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister of Health, Mr Milosavljevic represents the continuity of DOS authorities. He was a minister in the former government, now he's a minister in this government. Everything he promised, therefore, to bring system laws, he had a really long time to do so. The proposal for a drug and medical law was first proposed on 24 April 2003, apparently not a good bill, then made adjustments on 6 May 2004, entered the procedure, was withdrawn again, so that definitely this version, which was in front of the MPs on 4 June 2004. SRS MPs believe that this bill is not adequate, above all, because the drug law, which should be reformable, cannot be passed independently of the reform of overall health and without other system laws in the field of health. First of all, because the state of health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is not satisfactory, since available health indicators, such as morbidity and the quality of life, classify Serbia among Europe's countries with the most unfavourable state of health. It is true that the reform of the health system is a complex and difficult process that carries serious health and social differences and consequences for the population, especially for sensitive population groups. This failed eighth attempt to reform healthcare after World War II was obviously not done in the best possible way, because the health system does not work in an optimal way, primarily because of the congestion in the flow of professional information, unquality monitoring of health indicators, frequent changes in management teams in health institutions, neglect and application of health care, prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles, low personal incomes of health workers and present corruption. Health policy, therefore, is a health strategy, is not being conducted in Serbia by representative health care representatives, so that the obligation of doctors, the preservation of the health of the population and its improvement, as well as the treatment of diseases, does not reach the desired level, above all that Serbia's citizens' health is a priority of this government and our country, because the most important resource of every nation is a healthy population and offspring. What was the minister's task is that two thirds of the disease in our country can be prevented and prevented because so many people suffer from heart disease and blood vessels. It takes a lot of energy to eliminate mortality from ischaemic heart disease in men and above all, cerebrovascular disease in women. This drug law has been done by foreigners, but the question is why have our experts not done what they are and how they are known to the UN, such as Prof. Djordjevic, who has already done this for Republika Srpska. When we know that Minister Tomica Milosavljevici is currently in charge when we know that our colleagues do not respect, which he does not even want to accept, I mean his cabinet, although they have written letters many times, even on May 5, 2004, where they say he has been refusing to receive fellow doctors for three years, he does not want to talk to them, let alone accept remarks. The minister does not open new jobs and does not offer a job, and he is asking for two years of work to compete for specialization. The minister abolishes our constitutional and legal right to perfect and specialize, and 1500 doctors are waiting for work, 165 specialists' doctors;130,000 health workers waited and expected much more and expected from the resolution minister! Obviously, he did nothing with the rationalization of human resources, because, above all, parts of primary and secondary protection are carried out in territorial protection, 50% of the beds in Serbia are empty, because the beds in the city-type hospitals are empty, but are therefore crowded in the Clinical Centre. The minister deals more with cleaning in health centres, because he puts absolutely in all positions directors from G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5678	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5679	In the city, he even appointed the director of a doctor who had studied for no less than 17 years! The minister argues that shifts are medicinal, changes are not based on the political line, because it is not crucial. What about the ideal way to pick the director, what he said and promised, and that's a contest. If the minister already does not come to the Belgrade centre with a contest, but with a 90,000-euro cash...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5680	People's MP, if you don't break your story, I'm gonna have to turn off your microphone...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5681	... Since I have five minutes in the Rules of Procedure, I thank you, I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5682	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Zivodarka Dacin, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5683	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, it's been four years since the so-called The "five-October revolution" when the then DOS promised major reforms in the area of health. He promised the immediate adoption of four key laws, a health insurance law, a health care law, a law establishing professional chambers and, of course, this bill on medicines and medical resources that we have on the agenda today. I must say, today's bill of law has been cramping in this assembly for two years. So far, he has been on the agenda of the congregation session three times and has never seen the light of day. To be honest, I was almost certain that this law would pass today's session, but fortunately, that didn't happen. Of course we SPS MPs are for the establishment of a drug and medical agency, and why? First of all, because you will finally arrange a complete relationship at the level of drug distribution in every sense. This is a bill that is not at first sight interesting to end-users, i.e. Serbian citizens, but indirectly is very important. This is a law that is much more interested, first of all, in our pharmaceutical industry and in our big drugstores, and the truth of the matter, I have to say, as a MP, I've had enough time to consult my colleagues who work in the pharmaceutical industry and the major drugstores, and the major objections to this law have not been made. Personally, and the position of the SPS parliamentary group is that it would be better if we had first established chambers of pharmacists and doctors, and only then had we had a bill of medicine and medical means, why? Because we think these agencies should have much more autonomy, that they're more independent and more independent than the Ministry. First of all, it is not because we do not want the minister, personified through the government of the Republic of Serbia, to determine which experts and experts are to be hired to work with this agency. You'll admit, in the chambers of the waist, you'd know better than one man, no matter who's a minister, would know who's professional and competent. Second, there is the impression that there may not be enough trust in professional bodies, such as chambers and the like. We do not want to prevent the adoption of such a law, not to be a stumbling block, but we also want the proposal of the chamber law to be passed as soon as possible, and after six months to one year, when this agency begins to work, to make amends and supplement the bill on medicines and medical means, and to make this correction, as such, enforce. This is one very big law, as all of us MPs had the opportunity to see. He's got 161 members. What bothers a little is that in more than 100 members mention the minister. It's all the Minister's intelligence, and we don't think that's good! Of course we understand that it is not a personal minister, but the agency should live and work professionally and competently much longer than any government can live or any minister should be in power. For example, in some members of the law, the minister is asked and prescribed - what are the rules to be obtained and supplied in order to import the medicine, in order to export, what is to be written on a box of drugs on the outside, what is to be written in the contents of a medicine or medical medicine, what is inside the box, from the way in which medicines that have passed the deadline are destroyed, to the practical monitoring of complete pharmacovigilance, i.e. the unwanted facts of certain medicines. So we think it's too much for one minister and that it should be entrusted to some other bodies. But what is it that this law brings? First of all, this is one of the first laws to harmonise legislation with the countries of the European Union. That's good. We are absolutely not against it because it is clear that in many countries of Europe there is not only a medicine and medical agency, but there are two types of agencies - one is a medicine agency, and a special agency deals with the problem of medical resources. It's very close, to some future, and so do we. Secondly, since it is about standardisation with EU countries, our medicines are practically becoming equally quality and valid on the drug supply market, and if this is something that will practically increase the work of our pharmaceutical industry, we cannot be against it. We received on the Committee on Health and Family firm promises and assurances that by passing this law, the pharmaceutical industry will increase its production, because it will expand the market and will be able to compete equally on the drug market with everyone else. But there is one more thing: in Article 47 of this law, there may be one dilemma (I want to say it out loud here), it is that, on the proposal of the Minister of Health, the Government will bring prices of medicines. I don't want to believe that this is going to happen, but I want to say, knowing our technology and everything that follows, don't let the price of an antibiotic "penthraxil" - Galenike, or "ampicillin" - Hemopharm - be higher than it is "ampicillin"-Plive from Zagreb, or Lek from Ljubljana, so that as a country, it's cheaper to import these drugs, and thus to shut down the domestic market that exists in the country of Serbia. We deeply believe that this will not happen, but we just have to think about it all. Of course, what is it that gets a citizen, a user of our service? First of all, because of this standardisation, they'll get a better and safer cure. Then, he'll get a safety cure and these side effects, so-called. Pharmacovigilance will be reduced to a minimum. At the pharmaceutical college, we learned that practically every "medicine heals one and the other corrupts." That's true. At least that unwanted effect to be reduced to a minimum. On the third hand, the Health Insurance Fund has the opportunity here to get a better and more quality cure for its user, and probably make the economic price more cost-effective, because we know that our practically health funds are still in the big bull. So that's all the relevant data that are relevant enough to support that we are for the establishment of one of these agencies, because believe that people who are alive interested in the adoption of one of these laws have said -- come on, bring such a law that we start working on it. Of course, none of us have the right to prevent our pharmaceutical industry and our majors from functioning, but all of us, as responsible MPs, should retain the right to influence the changes and additions that I expect will soon be. To be more ironic, on July 1st last year, the then and current health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, received keys from the newly built medical and medicine agency building, which was built by donors from EU countries. Unfortunately, it's been over a year, that building is practically locked down, because simply the agency can't start working until a law like this is passed. Do we, as MPs, have the right to prevent the start of this agency? I'm almost sure we shouldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5684	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Paja Momcilov, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5685	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I have expressed our general position, the MPs of the SRS, he is negative, on the bill of this law, let me in one broader statement and document the views I have just presented before all of you. We heard in the opening exposé from Mr. Minister who are the objectives of this reform, we heard that this is harmonisation, to allow the market to function freely, to make the pharmaceutical industry better. We will all agree that this is the secondary task and goal of one law, and the basic goal of such a law should be to "preserve" and improve the health of our people and improve the quality of life for all citizens, which medicines and how much they can contribute in this area. This bill argues that a step further in harmonising legislation with the EU, that this is how we will get to the EU faster, as EU standards have been applied by this law. I must point out immediately in principle one remark - when we talk about entering the EU, we should be aware that there are no laws in the EU, but by applying standards in all areas of social life and in the field of medicines. If the standards are met, then you will also have the opportunity to be admitted to the EU. The EU directives, which are incorporated, 19 of them in this law, are not enough to introduce us into the EU, because anyone who knows this area a little bit better knows that the regulation in the field of medicines is very complex and very extensive. If you want to harmonize with the European Union, then you have six types of documents that you need to adopt and apply in the study, production and distribution of medicines. The European Union in nine files, on several thousand pages, has prescribed ways to handle medicines safely by citizens. Therefore, this story that we are going to enter Europe with this law, does not stand! We, with our laws so far, have been able to put 90% of what is required into the European Union by applying the European Union's standards. I should also say this - legislation is not prescribed by the European Union to any member state. It leaves it free for all members and that is not true. I have here a principle directive, a last directive of the European Union, and I ask the Honorable Minister to show me where it says that the legislation of certain Member States is regulated by these directives. Let me get one more thing straight. It's often said here that the agency represents something that will revolutionaryly change things. I also have information here and I'm asking the minister again to contradict the data. Only in the countries of the European Union and Europe do you have that the agency knows 14 countries, until 23 do not know. Ten countries in Europe have placed this regulation in the ministry, eight have given the Institute for Health Protection, seven countries in completely different ways to accommodate such a regulatory body, as our legislators like to say. It's about boards, offices, folders and inspectorates. This is the European Union. Let's see what happened to the hat of all the agencies, the European Agency, which was founded in 1995. She's an executive. Who's running it? The board, the supervisory partner, who makes up two delegates of each member state. So, the agency was not given to the European Commission in power, but was given to delegates elected by the people to the European Parliament and the European Commission. Of course, there are two other bodies. Let's see the American Medicines Agency - FDA. What's the situation there? If there's an agency over the agencies, the first one, which, in 1927, was founded with this intention, then it's this agency. The FDA belongs to the executive part of the U.S. government, under the Department of Health and Human Services. It was headed by the Committee for Medicinal Products and Food, and was appointed by the President of the United States after the Senate's approval. There's no independent agency, there's no government in America, and we know what America is, how things in America work and what the drug situation is like. It should be pointed out immediately, in the United States, this agency is on the budget, and it is said that $1,400,000 is foreseen for 2004, with the future proposal of the President of the United States, Mr Bush. Our agency has an illusion that it can be self-financing and that it's all right. Let's see how it is in Britain, what's in Britain Agency. The agency is in Britain as part of the ministry and is under the responsibility of the Secretary for Health and Social Affairs. What should be said further, which is very interesting, and I have all the papers, of course, I'm not saying anything by heart, and I'm willing to give these papers to whoever doesn't believe it. If you look at what is said for this English agency "Medicieus and Health Product Regulatory Agency" is the executive agency "Department of Hell". So the executive agency is in England. Well, maybe England isn't enough for us. Let's see what France says. In France, too, an agency that was established in 1998, which is a state body, where the board of directors, of which seven, is set up by the state of ministries responsible for drug issues. The minister has the right to a suspension veto and this agency is subordinated to the ministry. The papers are here, of course, French. In the end, look how it's organized in Germany, there's an institute there. There's another pidanteria: Ola Vezbi, a Norwegian who led a team that did all this, claims that the foreigners didn't do all this and didn't write us laws, and look at these books, these books are a dozen. This is where "Jurohelt Agency" was signed, and I have a list of members, people who worked on this project. A dozen of these books came out in a year and a half. We started writing our laws bilingually, in English and in Serbian, we started doing our legislative legislation in this way, in a caradic way. What I'm trying to say about Mr. Ola Wazby, the gentleman here introduces an agency, and look what it looks like in the Norwegian system -- there's no agency outside the health ministry, as we're being suggested here. He should have introduced it first in Norway, his country, then come and suggest solutions like this. The rest of the world: Asia, Africa, Oceania, Australia, does not know the agency, especially not imagined in such a radical way -- which means it is independent from the administrative authority, which is proud of our legislators and gives us the answer that it should be an independent agency from the executive authority. Secondly, it's rare which agency is fully self-financed. It's always a combination of budget financing and revenue from the services it does. (President: Excuse me, are you using for the next 10 minutes?) I can use the next 10 minutes, it might be better to get a comprehensive impression of all this. So we saw what happened to the agency. Nor is it true that it is a world solution, nor is it true that all European countries have agencies, nor is it true that the world knows such an established agency. A hybrid like this doesn't know any country. I wish I knew. But I will be grateful to the legislators if they show me what country it is with such legislation. What I would also like to point out, as we have already pointed out in our earlier conclusions to you, is that this is how our legal system is destroyed, by the introduction of the agency. If we're legalists and if Mr. Kostunica is here in his exposé, at the first appearance in front of us, when he was elected Prime Minister, he said that as a third significant point of law and respect for justice, I'm surprised how can an institution like this be introduced -- an agency that our right doesn't know?- I'm sorry. The law on administrative proceedings does not know such organizations. Proposers say it will be a public institution. So, the drugs are now regulated where we regulate the water, the city's cleanliness. So we're deregulating the state so no one deregulates it. It is said to be a European solution. That's not a European solution at all. I primarily think that the minister kept some inspections, again referring to the Law on Administrative Procedure, and gave key functions to the agency. I'm talking about issuing marketing permits for clinical trials and drug control. If you keep inspections on yourself, you're destroying the European principle of two-stageness. I know what you're going to say, and elsewhere in our country, that this legislation is being violated. But the Law on Administrative Procedure makes it clear: in Article 54, the applicant - says, "the party addresses the authorities", not the authorised person - the inspector; in Article 60, it says - "the body that runs the procedure"; and Article 113 says, "the procedure is initiated by the competent authority of the official office or by reason of the request of the party". So, it is not the party that addresses the authorised person, the inspector, but the authority, and the same Law in chapter 14 of Article 213 says - against the first-degree solution, the party has the right to appeal; in Article 216, it says, "for a second-degree solution, jurisdiction cannot be determined within the body which has dealt with in the administrative matter in the first-degree". Anything else you can talk about, but it's an act, a lie and a lie. The lawyers know that well. We can also give you confirmations of foreign lawyers who gave an opinion on this. Of course, the most tragic thing is what is said in art. The 84th and 86th laws, i.e. provide for the abolition of the control of each batch of imported drugs. That puts our pharmaceutical industry in a terribly unfavourable position. It's an additional risk to our patients' health. In the debate on amendments, I will give clear evidence of this, the material evidence from the world's literature that follows this area. Of course, you will say Serbian radicals are destroying everything, nothing is wrong with them, or what is your solution to the radicals? Of course, here's our solution. We believe that instead of the agency, management should be established, which should be an organ within the Ministry, responsible for administrative, administrative affairs in the field of medicines and medical resources. We believe that as an authority of the administration, he has no legal personality, no jury account. We continue to say that budget financing is constantly because of the government's authority. We say that we have given additional functions to this administrative authority, and this applies to regulatory affairs, where some of the tasks of the administration concern the profession are abolished. In our opinion, Serbia's Pharmaceutical Institute should continue to do its jobs, professional affairs, and they are listed in some of the members we have given through the amendments, i.e. they should stay with the Institute, and professional jobs should also be carried out by a national centre for monitoring unwanted actions, whose centre may also be in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and certainly should have a network throughout Serbia. We think it's a good solution. What's good about this solution? From the point of view of the profession she loses nothing. When you put the institute into one of these administrative organizations, the profession will be buried with objects and lost to its functions, which it has so far had and which the Law has so far prescribed. Furthermore, from the board's point of view it's also a comprehensive solution. Why? It's all in one place, and it's accessible to an easier operation. From the point of view of the second-degree procedure, it also achieves second-degreeness. If you have an organ management, you also have a second-degree procedure. From the point of view of funding, this is also one good thing. Imagine a self-financed agency that gives permission to foreigners, and is not required to control every batch of drugs. If there are no strangers and no drugs, it will shut down and fail. With it will fail and an incorporated part of the profession – the Pharmaceutical Institute, which is now called "laboratory". Why is the Minister's proposal wrong? There is no second-degree procedure for this solution to appeals, where a kind of division of jurisdiction between the minister and the foreigners who will manage the manager of this agency has been made. We see that there are untouchable people in this country, powerful people, from the shadows, so they're not even from the shadows anymore, they're no longer hidden, no one can do anything. Why? Because they have foreign support. We already know who will be the future director of this agency. Of course, we'll give you names. And that's already certain, not here in the country, but from strangers. This generates corruption, this way of regulation, and we point to that and we warn. In this way, the profession is also brought into great danger, and I think of the Institute for Pharmacy of Serbia. In the end, what is what we stand behind and what we suggest. The law should be returned to the government for a living. It is necessary to first draw up a document on the policy and development strategy in the field of health care and medicine in Serbia, then pass the law. Kazakh - we have a national policy document! See what the document (in hands holds material that shows) national policies of Serbia. Scandalous! Just general places: that it takes a good time for people to feel better - that it should be a bad time, and when it does, people won't feel good. This is a Serbian national policy document. If the Assembly decides to adopt the law, then at least the following basic corrections must be made to prevent the extreme adverse effects of the current bill: - to return mandatory control of each batch of drugs before placing on the market, until Serbia enters the European Union; - to postpone the fact that a member is forming a drug agency for at least a year, up to two years from the adoption of the law, and to define policies in the fields of medicines and create spatial, human, financial and other conditions for the functioning of the agency. Please, this short transitional deadline, which the Government has given this law, is unimaginable for all European countries. I will set an example of the French agency, which was set up in 1998 -- for two years it has provided for its law to gradually approach the implementation of new legal standards. It takes two years for the great France, and it takes a small Serbia a month, two or three to be ruffled upside down into the unknown, to bring all the participants of the system into an unspeakable position. That certainly doesn't have to be allowed!- I'm sorry. That's the main thing I wanted to tell you, and we will certainly try to fix this situation with our amendments. I think I've been able to get the point out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5686	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Please, MP Goran Ilic, authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5687	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on medicines and medical means, which represents the harmonisation of domestic law with European Union law. In the pre-election campaigns almost completed, there were no politicians who did not talk about the need to get close to Europe and become part of this European family. Accordingly, this law is a way of harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation and thus creating better conditions for the functioning of the pharmaceutical industry and all that arises in Serbia. In London, the European Medicines and Medical Agency was established and all centres in Europe, European countries or countries of the European Union have done so accordingly. That principle applies to this law and to us. This is in line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation to establish a free flow of goods, capital and services. This law incorporates the principles and guidelines of the EU through the principles of good manufacturing practices, good laboratory practices, good clinical practice in the clinical trial and good practice in the distribution of medicines. This should result in multiple benefits. Patients should get quality, safe and effective medications. The Agency for Medicinal Products should raise standards for the assessment of the quality of medicinal products. The pharmaceutical industry, which would now virtually go into the single market, would have to raise standards of its own production and thus speed up its development, and on the other hand, there is the possibility that our medicines could be found on foreign markets. The rise in the standard of functioning of the system elements refers to large-scale and all other components, which should gradually reach European standards in accordance with this law. The market richer in drugs, a free competition system, should have a lower price effect on these medicines, thus also a lower burden on the health insurance fund's cash register. All of this also applies to the veterinary medicinal products that are regulated by this law. This law introduces some newspapers, such as tracking unwanted reactions, so-called Pharmacovigilance in the use of medicines and, of course, predicts a way to react to it. It also regulates the area of drug advertising, the area of control and supervision of entities in the production, transport and import of medicinal products. Like any reform law, this law causes a bit of anxiety, perhaps to a greater extent, in some social groups related to the health system and the role of political parties that this law will support, and here I think of the DSS, is to free these social groups from fear, namely to prove that this new legislation allows them to function. I primarily think about small and medium-sized producers in galenical laboratories, which are now strictly tied to pharmacies. The market needs to be regulated and can no longer function as it has done so far. It will be determined whether it will be a galenical drug lab, for one or more pharmacies, and as explained to us, this should not lead to major earthquakes in this system, and those with greater capacities and capabilities, including financial support, to opt to become real producers. These first ones have an empty period of two years, and these others, which will become real drug manufacturers, of five years. It also applies to the wholesales, and there are fears that the "little" will go out and that they will run out of work, as explained to us. This law allows you to raise standards in this area. The small ones will be able to join together at the end of a five-year period, as they say, who sought for themselves, and previously it was intended to be longer, seven, then we have the quality elements of this part of the system. Of course, we see, there's a possibility that later the law will change, but as planned, it shouldn't lead to major earthquakes. It should have quality results and make a shift in this system and, of course, pharmaceutical, and its effects are expected most on the health system. What was a dilemma, and now in these discussions it was heard whether the Agency's powers were too great. Some believe, and we heard those tones today, that they may be under too much control by the Ministry and the Government. Some believe they should be fully controlled by the government. I'll refer to my predecessor's exposure. There are dissonant tones on the one hand, it is believed that the agency is all-powerful and that it can do anything on this market, and on the other hand to Mr. Momchilov, the representative of the SRS is bothered that the inspectorate is in the ministry. It's a complete contradiction. Our initiative was, and it was no secret, in the draft of the law, while it was still in that form, that the inspectorate should be returned to the Ministry, because, in accordance with the Republic Constitution, the Law on State Administration and the Law on the Ministry of Health, the state is responsible, that is, its Ministry of Health and hence, we felt that through this form that is regulated by the members of 101 to 104, the state retains the ability to control this part of the system. Therefore, it is our position and it is incorporated into the law, so we think that in that part of the bill it is improved. On the other hand, we also heard from Mr. Momchilov that amendments on the control of each batch of imported drugs and medical supplies, which were technically incomplete in that form, were rejected. They've been changed now, and we've suggested that every batch of drugs and every series of medical supplies be controlled. Therefore, these are DSS amendments, not the SRS, precisely because we believe that in this period until we join the EU, we need to control a series of imported, but also produced medical and medicinal products, because there have been many incidents in our environment. I'll remind you of Croatia - an incident with Baxter and the hemodialysis equipment, resulting in 22 victims of this incident. We want to prevent it, and the DSS thinks this area has to be reformed, but that price that might exist must not be paid by citizens. They have to be maximum protection. We insisted on our amendments to the technical order, which are before you here now, that every batch of medicine and medical means be controlled. We simply think that it is necessary for our citizens and that this part of the law can be changed in this way. Therefore, we believe that these legal solutions, which represent reform in this area, will improve the entire system of imports, production, transport and drug use and will have positive effects on the health system, and according to this DSS, if these amendments are accepted and another one voted in favour of Article 70.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5688	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. You will use your right to replicate in the afternoon section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5689	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices Before we begin to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 92 MPs present in the O.R. Replica, People's Ambassador to the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5690	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am reporting for the presentation of my esteemed colleague Ilic from the DSS. I am, in fact, misread. In addition to being a colleague of the law, he was involved in my presentation, and he said that the attitudes I expressed were in contradiction! Namely, the inspection code advocates that this is, time, jurisdiction - minister, but time - agency. We don't have any misunderstandings. We have been defined as the "Government" for medicines and medical means to be found within the competent health ministry, and all inspections should be in that administration. If you look at point 7. - Nine, you'll see all the inspection services we've predicted to be there. As for attitude 2 to control every batch of drugs, that's not an SRS position, and again I'm warning you of our amendment under point 66 where we have made clear which medications must be subject to control of each drug series. We even made a specification for domestic drugs, and we predicted that each batch was used.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5691	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5692	I have to tell you what was true and what was true. For the amendment - every batch of imported medicine and every batch of imported medical...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5693	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5694	Article 100(2) It is true that an amendment to the DSS was proposed to Article 86 and Article 133. - that every batch of imported medicine and every batch of imported medical supplies should be controlled. A technical editorial was carried out in the first place in point two - every batch of medicine and every batch of medical medicine. The members of the SRS Health Committee have not voted in favour of this amendment. Therefore, they cannot defend him in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5695	All MPs who are invited to Article 100 must explain whether the position is 1, 2 or 3. From what you've said, it's not about attitude two. The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5696	The predecessor injured Article 100(1) and injured the dignity of the National Assembly by trying to transfer the SRS MPs, members of the Health Committee, to make some mistake or guilt, or not wanting to do anything on the Committee that was not possible. Don't tell us about the technical amendments here. If your amendment was intended for each batch of imported drugs to be reviewed, and now you've given an amendment, so you want every batch of drugs checked, it's not a technical remedy correction. It's a whole new matter and you say here, you're misleading the public that the MPs of the SRS didn't vote for that amendment. This is a new amendment, arrived at 12:30 today. Who else voted on that amendment? Just tell me in the O.R. if anyone voted. Did you vote for that amendment anywhere?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5697	The word is Mr. Goran Ilic. Mr. Nikolic, the injury was by group representatives, not by the president. I only warned the DSS's representative that he did not speak under Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5698	Mr Momchilov spoke of the need to control the jacket of an imported drug and each batch of imported medical supplies and the amendment was not voted by the SRS MPs on the Health Committee. That's the essence of our debate here. Meanwhile, a technical revision of the amendment, which also contains these elements, has been carried out, but also something else. The amendment, which is general, will be voted on and there is nothing disputed. You've been in the Assembly a lot longer than I have, and you know there are technical revisions of the amendments. The Assembly will declare this, but the dilemma is related to a previous version of the amendment, which, as I have already said, SRS MPs did not vote on. Therefore, they cannot defend that amendment here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5699	Mr. Momchilov, a replica of Mr. Ilic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5700	Now with the drugs we've moved on to the truth. The truth is, the SRS submitted its amendment to the 86th of this law, which was not voted by the DSS parliamentary group. Therefore, it is illogical for us to vote in favour of someone else's amendment, and ours has not passed. I guess that's the elemental logic for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5701	Does any other representative or president of the parliamentary group want a word? The word is by MP Dobrica Jankovic, an authorised representative in front of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5702	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it should be said that this legislative proposal was made after the European Agency for Reconstruction initiative, and this should, in our understanding and relation to this legislative proposal, determine our position and our relationship to it. The purpose and needs of this legislative proposal is to bring this area into line, as well as many others, with European laws. In addition, it is necessary to say from this place that it does, in a particular place in the text of the bill, that there are certain deadlines to be respected, which should be respected. I suppose that's why this bill went to the assembly session by emergency procedure. However, it should be said that this is the year in which we have an obligation to adopt this law. Mr. Minister spoke of this bill in a way that it is really a problem to find some flaw in the explanation of this bill, but it is natural, it is normal. No one expects anyone who has a legislative proposal to talk about his bad side, but that does not mean that the proponent is not aware of these shortcomings and its bad side. On the other hand, we expect, from that point of view, that, from the point of view of understanding these bad sides of the promoters, it is planned and seen that if we adopt it, this law will experience its further changes or repairs, because this is an area where it is necessary and that is the key reason for this law to be passed. Among the basic main objectives, I would say that the first among them is the reason why we should plead on this law, which is the safety of medicines. Safety of medicines, certainly their price, etc. - in any case, the state is behind what patients come to use for their best benefit. In this sense, this previous debate, through controversy, also requires that the DS parliamentary group should express itself on the need, and this is not in the legislative proposal, therefore, on the need to control each series, on continued control of medicines." So, no matter who, when and in what form he pleaded on this, I think we should stand in front of objective, good reasons and plead, "every series is controlled." In the first act, I accepted the suggestion that this would be more expensive, therefore, to increase the price of the drug, to make the drugs more expensive, and thus make them more difficult for patients, but it could have just been acceptable and I accepted it all that way when we discussed it. However, I have convinced myself from a completely competent place that it will, not significantly, but in general affect the price of the drug. So, from this point on behalf of the DS Club, I'm saying that this amendment that we now know -- with these papers, to plead and accept it, and I'm sorry that the government has not accepted such an amendment, and that suggestion has been appreciated. Some speak of this law as if the law was written for the agency or for the agency. Mostly connotations are negative in that sense. It should be said that it was possible, possibly, that it was expected to make a special law in the agency, or on the agency, but about what I first pointed out that we had certain deadlines and that it was consistent, that, when the regulation is introduced into the field of drug control, it would be perfectly okay for the agency to be placed in this law. With regard to the agency, the minister is respected directly, a monopoly on work and the Agency's ingenuity. On the other hand, there is an assessment that the minister is given space to transfer his responsibility to the future director of the agency for the registration of medicines. It should be said, definitely, that the experience of developed systems in this area is that they are an inspection, or that they are in this area, and let's say, surveillance of drug trafficking, that they are independent of the Ministry, or Government. At the same time, it should be said that there is one little thing that does not allow us to apply it and practice it, which is the Constitution. So the inspections must be within the scope and jurisdiction of the Ministry. So here's another good reason to expect and to suggest changes and that relatively almost, therefore, amendments to this law. When we talk about the drug-control monopoly of the agency, there's a national control lab. He has suggestions and tried to fix it with amendments, but simply, I have enough understanding that there is not enough legal ambience built to ensure it. So to ensure competition in the drug control process. Then someone says that there is no double-degree in that sense, everything is in the hands of the agency, everything is in one place, the minister is in charge of the agency, that is where the monopoly is seen. It is true that it would be better not only from the point of view of the need for competition, because it is one specific market, but also because of all the good experiences from more developed countries that thus regulate this area. There is another principled observation, which is that in the work of talking about certain commissions, and therefore for this need, experts from the relevant areas, there is a need for the relevant institutions, i.e. professional associations to delegate their representatives. So, in their opinion, the most relevant representatives for the work of these commissions, and this bill nevertheless leaves it to the Ministry or there is no binding dimension to it. Mr. Minister and those who spoke afterwards spoke of the central need to introduce standards in this area and that is to contribute to the creation of a total environment, as I said, among the many laws waiting for reconciliation, therefore, the legal ambience for accession to the European Union. This is one specific area, an area where politics shouldn't have room and we can talk about this environment today, because what doesn't exactly contribute to a stable environment in this area is the government's action which, unfortunately, the minister had to articulate, and it's about some human affairs. I hope that this has been stopped and that it will not take on a broader situation and dimensions, simply, just as Mr. Milosavljević as minister in the previous meeting has introduced and encouraged us, a practice concerning human rights issues, and that positive competition with regard to the competition of projects and the ability to compete in one formal way through competitions, therefore, to determine what will happen in this regard. Finally, I'd say...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5703	Are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5704	I'm done. So, I would say that the central assessment of this bill is that it is extraordinary and mandatory. The first step and not being pathetic, the longest time starting with the first step, and this is something that is our obligation and in that sense deserves support. At the same time, we need to have awareness of it and a clear idea of what needs to be fixed and I hope it happens as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5705	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all MPs. The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and let the Messenger Branislav Blazic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5706	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the drug law both in principle and in particular. We've consulted professional people, and based on their exposure, we've come to realize that this law is good, maybe the only thing he's got is that it wasn't brought in two or three years ago. I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to ask you in this principle debate some things about the application of this law. It seems to me that the most important people who will participate in the application of this law are the directors of health centres. We are witnessing that things are happening in Serbia these days that we thought were far from us and are bound during Slobodan Milosevic. In the city where I came from, in Chačka, one morning, three or four days ago, he made a fax with the name of the new director of the health center. Two hours ago, that man was running for mayor of Cuck. I think this is about serious political abuse in health care, because if that man thought he was working and if he had thought about health care in Chačka, he would have taken over the chair you faxed, we're used to it, it happened during the time of Slobodan Milosevic, it could go elsewhere, in Chačka, Mr. Minister won't go away for sure!- I'm sorry. I want to thank you on behalf of the citizens of Cacko for not being able to write your approval for buying scanners in Chačka for five months! Let me let you know that citizens, local self-government and human privates bought that scanner. We've got help from you, Mr. Minister "zero" dinars!- I'm sorry. Let me inform you that local self-government from a budget filled with citizens of Cacka has driven the gas to the hospital, that for years, maybe beyond the law, we've been buying food for patients, for patients in Chačka!- I'm sorry. We're not looking at that hierarchy who's in charge. That's where patients and citizens from Cacko are treated, from all over Moravia County. Since I've heard these days that some Mr. Cedomir Antic well knows who he works for, I'm asking you openly from this pay phone, with what you've sent this fax to Cachak, I don't know who you work for, for the citizens of Chacka certainly don't, for the health center. And believe me, you don't work safe for the G17 plus party in Chačka, because what you did is counterproductive to your party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5707	Thank you. The People's Messenger Branislav Blažić has the word, and let Zivorad Smiljanić be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three laws here, i.e. It is one of the same laws, occasionally when it is proposed in the Serbian Parliament. It was the first one on 24 April 2003 - the law, the consolidated text, on medicines, medical means; the signer Cedomir Jovanovic, and, for the government's representative, Professor Dr Tomica Milosavljevic. The same law a year later, on 6 May, is now signed by Miroljub Labus, and for the representative again, Prof. Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic. The third law, but now by emergency procedure, a year and a few days later, is back here on June 4th, however, is now the signator of Vojislav Kostunica, and again is a representative of the government of Prof. Tomica Milosavljevic. Meanwhile, the agency opened on July 1st last year. Again probably an emergency cocktail, 300,000 euros spent on the building, 100,000 euros for furniture! It was presented as a reform solution, major changes in health care. But then the minister resigns. The law does not come to the Assembly, the resignation is submitted for political reasons, not for health reasons, not for reasons of improving Serbia's health, but for purely politicising the problem. Now, after a year and a few days, it is once again a matter of urgency and it represents a reform change in health care. Therefore, between the DOS "one", the previous government, and DOS "two", this government essentially has no difference. What can we conclude from the way such a law is passed both a year and a few days in the congregation procedure, and the first law after four years of being brought here in health care before the MPs of the Assembly? Chaoticity, disorganization, disinterest. These are the basic characteristics of DOS "one" government and DOS "two" government work. After four years of major proposed reforms, they'll be glued to crying hospitals, reform three times one, we go into reforms, now the country will turn upside down, and after four years we get the first health law and it's upside down, the law that's supposed to be the last one, and that's the agency law. This is where they misnamed him the drug law and medical means, it has nothing to do with the drugs. It's more of a agency law, because the first 20 members are related to the agency. He treats those things that are most important. During that time, these four years, what's the state of health? Chaos, disorganization, poverty, demotivism, privatisation has completely avoided control, corruption, state and private ties, hospital appointments, and some patients, a few of them, and then all of them, will come to a private hospital if they want to pay, if they do not pay, they will wait for months. In general, one situation that requires serious system solutions is everything left to chaos, the purchase of appliances -- who comes in and what comes in, most of all, and then these appliances, as they happened with the Hal method machine in Kikinda -- 50,000 marks, a method declared bad, and now they've given "Malthean Knights" to use such a 25,000-mark machine, with an explanation, give a private clinic that will use it for humanitarian purposes. The agony continues. Basically, this law doesn't change anything. This is the agency law, but if someone opposes a law like this, you are calling for harmonisation with the EU; ladies who are against such a single solution that does nothing good to Serbian health, which brings nothing good to Serbian pharmacies, which is more of an interest in foreign pharmaceutical houses, lobbies, you will declare it - you are against Europe, you are not for the EU, and such plantings that we have already heard. But that reminds me, you're more than once acting like you're planted and crouching the same thing, you just don't know what you're going to get out of it. Because the essence of why we are against the agencies and all these thousands of agencies that only you bring in lately is complex in this sentence -- the EU in no regulation requires its members to be called an institution, nor where to be placed, but to regulate regulatory issues in accordance with Union standards, and there are Union countries which do not call their regulatory institutions an agency. Therefore, there is no story about it, that if we do not bring the agency in this form as you propose, it will be something against the directive and you keep mentioning the directives. In fact, you don't realize that there's a free space for each country to settle, according to some legislation, what's its primary interest. But what are the problems, when it comes to drugs, that you don't touch with this law at all? It is a fundamental problem, that you forget one truth: that a huge number of people in Serbia cannot reach the cure, that there is no money to buy the cure, that the complications of the disease are far greater than they were, that pensioners with their pensions cannot buy the cure. These questions are not answered by this law. The other thing, which is important and which proves that you went quite the opposite order of the move, that you had to systematically solve the problem of national policies and strategies in development and health and medicine, parallel to this, proves that no one here mentions how people come into drugs, and very serious medicines with serious side effects, with serious contraindications. It's enough to go to the pharmacy and buy any antibiotics. There you will find a pharmacist who, when you say you're looking for a cough, will simply give you any antibiotic, not counting on its harmful facts at all. Very serious medicines are bought in Serbia in this way. Why is this law passed? For the money. Why is there some stories being manipulated here, agencies? Why? First off for the money! No one's gonna pass the law on the doctor's chamber, because there's no money. No one's gonna pass the information and health laws, because there's no money. No one will go into reform from the beginning, with one serious document, with a national strategy, that the Assembly here adopts a document of national policy, a national strategy, to know what direction of development in health will be, to see what problems, to see how we will rationalise health, to see how we will ever make the whole system that needs to work, because there is no money! There's money here, permits, giving, strangers coming, payments. It's big money for drugs and that's what makes sense. But here we repeat ourselves, and that's what we said in the opening statement -- the SRS clearly stands behind protecting the interests of foreign companies here. All the talk is that it protects the interest of Serbian companies, it's deplaced. But, as we normally do in this country and how our product and our science are underestimating, how what our science is producing is being thrown, and taking sides to satisfy the import lobby, I will now read it to you on the case of an "antirabic vaccine", produced by the Paster Institute in Novi Sad, and in a magical way the vaccine is politically removed, in order to provide space for imports of foreign vaccines, which is several times more expensive and not enough, because there is no money to buy it. Approximately, here's what it looks like on our case, in our country, when it comes to our relationship to our mind, our medicines and what's called lobbying and import lobbying. This is what doctor Dr. Dusan Lalosevic, longtime director of the Paster Institute in Novi Sad, writes and says so. "For decades, Paster's office was the only one in Yugoslavia to produce the famous Hemt vaccine against rabies. However, since it has been technologically exceeded, although similar ones continue to be used in undeveloped countries, the Paster Institute team developed a new modern cell culture vaccine after years of research, as part of a project by the Federal Ministry of Science. This vaccine was completed in 1999 because, due to the situation in which the country was in, it was supplied with an import vaccine. However, although we have received all the atheists, the competent health ministries, earlier Federally, and now the Republic, have not given a license to manufacture, so the problems with buying import vaccines continue. In addition to all domestics, we have received positive atheists and opinions from the world's most respected experts from the World Health Organization in Geneva, Budapest and Moscow, but our Ministry did not want to consider it. When he was appointed Minister Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, I spoke in writing in November 2002 to assist in granting permits, as then head of the Paster Institute. However, not only was I soon removed from the director’s post, but I was also fired within a few months, and for the director, the regional health secretary set up a colleague in which she worked as a teacher at the medical school for over 20 years and had never been to Paster’s office before, which is a fundamental legal condition for the directorship!- I'm sorry. Of course, domestic vaccine production has been stopped for more than a year and nothing is done to get a production permit, as if our country didn't need it. I have a lot of indications behind these events that there is an import lobby that is very "transparent" to use by the Democratic Party. I've done this many times in the papers, so I understand they had to fire me, especially because the Paster's Institute's union has made a decision to propose me, several months after I've been replaced, for the deputy director, so that the Institute can work at all." "Democratic", under the assumption, normally, because all the solutions so far are purely political and have nothing to do with knowledge. "The democratic staff solution for the director is in itself proof that their goal is to forget that the production of a modern vaccine against rabies is possible with us, and a state that does not have its own production of vaccines does not have sovereignty in preventive medicine, but is determined by multinational companies what it can do." That's the truth about this agency, gentlemen dear. Therefore, full politicisation, complete politicisation, as we have heard, is at work, and among the predecessors. Now the open question is how and what, in fact, should be done. Four years have been lost, and how should you put yourself under such a problem as today's health care in Serbia? I repeat, under one, the adoption of a national policy, with a clear development strategy, taking into account all the problems that healthcare today has, considering possible rationalisation; to pass a law on the doctor's chamber, which should have been number one and which is here, we have done it on several sides. I'll just say the first member, why the chamber should exist and why I think it should be before this agency, because it contributes to the development of health care, and the agency absolutely nothing. It's a purely administrative matter. "For the protection of professional interests, organised participation in improving the health of citizens, establishing professional attitudes to perform medical dental practice, special services in the training of doctors, monitoring the supervision of the exercise of professional duties, etc.". The chamber is necessary, and the law had to be passed for these four years, to protect and represent the interests of doctors and users of their services, to care about the reputation of doctors, discipline in performing a medical call, to monitor and analyse the work of doctors, to provide legal, professional and other assistance, etc. Far more important and more important things than some agency for something that already exists in this country. The second is the information system, the health care law, the health insurance law. So systematically, gradually, seriously, one state can work, but when a country submits a law on the agency here after four years and says it's reform law, without entering into any serious health problems that have to go before this, because health reform is not what we are serving, then I definitely think that such a state, such a ministry, such a relationship with such serious social activity, will not take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5709	The word has a folk MP, Živorad Smiljanić (not here). The People's Messenger Milet Poscurica has the word, and Miroljub Maric should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5710	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, he would refer to the minister's reasoning of the law, in which he actually read the explanation available to all MPs. He didn't even bother to teach him well, but he simply declared it and tried to explain to us what the purpose of the law is, which I would like to call the "Agency" Act for medicines and medical means, instead of the laws on medicines and medical means, because most of the attention is given to the agency in its explanation and law itself. A legitimate question arises why is this, a team before it was known that the attempts were so-called. The reform government since 2003, I really don't know what it says on the government building, whether it says it's reform or some other, but the document standing on the bench is talking about an idea that has since 2003 been a concept of health care development, demonstrated through two or three days of seminar in Mladenov, where the basic strategy of the government, whose minister, who is now representing, is going to continue reforms by the system of installing foreign experts: Karl Bro Internacional, the Ljubljana Charter and some other foreigners. Indeed, a few ministry officials. So, starting from that, it's quite clear that we can show a fundamental suspicion that this bill has also worked for some of the foreign consulting companies, "Jurohelt", and probably some others. When all of this is so, it is quite justified to suspect that it is very likely, it is also about significant financial adjustments, and then – what is the goal of getting into all this risk?- I'm sorry. Very likely and quite justified, knowing the group of which the minister belongs, the opening of the market. We are faced with the opening of our market, for everything and everything, and for what's good and what's bad here, and we have witnessed it since 2000. Since the first reformers, from the first saviors to declare themselves "Christ" on October 5th, time has begun to count since October 5th, here it is now proven "netically". Labus started with the opening of the market, you remember – in 2002 and so on, Goran Svilanovic, etc. Not to mention names, that's enough. The minister is a representative of the "new idea" that what may be working in this Serbia, and this is the pharmaceutical industry, as well as possibly internally developed, and with unfair competition, with unfair and irregular sales, such as Leskovska "Health", assimilation of smaller pharmaceutical houses, is now formally-legal, formal-logic and regular mode, slowly opening up for foreign interventions. It is no wonder that the analysis of the project of this law, third in a year and a few days, takes a great concentration, a great contemplation of attention, to determine what are the essential differences between what was in April 2003 and now in June 2004. The minister told us that whoever wrote this law was managed by instructions from White Paper 1, White Paper 2, and then by the government's decision to pass 50 laws and to harmonize them with the European Union until 1 October 2004. Of course, he said that both legal and normative and institutional regulations need to be covered by this law. It is possible that some legal norms should be changed and no one is opposed to agreeing with what is good with the European Union. But let's just take an example of allowed, in the European Union, the irradiation of foods, fruit juices with 600 Beckerel, I guess I'm not wrong about the name of physicists, so we're not going to have to apply such a normative deviation in our legislative practice. He's not strictly involved with this law, but he's very important and very important. The blind copying of the norms, which they propose, which do not have the power of legislation, and the introduction into our legislative acts, as strict legal regulations, can, at some point, cost us dearly. Why aren't we thinking well about the agency at the SRS? Not only is it a matter of form, a question of name, the government kind of gives up "agencies" wherever it can. This is a relic of last year's intensity and remains in this law, around the agency, which is formed by the government and forms a very massive body, a massive administrative apparatus. Now, let's take some three organisational sectors, three organisational units, of which are two, the National Centre for Unsolicited Facts and the National Drug Information Centre, so similar that we could combine them if we wanted to cut the money, get our eyes dirty and create some kind of an illusion. Furthermore, five sectors, five expert committees and what we have learned fantasticly to listen to so far about agencies and experts, and now I don't know whether foreign or domestic experts have suggested it, because we have experts in G17, supposedly famous, exceptional, but they bring foreigners. These are expert experts who will again address problems concerning expert groups, expert commissions. And, when you put the hierarchy chain in the structure of one agency, and without further explanation, except that the statute of relations will be arranged, you don't really know how much it will contain personal and what solutions and whether what really is the basic provision of the "conflict of interest" bill will be resolved. Now, not only do we know the group G17, that the conflict of interest and resolution does not stand well and purest, but also political opportunities in Serbia at all quite backwards, and even in the last few years we can ask the question – if we are already suggesting some personal solutions whether the conflict of interest is resolved by the fact that, for example, it will be for one of the heads of the sector or even the agencies, or even the department of the agency, how to divide them, since the legislator did not say so, but – the agency is forming these three significant organisational units, whether it will perhaps be a man who has been involved in favouring certain pharmaceutical houses for a very long time now. Is this a man who was already a lobbyist, so when he comes, he will put his work to rest and remain fictitiously bound to powerful, foreign or domestic houses. It doesn't matter. If the law does not say that this law will enable a liberal market relationship, because the European Union obliges them to do so, then we cannot be sure if someone with a mortgage of a man who favored one of the pharmaceutical houses comes to the head of a number of institutions entering the Agency. Why the agency is a problem, not by name, by the solutions it offers. It offers a mix of administrative functions and functions of adopting official, official or professional recommendations. She has become very vaguely entangled with the office of the ministry. According to the current legislative proposal, the minister has been authorised to make proposals on what will look like confidence, which will contain, for example, what the clinical trial protocol will look like, what the license will look like. The agency's gonna issue it and he's gonna prescribe it, let's say. One of the illogicalities of intertwining one need to at first sight create an impression of some kind of mutual control of one government institution, agency, and another government institution, such as the ministry. On the other hand, the question arises as to how, for example, the minister will make quite professional decisions, such as what we call assimilation of Good Manufacturing Practices, not to say copying what the European Union has made and made as a recommendation. He'll simply reveal them in the official messenger. How it's going to go and what it's going to commit us to, if we don't know exactly what those guidelines contain. These guidelines should be primarily and likely to go through some kind of professional editorial, professional control. Do the Institute of Health Care, do the medical chambers, do the expert commissions. Furthermore, when it comes to expert commissions, under the bill of this law, they are created within the agency, e, now, in the book, which I mentioned earlier, it stands in my lap so I don't have to show it in front of the cameras, but there it is. We see that the Ministry has formed a series of councils, a series of agencies, a series of expert commissions. Are those the same commissions that fell under the agency? Will the minister form his own advisory committee? A lot of it remains unclear in that, so I guess they should work it out, figure out what those guidelines are. Is there not going to be something in these guidelines that will make us so committed that then we will have to change this law, to be fingers in the eyes of Europe, of the European Union, to say – well, we are now changing, we have stumbled, it hastily happened, this good practice, hastily was the principle of the "good clinical practice of storage, production" etc. It will simply be one day at the Official Messenger, but probably by October 1st, when the agency is to officially come to life, the guidelines of different practices that will be prescribed or perhaps prescribed by the minister, since it is impossible for the minister to bring them himself. I'm going to go to another topic for a moment, and it's very close, and that's the minister's right to determine the procedure for examining medical resources and control. He's bringing procedure to what it's going to look like, how long it's going to take, and somehow it's legally shaping it. Now, imagine the potency of the minister that all medical means, from artificial valvula to dialysis apparatus, dialysis membranes, graphs, valvula will be able to design and propose the concept of clinical trial for such funds. The question is what will be done by the teams to which the agency is plentiful, even if you adopt, and you are likely to adopt such a law, will remain all professional teams, so why, if we don't say so, the expert teams will do so and will not be prescribed by the minister, or will be the minister with expert teams. What further jurisdiction are the agencies that are simply sticking their eyes into us? It is simply as if the proposer of this law had taken care of the fact that he did not object much to foreigners, so all those guidelines that would be related to the granting of a marketing authorisation, especially to foreign producers, with the release of drugs, laboratory control of drugs, the granting of licences, were placed in the authority of the Agency, because, nevertheless, and if any rebellion was made possible, what kind of two-stageness in the administrative procedure. And what's important for the domestic market, giving him the right to produce drugs, allowing him to produce drugs, or inspection controls, was given to a minister where it's possible for someone to complain that he can't be allowed to do this, or, what, ten inches of ceiling height, or the production of a game or someone finished - the cure has no one to complain about.- I'm sorry. An inspection under the department's jurisdiction and that's where it ends, and then it goes into some regular disputes, and that's something else. I mean, there's a series of disadvantages on some of these occasions. Why not the agency as an appointment? Let's not argue about the appointment. We have proposed to you other administrative actions, administrative procedures, and it will be called management. Whether it sounds communist or otherwise, I don't know, but at least it's logical and in the spirit of Serbian. The agency is also in the spirit of Serbian language, but we know a lot about the agency, from tourism to others. I would also like to discuss in principle the issue that we have all mentioned, and probably all radicals will mention it, it's a matter of drug quality control, a question of clinical trial, if I'm not mistaken, where before the marketing authorisation is provided for in the procedure. The first item of the first position, article 86, points out - in the release process, if necessary. What does that mean now? To examine the medicinal product in the proposed national control laboratory, if necessary - in the release procedure. I guess it's more mandatory then. If I am not mistaken, the second point (first position) of Article 86 states that it is also necessary to control the "first batch of drugs" produced. We, of course, remain on the line for why and not every next show? There's another hideout playing why it favors a foreign market. If someone from the foreign market is a competitor to register a drug or drug substance that will only be "repacked" in a ready-made drug-infectible correction and then it's a cure. If he brings in a certificate, an importer, an applicant, who submits an application for registration, approval, confirmation of that house, that institution, and the country that produced the medicinal product, that the medicine is laboratoryly correct, will receive automatic approval of the agency, he will be admitted, as he says, "a certificate of quality will be issued to him". Imagine what kind of route a domestic manufacturer or a smaller galenical laboratory should take to issue a similar or different drug. So, the obvious elements of favoration are, and I think other political parties have seen them, so they suggested that the minister change it, as we have suggested, and that every batch of drugs that are imported be tested and checked, be examined, even if pharmacologically and pharmacologically. When it comes to clinical trials, it's not clean to the end either, and that's where a number of traps are hidden. For example, it is one of the points in clinical trials that, who is the applicant of the request for clinical examination must not by contract commit to favouring professional gatherings and paying them more than is necessary. One foggy finding, which I would welcome if it was intended to prevent the purchase of expert doctors' opinions, recognised medical personalities. We are witnessing today that depending on how much anyone appreciates himself, will agree to favor, advertise or speak well about one drug of one company, in 200, 300, 400, 500 euros, at a meeting of selected doctors, and then it will do the same for another drug company, so if more hits! That should get in the way. It should never stand the doctor's name above the particular house that does it. If this way, this way, is restricted -- it's unclear, it's foggy. This should be redefined, made clearer and said - what is more than the necessary costs to cover the costs of expert meetings and counselling to be conducted on this basis. I would just like to mention one more thing about a pharmacovigilance, which we would like to give a Serbian name and you will hear in our amendment recommendations what it looks like. Where is the list of unwanted effects and everything that implies and everything that the ALLERT system normally brought to the federal level. We are now getting from very pervasive EU countries. They're very jealous of it, because those drugs they're supposed to give us, or pass as a second hand, a second-rate cure, not a first-rate cure, so I don't use too much expression, they won't give it back to us and let us know, so let's say it has that or this side effect anymore. We don't have open availability. Will we be involved in this information system with the establishment of the agency on October 1st? It's just that I doubt it, because if they have good intentions, which they didn't include us in it in a year, so we can get ideas about their goodwill. What we get from the World Health Organization, which is there, is nevertheless a report by third-world countries, those countries that are not included in the EU, which are not powerful producers. I must finally bring the end, do something to protect the domestic market, to make it work, to allow it to work more loyally, with loyal competition, to avoid the traps of large tenders of large pharmaceutical houses, and to buy those who decide, to start from the hospital director, and beyond, to different hierarchys, including possible people in the ministry, to get affection, favoring in production, and to preserve what we have. Not to sell further and make the market integrated and finally open to loyal competition. Serbian radicals will never run away from this loyal competition, we show it in parliament, we would show it in a business life, because it is necessary and does not allow the drowning of domestic producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5711	The word has the People's MP Miroljub Maric, and let Goran Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5712	Mr. President, Mr. Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, pharmaceutical activity is an act of generality, but also of social interest, because it is in direct function of improving, preserving and protecting people's health. The regulation in this area is of paramount importance, as it enables quality, safety and effective medicine and medical medicine for all citizens. The drug law and medical means aim to harmonize our regulations with EU rules, and on the principles of modern pharmaceutical marketing and management. Three of the world's most developed regions: the EU, America and Japan, back in 1990, formed an International Conference on Harmonization - ICH as a permanent body for monitoring drug registration. The EMEA-based European Medicines Agency in London is tasked with co-ordinating activities and activities for the field of medicines in EU countries. It is the new law on medicines and medical remedies that is in line with EU provisions, and indirectly with the ICH regulation that insists on the quality, safety and efficiency of medicines, both human and animal medicines. By applying the law currently in force, the Law on Production and Transport of Medicinal Products regulated this area at the federal level. The Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Policy was also responsible for its implementation. Since we are all familiar with the new council in our new state community, this ministry does not exist, and therefore the new law on medicines and medical means was necessary to bring it forward as soon as possible, because it foresees the obligation of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Health to control its implementation. The law provides for the establishment of medicines agencies and Serbia's medical resources for EU countries, and the Agency's task is to provide quality, efficient, safe and accessible medicines and medical resources. I'll list a brief function of the agency. The Agency shall have the tasks of issuing authorisations for production, inspection of manufacturers, granting consent for clinical examination, monitoring of advertising, classification of medicinal products and medical products, quality control, standardisation, ban on transport or withdrawal from production, statistical monitoring and research, information on medicinal products, promotion of the rational use of medicinal products. Administrative, scientific, advisory and information activities will be represented in the structure of the agency. The coverage of the agency is the pharmaceutical, medical and veterinary sector. The Agency shall include, with the agreement of the Minister, prominent experts as members of the advisory committees for the placing on the market of medicinal products, for the assessment of clinical trials, the assessment of the safety of medicinal products and medical products, and the advisory committee for veterinary medicinal products. For all of this, the Ministry oversees the legality of work and the professional work of the agency. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices defines the concept of medicine, the distribution of medicines, explicitly prohibits the issue and sale of drugs outside the pharmacy, which should lead to the suppression of the gray market in medicines. The Agency shall issue a marketing authorisation under the established criteria governing this law. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices accurately determines the conditions under which a clinical trial of drugs is carried out, as well as the traffic on large and small. The quality of medicines is provided in accordance with European and national pharmacies. The marking of medicines and instructions for patients is consistent with European Union standards. The Agency shall have the obligation to monitor adverse drug reactions and their interactions and shall inform health and veterinary professionals accordingly. The new law provides for drug advertising in terms of positive advertising, but also for banning advertising in terms of public deception. Oversight, over the implementation of this law, is carried out by the competent health department through the inspector. The drug law and medical means also regulate the concept of medical means, as well as division according to the use and degree of risk. It also foresees conditions for the production and transport of medical resources, clinical examination, marking and instructions for patients and quality assurance of medical resources. Criminal provisions of the drug law and medical means specify criminal acts, economic offences and offences for all those who do not comply with the regulations provided for by this law. The measures of criminal policy have been tightened and protection measures for the prohibition of action are imposed to violate certain provisions of this law. I'll state, briefly, and benefit from the law. Citizens as end-users receive the quality, safety and efficiency of medicines and medical resources at the level of European Union standards. Standardized information and safety of the highest degree during clinical trial. What does society in general get? The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices is a "regulatory center". It connects us with the European Union countries, including a network of information on medicines and medical means. Significantly, the pharmaceutical industry is also winning. Growth, development and the open market have been enabled to respect the European Union standards, the possibility of exports, as well as a very significant moment of foreign investment in our pharmaceutical industry. Veledrogies get conditions for working in line with European standards, get a license to distribute drugs and medical resources, the possibility of expansion to the European market. Finally, the health insurance of the new law enables better supply of health institutions, upgrading the system of prices of medicines and medical resources, the possibility of lowering the prices of medicines and medical resources, and, most importantly, the rational use of compulsory health insurance funds, given that we know what modest means are available. Higher levels of animal health and safety are established in the veterinary medicinal product area, resulting in better human health protection. You assume the G17 Group of MPs will vote for this bill. To inform my colleagues that in the procedure of the Sanitary Control Act, it is in the procedure of the law on protection against infectious diseases, that very quickly, probably in the first regular session, we will also have the health care law, health insurance law and medical chambers all of this will create one environment for one root and a comprehensive reform of the health system. G17 plus this promises you this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5713	The word is Dr Goran Cvetanović, and let Cedomir Petkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5714	Ladies and gentlemen, the drug law says it's supposed to be reformal, but what the representatives of the SRS suggest is that it can't be passed independently from the reform of overall health care and without other system laws in the field of health care. The issues raised are, above all, who are implementing reforms and what are the criteria for assessing the success of such a reform. Who guarantees the success of the reform, and who will be responsible for the possible negative results of the solutions applied? Given that our respected minister is constantly potential for European integration and the World Health Organization, I am responsible for saying that according to the Council of the World Health Organization, the drug law should be separated from the medical law, because, above all, it is defined in most European Union countries. If we strive towards the European Union why, even if we do not use these positive regulations, we use them when we need them, and when it does not suit us and how we select! The law is primarily insufficiently detailed, since the details are transferred to sublegal acts which, of course, later the Minister will regulate the Oblast – the supply of drugs, require first of all a comprehensive approach in the drug supply system policy, because it is necessary to satisfy the interest of the end-user i.e. a patient with quality, safe and effective medications. Instead of being comprehensive with appropriate system solutions, this law meets only the needs of foreign drug manufacturers and allows for the privileges of medicines from the territory of the European Union - unfair conditions are created for the benefit of foreign producers and at the expense of domestic producers. The draft law speaks of the agency as the central institution of the system in the field of medicines in the first 20 members. The name of the law is the drug law, and now it's all the time talking about the drug agency. Although many parliamentary groups in the past term, the SPS and the DSS, have been against the agencies, I see now that some support the formation of a drug agency. First of all, the Agency is entrusted with the granting of marketing authorisations for medicinal products and clinical trial permits, control of the quality of the medicinal products. What is certain is that the production of drugs is one of the few remaining manufacturing branches with a positive balance, and since G17 plus participates in privatisation, first of all the "Health" factories from Leskovac, which has been sold for 3.5m euros, and the value is 45m euros, it is now that these factories that have been privatised slowly and systematically and destroy them so that some foreign factories can operate on our premises. Given that the agency is the central place of this law, why the function of the institution is not administrative, there is no name similar to the administration, which is an administrative procedure, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration. We call agencies only - tourist organisations, but apparently, these reforms allow us to form a medicine agency. Obviously, this law did not take into account the conflict of interest, because of the conflict of interest, for sure and how it should be taken into account, above all, when making the law, because Union experts who have all worked in turn for large drug manufacturers, European and global, and then on a project to develop medicines in Serbia, are now proposing this law. Why the statutes of the authority or organisation that conducts administrative procedure in Serbia should be written by experts of the European Union, not by our experts. It is a public secret that they propose and choose people who will run the agency and work in it, representatives of drug lists for therapeutic guidelines. Under the proposal for a new law, the control of each batch of medicinal products before placing on the market is abolished because it is a practice of a member of the Union. The countries which are members of the Union shall rely on the quality control of the batch of medicinal products carried out by the manufacturer. When it comes to countries outside the Union, then Union countries control every batch of drugs placed on the market. As a legislator of this law, the minister suggests that in Serbia where no report on the safety and efficacy of the European Medicines Agency, nor the agencies of the member states of the Union, except the World Health Organisation, is available, the control of each batch of medicines placed on the market is lifted. This was insisted by the representatives of the Union, as this shortens the procedure for the marketing of medicines and is being saved by the packaging of drugs, which is extremely important to the large producers in the sovereignty of the market and in terms of prices, especially for cheap medicines. For this reason, representatives of the SRS suggest that the law be returned to the government of the Republic of Serbia for further work. One should first be drawn up, as I would call it, "a policy act and development strategy in the field of health care and medicine in Serbia", and then passed the law. It is necessary to "must" return control of every batch of drugs before Serbia's entry into the European Union and for sure, "mandatory" is to control the quality of the drug when granting a marketing authorisation until Serbia's entry into the European Union. What is required in this bill, which we, especially outside Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, must pay attention to, is the reform of the "transfusion service of Serbia" announced by the minister. It was published on the official website of the Ministry of Health, obviously not well designed, as blood is collected throughout Serbia, transported, processed and tested at three centres, internally deciding how much to whom and where it is needed. Whether blood will arrive on time to medical institutions depends on many factors: on current conditions, on the condition on the roads, on the very technique of keeping the vehicle, so that this model, except in England, no longer exists. All transfusiologists are not sufficiently familiar with the announced reform, nor are they involved, because these processes take place far from the eyes of the professional public. All proposals for a solution to the service reform should be given a positive opinion, above all, of the professional transfusion services and the Department of the Serbian Medical Society, and the work and survival of the National Centre for Plasma Functions, originating in voluntary blood donors, at the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute, should not be questioned. Public procurement and transfusiological equipment must not prejudge future service reforms, as the government of the Republic of Serbia through the reserve ministry is obliged to show, in a very short period of time, where non-intentional expenditure from the health ministry's 2002 budget is spent. First of all, because budget funds have been paid without predetermined purpose at the Universal Bank of Belgrade, and later these funds have been changed on their own with general interest in the supply of equipment for their own needs! There are indications that there are major financial malfeasances in that case! The government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to establish the truthfulness of the allegations that the Institute has imported radioactive plasma from Ukraine and has been processing into medicinal products for human use -- to definitely see what is wrong with it. What the public has tried to define more than once is a statement given in the event of HIV infection spreading through blood transfusions. "That is why we must not allow our institutions to neglect and technologically reverse blood processing services and not produce albumin from blood plasma, but to be convinced that it is better to export blood plasma!"- I'm sorry. The question is whether blood should wait for a patient or a patient's blood, and apparently such a system of patients who are not in the centres themselves, such as Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, will be exposed to the risk that, many times, when that blood is most needed, they are unable to provide emergency and emergency assistance. In 2001, the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia received 19m dinars through the Ministry of Health to achieve general interest in the area of health care. These were activities in action by voluntary blood donors and blood supply programs. The budget inspector who was in control then found that more than 300 million dinars were taken from the budget through the Ministry of Health, and that in various cases it was wasted without purpose. For example, the Batut Institute spent more than 60 million dinars on the profits themselves. The equipment provided by the Institute with these appropriations is mostly not used: PSR equipment, which has been paid 166,000 euros -- no analysis has been done in these two years, and the warranty deadline has expired. Most purchased refrigerators are not used, portable refrigerators for mobile teams, as well as several large refrigerators, because there is doubt that the refrigerators are remounted and are not functional. Serbia's blood transfusion institute through the International humanitarian aid has received virus-infection equipment in the process of functioning stable blood products. Not a day - today, therefore, after three years, this equipment is not mounted and placed so that it can work, and its purchase value is over 130,000 euros. Apparently that many things were put under the carpet, that's what the doctors are troubled by; let's say, at the Institute of 2001, eight series of albumin were done, and when the report was given by the Institute of Formation, I mean the Torak Institute, that the albumin were positive and that they could not be put into circulation, therefore the Institute was blocked to work from January to September 2001 and did not provide health care, or Serbia with albumins, but were already done by "importers". In September, these same samples were sent to Amsterdam to a truly competent institution where all the series proved to be negative, i.e. the product of albumin is correct and is placed on the market. No one answered for all of this, and it's sabotage, and the whole case is covered up! The most important example of the operation is the Sofreco company that's doing this whole project, when it comes to blood functioning. In 2001, also after the arrival of Director Gradimir Bogdanovic at the Institute, two second-hand devices for donor "plasmaforesis" were purchased. These machines are number 185 for $18,000 purchased from the company Junico. According to various persons, repairers, the said appliances originate from the private office of Gradimir Bogdanovic, which he closed upon his arrival at the Institute in June 2001. I will remind you that, on arrival, especially in 2002, the Institute bought large amounts of plasmaphoresis and cytophoresis kits worth $150,000 from the company Hemitex. At the very end, I have a full list of all the companies that, over 23 million dinars, have used funds to revitalise the basic assets and have been taken into account. Indeed, there are great malfeasances when it comes to the Institute of Transfusion and now it is really clear why the minister is trying to reform the Republic of Serbia's blood transfusion institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5715	The word has a folk MP, Cedomir Petkovic, and let Dr Milomir Dunjic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5716	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I respect one of the basic unwritten principles of DS, that there is much work to be done and only talk as necessary. I'll try very briefly, with as little repetition as possible of what my colleague, who was the rapporteur of the DS parliamentary group, said here a few, in my opinion, important things. Since this is a debate in principle, without having to go too broadly, I will use the subject, given that this is the first law in the field of health, medical issues in this assembly, so I would say something on the subject that is important for the state of the nation. Since we are elected people's representatives here, at least we all here say how much anyone does in practice, that's what the people will judge, we are here to bring some improvement and something good to those who chose us. We doctors especially have this obligation, primarily by the nature of our profession. It's very good that there's finally one law in this area on the agenda. More of my predecessors have talked about it since he was supposed to be, I wouldn't repeat it, but I would say, no matter what a few of my predecessors have said, there's always a possibility in this assembly when anyone agrees with someone and they're not from the same political option to declare themselves potential coalition partners. So doctors are people who think less politically and less of their political parties, and more of the language and logic of the profession, people who are relatively easy to get along with in many ways. This was also shown by the Committee on Health and Family of the Assembly, which has launched a series of very important topics and has been initiated by colleagues from all MPs. Of course, we differ in detail. What many of my predecessors have said, which I must point out, is the topic of health reform, and as far as we are in reforms, that is, whether we have entered into reforms at all. We've come in a little, not enough, shyly, and I have to agree with everyone who said that maybe the order of the laws they've passed here in this area isn't the happiest. I said it's a good thing we have this law, but it's not a good thing we haven't considered the law on chambers, health insurance, health care. I am pleased to hear today from my colleagues from the G17 parliamentary group that the laws, if I understand correctly, are in preparation and I look forward to considering them almost. It is necessary, given that we doctors, and you who are not, know perfectly how sick our health is, that we are seriously, quickly and efficiently rather than the competent ministry, headed by Mr. Minister, deal with many problems. It doesn't take much rhetoric here, but it takes a lot of work to get things better. We can't do anything essential in health care without reforming the health fund, without respecting the amount of money we have. The issue of the state sector, the private sector relationship, etc. must be regulated. It is common knowledge that it is easy to host and dispose of great resources. There's not much money in health care, and there's a lot of needs and problems. In that sense, I fully understand this and every other minister, that he simply dares not enter deeper into something called reform, but it is simply necessary: - health care workers' status, condition in primary health care, rationalization of the network of health institutions, rational use of sick beds, etc., we have a relatively excess of sick beds and regional imbalances. We have famous waiting lists that you know what they're carrying with them, and so, the truth is, that's what analysis and examination say, that we're at the top of corrupt professions. Self-indulgence of health homes, it's a topic that's long on the agenda. These systems of regional health care are not good, and we all know that. There are many topics that are important and I will welcome that this law is finally on the agenda. I expect we'll have others soon enough. As far as the law itself is concerned, when it comes to the debate on amendments, I will say more about the amendments submitted by the DS Group MPs. Here, in principle, I will only say a few things that are mostly mentioned by my colleague who was a reporter in front of the DS parliamentary group, first of all, the issue of drug safety and medical resources. In a special amendment, then we will explain it broaderly, we will suggest that the same commission deals with and is trafficked and controlled by medicines and medical means, because we consider it logical, because it is more binding for the person who puts it on the market, to worry about what tomorrow will be when someone is dealing with an analysis of the validity of that drug that is on the market. I would also agree here with someone who said something, it doesn't matter from which parliamentary groups, that it should help and protect the minister in this law, now the current one, and tomorrow someone else, the minister, as an institution, not Mr Tomic Milosavljevic, protect him from the competences and obligations he has in this law, and a little more include the work of professional and professional organisations. As far as drug control is concerned, both domestic and imported, I think it's quite clear, and here we in DS insist on controlling all medicines and what's a special topic, which is already apostrophe, but I'm going to mention it, that's the question of "national control laboratories". We don't mind that in the perspective of one day, it'll probably be that way, we get one "national control lab". I think now in the beginning, this legal solution, it's not a good proposal for many reasons, first of all, which will put someone right away, or this agency in a privileged, monopoly position, which will centralize some things. And the question is, do we have the possibility of something like that, and the actual state of affairs says that we have a lot of equipped laboratories in the country that can at this point, effectively, according to the current regulations, do this kind of control. Of course, there is a need to synchronise and control the work of these laboratories, but we don't think it's a good solution that one national laboratory is doing, and we're going to try to make an appropriate amendment to propose to Mr. Minister, or to you who vote on it, to decide differently than it is in the proposal for this legal solution. We will have more proposals, which we will talk about more later in the session when we discuss amendments, such as cutting the Agency's decision on the marketing of a particular medicine. One important question, which I'm not sure is that it's most precisely regulated in this legislative proposal, is the matter of supervision - the inspector of inspection services, or inspectors who will supervise and control all of this; who chooses inspectors, who pays them, who asks them. This will certainly be proper regulations, or sublaws, regulated, but you will agree that it is a very important and important issue. So much, I hope I haven't made it up. We'll discuss the details when the amendments are discussed. In the end, we welcome the adoption of this law. We hope that our amendments, for additions, to correct this well-proposed law, will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5717	The word has a folk MP, Dr Milomir Dunjic, and let the MP Goran Davidovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5718	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, because of the surgical intervention on the vocal cords, I can't speak very clearly, so don't blame me. The drug law and medical means law is another law in a set of laws that you will bring quickly to this House. You have cited several reasons for the adoption of this drug law and medical means: - first, you are saying that this law will protect people's health, safe, effective and quality medicines: - second, the reasons for the adoption of this law are to protect legal entities that carry out the production, control, i.e. the transport of medicines and medical resources and align work with the most important standards of the European Union: - third, most importantly, this law establishes agencies for medicines and medical means. The whole point of this law story lies in the agency. According to us, Serbian radicals, this law should have the name of the drug and medical agency law. Because the first 20 members of this bill only talk about the agency, instead of drugs. So he talks about the agency as the central institution of the system in the field of medicines, while the other institutions of the system only touch in subsequent provisions and everything that is with them in connection with them, you almost completely leave it to the minister, to design and sublegal regulations, which are adopted at the level of the minister, determine. In order to be even worse, in the division of competences between the agency and the ministry, the proposing - the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, the agency entrusts the issue of marketing authorisations for medicinal products and clinical trials, as a control of medicines, all of which is of interest to foreign producers and the granting of licences for the production of medicinal products and the marketing of medicinal products, to large and retail sales and inspections, which, practically, refer to domestic institutions, are left in the power of the minister, because Serbia does not issue a license for the production of foreign producers, nor can Serbia's inspection bodies control them. Such allocation of competences is of exclusive interest, especially in the case of work permits. The task of the Serbian state is to satisfy the individual interests and to coordinate the mutual relations of all subjects in the supply of medicines, to satisfy the interest of the end-user - the patient, which is a horizontal level of organisation of the system, while at the same time harmonising relations and interests at the level of verticals, while ensuring that each link in the chain in its domain meets the principle of ensuring quality, safety and effective medicines available to everyone at all times, at every place and at an affordable price. Realisation of such a task is not possible anywhere in the world, nor with us, by the law on medicines, but exclusively by national policy in the field of medicines, i.e. a comprehensive document on national policy and strategy in the field of medicines. Serbia has a document made by the European consulting firm Georgelt, within the framework of the European Agency for Reconstruction project, which consists of 13 principles that are so principled that they could not define and systematically edit a single drug area, if there were such ones, and not of several thousand medicines, such as the areas of medicines today. The then and current health minister, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, agreed and accepted him as his reminder, who does not commit him to anything. Instead of being hired by our experts to make a document as needed by Serbia, comprehensive, developed and with appropriate system solutions and the obligation of participants, which would be adopted by the Serbian Parliament and on the basis of whom the drug law would then be passed, which is not the case now! Also, the drug law, which needs to be reformed, cannot be passed independently of the reform of overall health care and without other system laws in the field of health. Medicines are a very important segment of health care and in determining and exercising the right to health care, in particular, and in the case of doctrinal solutions and attitudes on their use in health care. The proposed bill, through the text of the law and through the arguments given by the law, meets very unequivocally only the needs of foreign drug manufacturers shown through the European Agency for Reconstruction, or through the European Union, and through the so-called harmonising our regulations with Union regulations, and those issues in the law better tackle - drug registration, quality control, clinical trials, while issues that are of interest to our subjects in the production and transport of medicines are barely touching, mainly declaratively or through criminal provisions and through the announcements of sublegal regulations that the minister will design and edit himself. The obligations imposed by law in terms of compliance with Union standards give privileges to medicinal products coming from the Union market to Serbia, but not with drugs from domestic producers, and not only that, but under the provisions of this law, five-year unfair conditions are created on the market of medicines in Serbia, for the benefit of foreign producers, and for the benefit of domestic producers. When it comes to the Agency and the medicines from imports, from the European Union, these medicines are not subject to a licence. So there's no toxicology, no chemical, no pharmacological, no clinical trial. They simply don't have to do that, but that's why the drugs leaving our market have to be screened. Of course, medicines coming from the European Union will be cheaper and more competitive on the market in Serbia, and our medicines will be much more expensive. Who should we sell these expensive drugs to? It may come to the fact that our factory production is going down, that our factories, which are the only ones in this country now making some profits, are going to be shut down, the workers are going to be fired, and then some bankruptcy managers are going to come along to document those factories!- I'm sorry. Finally, one of the basic issues of principle is what hastens Serbia to move hastily with this law before other health reform laws: before documents in the national drug policy, without a drug development strategy in the field of medicines in Serbia and a harmonisation strategy with Europe, instead of the proposed solution - harmonisation, i.e. reaching the highest European standards by October 1st, or two months after the adoption of this law?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5719	The word has the People's MP Goran Davidovic, and let Zoran Mašić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5720	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been irrevocably lost for the health of our population for the past 20 years. Basically, the health care development strategy was not based on health promotion. I will remind you that promoting health is a process of training people to increase control of their health and to improve it. Unfortunately, that people's "better to prevent than to treat" has not been applied, and we are now in a situation to treat a large number of diseases and, if we were to call on reports from the World Health Organization and on the list of so-called. 10 killers, who took the most life in the world, and in doing so, about 7.5 million people die from a heart attack, about 5.4 million from a stroke, these two diseases carry the largest number of lives in the world. Of course, these diseases have been put under control in the countries of Western Europe and the United States, but unfortunately, they are at the level of an epidemic on our country's territory and are precisely the result of a lack of insight into the need to put health promotion first, and at this point, we are, in practice, treating the consequences!- I'm sorry. In order for these consequences to be treated, we must also have adequate medications and medical remedies. For the first time in a law, which is on the agenda today, we can say that this law is a kind of harmonisation with the needs that the European Union is showing towards our country, and also with countries that expect to be, as we do, in the European Union. The reason for the adoption of one of these laws on medicines and medical means is the need to set certain standards in the field of medicines and medical resources, and above all to protect health, which meet European criteria and, on the other hand, to provide better conditions for development, progress and competitiveness in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as in other participants in health care, drug transport. These are also the preconditions for the progress and treatment of all these diseases that I mentioned. The aim of the adoption, which I have mentioned, is certainly also harmonisation in the field of medicines and medical means with the regulations in force in the European Union. The basic reason for this law is that in the process of production, transport, distribution and control of medicines and medical means, quality, safety and effective medicines, medical means, as a prerequisite for quality and safety health care. Of course, as medicines and medical resources are products of general interest, European standards include respect for certain principles, guidelines provided for by European Union directives, which will have to be respected in this law. The adoption of this law aims to establish new, more standards not only for patients, as end-users of health care, but also for society in general. So, also for the pharmaceutical industry, for the wholesales, for the organisation of mandatory health insurance, and I'm going to point out who's the subject of this law. First of all, the aim is to enable citizens, i.e. patients, as end-users of medicines and medical resources to use drugs and these funds through quality, safety and efficiency, to document and assess this in accordance with European Union standards. That's what hasn't been the case so far. Secondly, society in general, by forming one such agency for medicines and medical resources, will get a significant institution known to the European Union countries, as well as countries preparing to join the European Union. In this way, quality and standard will be increased in the process of assessing the quality of medicinal products and medical means, but also safety and efficiency, i.e. obtaining marketing authorisations for the same, and which is very important, monitoring the undesirable effects of medicinal products marked as pharmacovigilance, of course, in a scale with standards and directives of the European Union. In the third place for the pharmaceutical industry, by adopting this law, it can be expected to establish conditions for one necessary growth for development and competitiveness, and thus to survive on the market, which must not be closed. It does not say that this law opens our market only to foreign medicines and that it is to the detriment of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. On the contrary, the domestic pharmaceutical industry must operate according to world standards, and therefore we must force the domestic pharmaceutical industry to simply fit into what the needs of the world are and to keep that quality in line with the quality that exists in Europe. This law aims to create a market that is not closed, which fully operates by the rules and standards of Europe. This will create a legal framework for the smooth work and development of our domestic industry, but of course open space for foreign investment. The adoption of this law will create conditions for domestic producers to raise their own production standards in accordance with these standards, to create conditions for these medicines, which are produced in our country, to be exported to the world, and there are pharmaceutical houses that meet these conditions. Then, wholesalers, as an important element in the distribution of medicines and medical resources, can expect better conditions for work and development that are in line with European standards. Getting licences for the distribution of medicines and medical resources, in accordance with this law, will allow for a greater market for domestic wholesale drugs, and this is also how significant for all our wholesales, which, based on established standards, will allow further development, but not only for us but also for the European market. The organisation of health insurance, by adopting this law, can expect by establishing a system for obtaining licences for the transport of medicines and medical resources, as well as the control of medicines and these funds, based on the rules and parameters adopted in the countries of the European Union, to create conditions for competitiveness in the fields of medicines and medical means, and as a result of and a reduction in the prices of medicines and medical resources, but also the rational use of compulsory health insurance funds, which can certainly have an impact on the costs ahead and are related to the Health Insurance Fund. In the field of veterinary medicines, the adoption of this law is essential in ensuring quality, safety and effective medicines and medical means not only for the use of our patients, but also for the use of all those veterinary needs, which will contribute to establishing a higher level of animal health and safety. For the first time, for example, the country will provide a unique system of production, transport, control, obtaining a marketing authorisation, price, etc. for medicines used in veterinary medicine with human medicines. Overall, as regards the above, the proposal for a drug and medical law will provide the Republic of Serbia with quality, safe and effective medicines, in line with European Union standards. The establishment of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as a special professional organisation, which will deal with the issue of marketing authorisations for medicinal products and medical medicinal products, the issue of clinical examination licences, the authorisation of imports of unregistered medicinal products, the monitoring of unwanted drug reactions, its integration into international networks of information on medicinal products and medical medicinal products, will ensure the implementation of the European Directives and guidelines concerning both the area of production and the area of transport of medicinal products and medical products. The full safety of patients in a study of medicines, medical means will be ensured; then, the provision of accurate and understandable data on the medicinal product for the patient, through the introduction of a package leaflet used by the patient; the introduction of a new way of advertising medicine and medical resources in accordance with EU directives. Then, the provision of a system of control and supervision of entities in the production, transport and testing of medicinal products and medical products, as well as the control and supervision of medicinal products and medical means, in transport; the provision of a system of monitoring of unwanted drug reactions and respect for criminal policy; and, for the first time, the introduction of safeguard measures for the prohibition of action to violate certain provisions of this law. I want to say to this occasion that the DSS has given two amendments relating to drug control, which was the practice of countries that passed the transition process. It applies primarily to drug control and control of every drug series. I think that this amendment will be respected by the Government, and in this way we will be protected from all possible problems encountered by countries that did not respect the control of every series of medicines, and above all I think about the events that occurred in the past period in Croatia. In any case, the DSS will support the bill and we believe that for the first time, regarding this law, a certain order is being introduced. By passing this law, on medicines and medical resources, and we will certainly be closer to the EU, because these are the laws that the EU expects of us, which are the need, to standardise our services in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5721	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić, and let Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5722	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far this law has been mostly spoken of by the representatives of the medical profession, and here is the opportunity to hear both the opinion and the representatives of the veterinary profession. Given the fact that this law also enlarges the area of veterinary medicine, it means veterinary medicines. The legislator of the law in the light of the adoption of this law states that the basic reasons for the adoption of laws on medicines and medical means are to provide quality, safety and effective medicines and medical means in the process of production, transport, distribution and control of medicines and medical means, and that this is a basic prerequisite for quality and safety of human and animal health protection. This argument has a basis and I think it can be acceptable for all of us here to be representatives of the people. However, I know, Minister, that you were a minister in the previous DOS government and as a minister you had a responsibility, and now you have the responsibility to use quality and effective medicines in health care. The existing legislation must absolutely mean that we produce and register quality medicines. I am absolutely convinced that we have so far produced, registered and used quality medicines and medical means and that both in the protection of human health and in the protection of animal health. That the quality and efficiency of the drugs depends primarily on this and this law, this law would not be prepared and brought for four years, how long its preparation takes, but certainly would have to be brought much faster. But unfortunately, although this has taken so long to prepare and bring this law into line, as you do as a competent minister, and we MPs can see quite a number, over 100 amendments have been tabled. This proposal, at least from the point of view of a parliamentary group that is the largest here in this House, does not satisfy in a good part our vision of the organisation, control of production, transport, distribution, etc. What is my first objection to you is that this law was primarily done by a Dutch agency, this York, with very little and insufficient involvement by our experts, our expert public. I think that a modest public debate has been held in relevant places or in relevant institutions and associations, although this has taken so long to prepare, and I don't think our relevant expert public has made adequate contributions and proposals for appropriate solutions to the current state of play and opportunity. My opinion is, and I hope that the majority of those present, that we have enough expert and competent researchers, as institutions dealing with education, research and quality testing and the efficiency of medicines and medical resources. I also think that we have had a good system and organization and laboratory and clinical trials of medicines for use in human veterinary medicine. I, as a representative of the veterinary profession, will provide examples of how the procedure, obtaining or issuing a licence for the registration of a veterinary medicinal product has been implemented, because the veterinary medicinal products have been absolutely passing all the prescribed procedures. The institutions that worked on the registration of veterinary medicinal products were the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and two scientific research institutes were involved, which is: the Scientific Institute for Veterinary Veterinary in Belgrade and the Scientific Institute for Veterinary in Novi Sad. The persons who were interested in registering or issuing the licence, of course, applied first to the Ministry of Agriculture, and then to a sufficient quantity of the drug to be examined and all other necessary documentation was submitted to the competent institutions. Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, i.e. The pharmacology department conducted pharmacology-toxicology studies and recommended to institutions i.e. patients who have conducted clinical studies to conduct clinical studies, recommendations, doses, methods of administration and all else. And in scientific institutes laboratory tests have been carried out, the determination of the amount of active substance, purity, bacteriological correctness and all necessary and, ultimately, a clinical trial has been conducted. Complete documentation was established after the examinations were carried out and submitted to the competent commission at the Ministry of Agriculture who then considered all the documentation. The commission had very competent people from different areas of veterinary medicine. It was mostly pharmacologists, but also clinicians and other experts and, normally, on the basis of above all, valid pharmacology and toxicology studies and opinions, based on valid and established good quality of the drug, valid laboratory testing and based on conducted clinical trials and results of clinical trials, a single veterinary medicinal product authorisation was issued. A similar procedure is prescribed by you and by this law, only one institution, which you form as an agency, will carry out that part of the work for both veterinary and human medicines. The SRS is of the opinion that, in view of the current state of our ability, it should not have gone to the establishment of such an agency, especially that it would require such funds from the budget to be put into office. That's why we suggested a good number of amendments, and here we suggest another organisational form of drug testing. What I also want to suggest as an incomplete and good solution in this law is to define a clinical study of medicines. You have done part of the law and made recommendations and suggestions for a clinical study of medicinal products for human medicine. However, there is a large number of specificities of a clinical study of veterinary medicinal products given the number of species that may be treated with some medicinal product. Furthermore, on the generalised concern of proper treatment and humanity, this profit towards animals, so that in some countries it is prescribed which categories of animals can be tested. It is prohibited on young animals, burdensome animals, because these can be inhumane procedures and precisely for the purpose of and well-being I think that, together with fellow veterinarians and colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, it may, in one, be defined by two members to prevent free evaluations and the opportunities of those individuals and those institutions that will be doing clinical trials that and those studies work on animals and animal categories according to their choice!- I'm sorry. I join here with the evaluations of colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group that in defining drug control by the national control laboratory, although the amendment is proposed to change, I support that every series produced must be controlled. But it is not clear to me that, for example, in point 1) of Article 86, first and third indents, you do not precisely define that this is a national control laboratory obligation, i.e. one whose medicinal product is sent for control, and this is an examination for the authorisation of placing on the market or for the procedure of alteration and renewal or renewal of the authorisation (that is, in the indent 3). - you indicate that, if necessary, those laboratory tests in the control laboratory will be carried out at someone's discretion if necessary or if someone assesses that they do not need to work. I don't think that's right and that it's inadmissible, especially if it's an investigation into the issue of a marketing authorisation or an extension of a permit, that there is no need for laboratory testing in that national control laboratory. I want to point out, perhaps, incomplete solutions to drug surveillance. In the veterinary profession, major problems result in inadequate control and irregular drug trafficking, free supply and use without veterinary control and supervision. This may have far-reaching effects on the livestock production of our country, especially on the day we are allowed to export live animals, meat and food of animal origin. If we don't have the right, quality and evidence of surveillance in the use of veterinary medicinal products, we'll have the situation we may have 15 years ago -- that in the foods of animal origin that were exported, the residuals of certain drugs were found, and based on that, such supplies and the entire contingents had to be returned. So I don't think this law is the only thing that needs to be solved, but the veterinary law, but I think that's where the drug traffic is primarily regulated. In the domain of surveillance, it was necessary to define even more precisely to prevent these occurrences of uncontrolled use. We have a situation where veterinary medicines are sold in agricultural pharmacies and even at markets. You sanction the sale of drugs past the pharmacy, but, unfortunately, the fact that this law has been given as sanctions so far has been a minor punishment, so people have been abused. I believe that, in agreement with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, it was necessary to define and define the number of inspectors more precisely, because I think that's the problem. We in the state have few inspectors dealing with drug traffic. I would like to ask the question: if we are going to allow this law to produce quality, transport and all that will improve the problem of medicines, it is incomprehensible to me that this long transitional deadline is given for harmonisation - you are giving five years to comply with the rules of the manufacturer, traffickers or those who conduct studies and with the introduction of Good Manufacturing Practices guidelines, Good Practices in Distribution, Good Clinical Practices, Good Laboratory Practices. I think that this deadline should have been shorter if we really wanted those who produce medicines, those who do traffic and those who do drug studies to work modernly and to achieve what this law has promoted, that this deadline might be shorter, because certainly the introduction of these guidelines should improve the whole job. In the end, I want first of all to address you ministers directly with a request to inform the MPs, since it is certain that this medicine agency, regardless of what we Serbian radicals are against and what we will vote against, will be voted upon and founded, I am interested in "what budget projections", and I have watched the adopted budget and budget allocated to the Ministry of Health, "from which section, which functions and economic classifications will be allocated to the Agency's establishment". You predicted 90 million dinars, and looking at that budget of the Ministry of Health, I absolutely couldn't see that amount in the budget. It's about some larger numbers, so I'm wondering if it's possible to define more precisely the division of functions and economic classifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5723	The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to thank you all for the energy you've put into debate about this law. This is important for the Minister of Health and for the Ministry of Health, as well as for citizens who could see and understand what anyone is saying and what it looks like in this high house. When it comes to medicines and medical means, an area that is of interest to each of us. Sometimes when we're sitting in this bench, sometimes we need a cure, away from it, sometimes we need a cure for one of our own, and sometimes we're in a position to ask one of the questions that was mentioned today as a counterargument to this law as it comes to drugs today, so someone said to go in and buy everything you need without respecting procedure. It is an argument precisely for the adoption of such a law, because it results in a series of procedures that represent the setting up of an important area which, if it is not arranged today as the citizens of this country deserve, can cause even greater damage. Speaking of damage, the damage to the health system has actually been done in the 1990s, when the laws that regulate healthcare have introduced several things, against which there have been several debaters here, related to excessive centralization, related to the disenfranchisement of local self-government in this area as regards primary health care. I also, when I say thank you for the energy that you have brought into the debate, I thank you for showing good faith that by the end of this year you have more of these system laws, which will limit the system the way the citizens of this country deserve it. When it comes to reform, it is not bad in the Assembly when it comes to reforming the health system and reform in general, that the health minister repeats the definition of reform. "Reform is a change of ruling relations in a peaceful system and with a consensus of participants in the system." When it comes to health policy, the strategy and the Action Plan of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, in order to know the details of what has been done in this area and the details of the documents offered as a work version, because it is actually a document that is alive and not a Bible that is written once, and does not change a single letter in it, then I must say that the Assembly is one of the important fluids in this session, which will remain recorded and that the committees are collectively organised so that both ruling parties and opposition parties participate in them and that they are in the right way to contribute and to show how they are considering serious problems, how much they contribute to solving these problems, and how they complicate them. If there had been participation of all parties in the work of the Assembly Committee and in the previous meeting, then you would have known a lot more, many of you who are sitting in these benches right now, and you have sat in the last session, about what the strategy means. You would know that for several months this work version of the strategy was in the debate where some wanted to participate, and some didn't. So much for that. When reform is defined and said whether we are in reform - we are, because reform is not something that has a certain beginning and a certain end, it is a process. If the Assembly and the honourable MPs ask the Minister of Health as a representative of the executive government, so what have you done in this reform, then I will tell you that this month the first contract between the Insurance Fund and a municipal health home in the Kingdom is signed, where funding is regulated by that method of capitulation. If you ask the citizens of the Kings, they'll say they know what the chosen doctor is, that they know they don't have the chart he was, but their doctor has the electronic card, that they don't have to wait for the chart in the waiting room, but that file is in the doctor's computer, and he has a lot more time for them than before. It's starting a new practice. However, if we multiply the number of citizens that are covered by this project and calculate how many times we need more energy, money and time, I am convinced that you will agree with me and that it will not take us 30 times three years, and that is 90, but things need to change faster in this country, and this requires to experience the bill of medicines and medical means. The question was asked, and why not the chambers in the first place, and I'll tell you, do you know that the institution of the chamber exists in the current law, but has never been formed, because it was made in the 1990s as a conducting chamber, which does not give professional autonomy, which does not provide that chamber to be a right, national and professional institution. We will have a law that will regulate this area, as well as insurance and health care already very quickly. It's a thousand steps and probably thousands of steps to change the system to what we'd like to be, and if we don't at least take the first, we won't even take that thousand. What I want to tell you at this point, as Minister of Health, is that in the first session of the Assembly, after the first multiparty elections, in the 1990s, there were more than 50 doctors. This debate has another accent that's important. It is important that it can actually be felt, regardless of the different tones, that doctors, dentists, pharmacists and health professionals feel that this is the interest of citizens and the interest of the profession and that there is no room for excessive politics here. Political - yes, but politics - no. Also, not xenophobia, it's a regulation that regulates the openness of this country. Obviously, we must first all have a clear picture of where we want to take citizens and this country, whether our place in the European Union or not, because it is true that we have decades-old quality production of pharmaceutical products, and this system we want to fix is not in the air, but I am based on the foundations of a good tradition, but it needs a significant step. The system laws that follow are in order, I count, of course, on your support; there were words that maybe shouldn't be answered directly, but I'll just count. It's simply a public delusion of the story of any radioactivity of plasma, because of course there's no talking about it. It is also wrong to say that the professional public did not support the transfusion strategy, just the opposite, "it did support". As for the major incident with the transmission of HIV blood, it has been revealed precisely by the Ministry of Health, it has been all investigated and measures have been taken in a tragic case, which deserve a little more respect when quoted at all. As for hospitals, those other than primary protection, a major project of hospital reconstruction is in progress and the call for the signing of the contract and for changes in the financial relationship between the Fund and health institutions and citizens will be a clear message that the shift certainly has - because citizens remember 1990 and health workers when they worked for two or three marks in a month, when they had to wash one glove two or three times each, and when they had no elementary things to do their work. The dignity of health workers today and the dignity of the patient today, compared to that, are incomparable categories of every well-intentioned and serious man, as the MP would have to be. As for the directorship of health institutions in Serbia, I would like to say that the minister and the health ministry have, above all, respect, respect for the recognition of people who, after 2000, made it possible and helped along with all employees to get the health system from the position "on their knees" - "adjustment". They did a big and important job. At this point, however, the Minister and the Ministry need better co-operation, initiative, faster rhythm, better coordination, and that is why other people who will speed up the work that has already been started, in part and done. As far as veterinary circles are concerned, I will first link to the observations concerning the participation of professional circles in the making of laws, because I will remind you that this law was made in 2002, the work on it was started in spring. I'm proud to say that a team of health ministry lawyers has given their creative seal in these legal solutions that are invaluable. Of course, we also had the technical assistance of friends, but ask any pharmacist who deals with retail, wholesale, drug production, ask the representatives of drugs, or associations of foreign producers, and they will tell you how much the profession took part in the creation of this law, because it is difficult to find a law in which the profession took more part. I am convinced that you will understand, especially healthcare professionals in this assembly, that this many hours of debate on health care is the beginning and that we need much more, and in this sense I will give myself the right to say, in the end, one of the important things that the Ministry of Health has initiated and has done the signing of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. This Convention is addressed to ratification of the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament, and then we have a serious job ahead that supports us and obliges as a state to ban advertising within two to five years, to limit consumption. I call on the Serbian Parliament, as I called on the Health and Family Committee, which did it, to drive out "supply smoke" from these rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-19-0.u5725	I owe you one notice. Tomorrow at 10:15 is the 16th session of the Finance Committee. According to Article 94(2), we are finishing the session now and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Since the use of the electronic system has shown that 77 MPs are present, I am giving a break by 11.30 p.m.
