ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5728	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 100, 219, 220 and 221. But before I give an explanation, I ask you to allow me to read a subtitle in a daily newspaper: "Serbian Parliament pays to buy clothing to the national tribunals under the Law on Public Procurement, but there is no rare item in the accounts - children's clothing room." I ask the President of the National Assembly to assign appropriate services to check the information, and to inform the MPs and the National Assembly, whether this inscription is correct or not, and to determine whether the "national tribunals" - are MPs or "national tribunals" - are employees in the Republic Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5729	Thank you. From this pay phone we can confirm, "no MP under any law gets any clothes," but the denials will be published, and this was not conditional upon the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vucicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the drug and medical law is a law that will surely be passed here this week in this assembly. Namely, this is about harmonising our regulations and harmonising our regulations with EU regulations. It is certain that there are always certain fears about change, and usually people who have acquired certain habits of fear, fear of new ones, fear of change. What causes this law's greatest controversy? The biggest controversy was caused by the agency because some people have fear of who will run that agency, how they will run that agency, and what all these agencies have to do! What is certain is that this agency will have professional and quality people, who will absolutely be able to do the work for which they are delegated. Of course, professional people will work in the agency, and the agency will be entitled to work, as well as the obligation to report to the republican authorities twice a year, which means that the agency will be controlled by the Republic government. Who's in the Republic Government? The Minister of Health is also in the Republic government, so the Ministry will control it. In addition to the agencies, a major controversy on the Health Committee, and for this speaker, was challenged by a member of the drug control law. There were stories on the Committee, and most of the Committee members were for each drug series to be controlled. As a member of the Committee, in front of New Serbia, I never considered it necessary to represent myself on this Committee of Party and Political Programmes, but I acted as a doctor, and that was the agreement of all people on the Committee when it was formed, to represent the interests of citizens, our patients and to do everything to make health care better and better. No matter how much I highly appreciate the President of the Committee, Mr Momchilov, who is an exceptional expert, my colleague Kragujevcan, Mr Poskurit, when this member of the law was and when amendments to this article were discussed, I absolutely wanted to support their amendment and the DSS amendment - to introduce this clause, that "every series must be checked." Unfortunately, I voted "yes," and they were "sustained," which, in a way, caused my revolt -- which is why you were abstaining when you criticized that member of the law and filed the amendment?- I'm sorry. Of course, the answer is simple: we can now criticize this speaker. It's not right! It's not okay, not because of this assembly, but because of the patients we're up for and for the citizens of Serbia who have delegated us here. That's true. We must do the harmonisation of this law, to bring our laws in line with the laws of the countries of the European Union, if we want to co-operate with the European Union. There has been a lot of talk here about whether Serbia is in Europe. Serbia is in Europe and no one from Europe can territorially exclude it! What matters is, does anyone want to cooperate with us or won't cooperate? In order for someone to cooperate with us, we must harmonize our laws with European laws. Therefore, all the efforts of this law, the aim of this law is, in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the interest of patients, in the interest of better health care, to harmonize with all the countries of the European Union, so that we can make co-operation. We are confident that this law will be extremely good, and that it will enable our country to co-operate with the countries of the European Union. Of course, there's something that's good, but there's something that we think needs to be changed in this law. What's good is that we will have co-operation with the European Union; that the law is of quality; that we will have quality medicines, that we will have a better security market and that order will be introduced in the pharmaceutical industry. What I think we need to think about and change, to adopt these amendments, which is -- that every series of drugs is controlled. Why is it necessary to control every batch of drugs? It's necessary because mistakes and failures are expensive. I'd remind the Minister of Health of his French colleague when there was too much failure. I think the minister, after taking off that post, is sentenced to long-term imprisonment, which means that in countries where high standards are high, too, failures can happen. It's certain that a failure can happen with us. At the end of the line, what are your failures and what are the consequences of such failures? Now let's remember what happened when a girl was infected with HIV! It is a tragedy that cannot be justified, even by any legal measure! For that reason, I'd like to tell a short story when your father left two letters in his son's inheritance and said, "Son, open one letter when it's the hardest time for you, and this second one opens when it's best for you and you think you've done the best in your life." The son fell into a difficult situation, unembarkable, so he remembered that his father had asked him to open a letter. He opened the letter and read it, and the letter said, "Son, it will pass." He went through all this, he achieved great success, and then he remembered the second letter, he opened the second letter, and the second letter said, "It will pass." We're all MPs here today, and maybe tomorrow most of us won't be. Today is Mr. Tomica - Minister, and maybe there won't be tomorrow, but we have to make a good law and we have to fight for this amendment to be adopted in this assembly, regardless of what, we'll all use these drugs tomorrow, our children will use them. Every failure is very unpleasant and pulls on a terrible coincidence. That is why I would like to ask, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of New Serbia and New Serbia MPs, on behalf of the citizens of Šumadija and my Kragujevcans who have delegated me, that Mr Tomica Milosavljevic accept, if both amendments are necessary, the DSS amendment and the SRS amendment, because they are the same and to introduce control of each batch of medicines. It will be good for this congregation as well. If it is necessary for this assembly to vote, believe me, Members of Parliament, it is in your interest and the interest of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5731	National MP Paja Momcilov, a replica, afterwards has Dragoslav Milkovic, and let Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5732	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I was mentioned here by my colleague Vukicevic, and I already tried to explain our position yesterday, radicals, in the Health Committee when we voted on the disputed article 86. I repeat, radicals have given their amendment and this amendment has not been adopted by the Committee members. Don't ask us so much of masochism, or even for the love of position, to vote for the same amendment proposed by the DSS. I guess we have to be for our amendment, I guess that's basic logic. There's no other reason for that, no distraction from this congregation. When we go out for this pay phone, we can document everything we say and it's on solid and stable grounds of truth. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5733	National MP Dragoslav Milkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5734	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the purpose of the amendment, and otherwise all of my efforts, is not to increase the administration, not to spread old areas of corruption and not to create new areas of corruption. I listened and read the arguments motivated by Europeanisation, but I remain confident that the agency, by the number of personnel, will be another ministry and that there will be a continuation of what we already have experience with, which is, huge corruption in the field of medicines and a huge experience with repacking and the Far East -- I mean China. After all, if you want to sacrifice huge funds to pay for a segment, which is known in advance to make us "happier," it would be best, as you're about to, to go to the establishment of a drug department, so at least we'll know who's directly responsible for what's waiting for us. What I'm about to say is, at first sight, it's not about medication, but it's about treatment. So I have three applications. I refer one to the Minister of Health, Mr Milosavljevic, and two to God. I ask the Minister to come to the Shop, and I pray to God, first, to help the Minister really come to the Shop, and secondly, that the Minister will have a toothache, so that he can ask for his toothache at the Shop. Did you know that in more than a year's time in the House of Health at the Shop, a dental chair couldn't have been repaired. There's not a single dentist's chair in the town of Trest now, Mr. Minister. At the health center in Vranj, whose "government" is the Home of Health Shop, all preoccupations are in sign of which parties will be directors, which centres, which hospital, which homes of health. There, but in Vranj, progress has been made in getting scanners, more X-rays, anaesthesia apparatus, more ultrasounds, ECG devices, a new coronary unit, a renovated psychiatry. That's good. But the Department of Commerce doesn't have a dentist's chair, because the existing one's been broken for over a year. The Department of Health at the Shop has only one sanitary vehicle. The terrain is 100% mountain-mounted. Patients are being delivered to horses, and we're going to Europe! I request the minister to urgently provide one of the field sanity vehicles for the Health Home at the Shop. I'm gonna end up with a little story that tells us that we're still in the Shop in 1958. In that year, my friend, the collector of language, fine pearls, took off the door of a joint store notice that the head of the local office informs his subjects that a dentist is coming to the headquarters on that day and that day, and I have this paper from 1958 with me, which means "for tooth extraction". Now he's no longer arriving, and the dentist's chair is broken. Instead of solving vital health problems, the minister solves his party's problems. It sets up health and hospital directors in Serbia, and we in the SRS think Minister Milosavljevic should resign and free Serbia's health care G17 Plus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5735	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic, to prepare Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5736	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on medicines and medical means. The law creates a condition for the development of the pharmaceutical industry, for foreign investment and export of medicines and medical resources. MPs of the G17 Plus Group will support and vote in favour of this law. In June 2003, an Action Plan was adopted to bring more than 50 laws in line with European Union regulations. It is necessary to harmonise both the legislative and institutional system. The adoption of this law will result in multiple benefits, primarily for citizens, who are both end-users and who will get better quality and more effective medicines. He'll get information about medical supplies anyway. The company will get an agency - a specialised institution that all countries have, which will certainly enable and guarantee both higher quality and higher standard. For the first time, there is a notion of pharmacovigilance, which indicates the unsolicited facts of the drug and drug interaction. The pharmaceutical industry will benefit from this law, standardisation will be achieved, and a good producer and distribution practice will certainly be achieved. This is how growth, development and competitiveness of production are achieved. Veledrogeria will certainly have positive effects after the adoption of this law. The conditions for work and development will certainly be in line with European Union standards. The license provides conditions for market expansion and the possibility of winning the foreign market. And, once again on the many positive effects of this law: we will have quality medicines, develop competitiveness, complete safety in a clinical trial, adequate patient guidance, a new way of advertising medicine, as a start and introduction to standardisation and a new form of advertising; a system of control, supervision and advertising, which will also enable us to make the manufacturer's expertise, tightening criminal policy -- we will have a ban on action as an ultimate safeguard. In the veterinary field, the adoption of this law will provide quality, safe and effective medicines, and certainly, with adequate and rational use and the application of these medicines, we will get the ultimate results, which are quality and safe life supplies. The G17 plus advocates the disappearance of the gray economy from the streets, but also the drugs from the liquor counters. Let us not allow our citizens to buy drugs according to the color or design of the box in which the medicine is packed, often with the past deadline, then, drugs that are altered from poor storage! Let's face it, everyone does their job best, and we're not afraid of real people coming to the right places! Let us not doubt their expertise, for in the end we will only prevent unloved phenomena that are life-threatening and easy to earn in another’s accident! Let's be modern society and be responsible for ourselves, but let's be responsible, first of all, for generations to come. Let's leave them a chance to have safety and a chance for quality healing. G17 plus keeps his promises. As we know, in a pre-election campaign in December 2003, we promised a new legislation in the field of health care. We have before us the first of four system laws. We know the laws are the first step in creating a new health system. The ultimate goal of the G17 plus is to create a long-term health system for the long-term and overall improvement of the health of the population. I urge you to vote for this law. Let this be the first step and contribution to health reforms and another step towards modern and orderly society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5737	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, to prepare Zoran Micovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5738	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, yesterday the minister, at the end of the session, sort of commented on the presentation of MPs, and therefore I felt the desire to replicate yesterday, because of one sentence, for which there was no business opportunities -- referring to the presentation of fellow MP Goran Cvetanovic, who spoke about the planned reform of the Transfusion Service of Serbia, the minister said, quote "the professional public has supported the reform strategy of the Transfusion Service". I hope I have time to look back on it, but it's my turn to say first something about today's session itself, and that's this proposed drug law. Even though the drug law has no direct impact on the state and supply of the drug market, it is still the turn to say something on the subject. What is the situation, i.e. the supply, i.e. the ability of patients to get medications on the burden of the Health Insurance Fund. The fact is it's so-called. The democratic government, which arrived on October 5th, 2000, found a truly tragic situation in the supply of state pharmacies to medicines. Then there was a shortage of drugs and state pharmacies seemed dreary and depressing. The reason for this was objective, and there was no need to talk about it at all, anyway, the country was just out of a state of complete isolation, after NATO aggression, and before we had severe economic sanctions in the past decade. So the situation was indeed tragic in this regard. What's the status today? Today, pharmacies provide a much better picture. Supply is satisfactory. However, with a little exaggeration, I can say that today's state pharmacies are a kind of Podokin village, namely, drugs in state pharmacies are the most used for watching. What's this about? Where's the secret? The secret is that instead of drug shortages, there was "a shortage of prescriptions" to prescribe these drugs. And all citizens in Serbia know that. The situation is catastrophic in this regard, especially in towns within Serbia, and as far as Belgrade and other major cities are concerned, the situation is somewhat better. This is the situation in most Serbian cities. Whether under the direct authority of the Ministry or the Health Fund, health institutions are drastically limited contingents of recipes they receive! One health care facility receives a number of recipes for a certain period. Sometimes it's a three-month period, once a month, it's divided by the head of doctors who have the right to prescribe recipes. And what happens in practice? If fellow doctors prescribe normal recipes, they will spend about a quarter of the time they received these recipes. Then colleagues get along as they know and know it, so you don't get into an awkward situation to, say, spend their prescriptions for that month by 5:00 a.m. On the spot, they come up with a variety of options, so they leave patients with four proposed drugs by specialists to choose one who will prescribe them and then usually advise, suggest that it be the most expensive medicine. Then most medical institutions made some informal decisions -- not to prescribe drugs that are cheaper than 100 dinars. Anyway, the fact is, the shelves in the state pharmacies are fuller, but patients are just as hard to get their meds. While we had a situation before that the patients had a bunch of unused and unusable recipes, we now have a situation where we have medications on the shelves of the pharmacy, but the prescriptions are not for the cure. What's the essential feature of the law we're discussing today? My colleagues have already said that without some logical order, therefore, the adoption of a strategy and health care policy did not precede the adoption of health care laws, health insurance laws, etc. Also, the other essential feature of this law is the creation of unfair conditions on the drug market. In fact, foreign companies will get a privileged position on the domestic market, as they are maximumly liberalising market entry with financial relief. This is achieved once, at first sight, by an inconspicuous, benign provision of legislation that prescribes the optional quality control of each batch of drugs, which remains a obligation for domestic companies. This reduces the costs of foreign drug placements on our market, and on the other hand, the obligation to control medicines allows foreign companies to place on our market specifically intended for the production batch of medicines. For us in the SRS, a particular challenge in the analysis of this law was a possible reason for such solutions, i.e. the question of what his creator was doing in making. The only rational explanation is that some of our politicians and some political parties are returning legal concessions to the money and other assistance they receive from some foreign donors. "Two and a half billion euros of donor money has entered Serbia, and no one lives knows where!" Better to say Serbian citizens don't see any effect, no improvement in the standard of living than those couples, but by following the mysterious way of donations we'll see that there are individuals who have felt the benefits of these donations. There are political parties, the establishment of these political parties, which have developed a methodology of personal and group wealth on donor projects to perfection. The principle is to connect with authorised individuals, donor representatives, to fit into the process of achieving the donor project of their people from Serbia, and then on the principle of "you – me", most of the money ends up at the expense of individuals or political parties. Serbia remains projects, elaborates. Some projects also refer to amendments to the law and are often compensated by grants through planned changes of laws. We have the most dangerous phenomenon here. In the invested foreign money, which mostly ends up in other people's pockets, Serbia reciprocates by passing laws that will have long-term, harmful consequences for the country. The changes to the law imposes on the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian public the need to bring legal legislation into line with European solutions. This is how personal and party interests are promoted as European solutions. Such laws are obviously against the interests of our country, and hence those who have critical objections to such legal solutions are declaring the brakesters of European integration. The drug law could, in one respect, be considered a law on selling the domestic market to large pharmaceutical corporations and we will feel its effects in the near future. The question is, are Serbian citizens prisoners of European indecision in the fight against crime, funded, the money of European and tax taxpayers? Can domestic politicians stand in the way of destroying vital institutions to sell foreign markets? The law is the first legal project by the Ministry of Health and goes with a trail of other laws imposed on Serbia by solutions with long-term, harmful consequences. We have also studied this text with increased consideration because we have evidence earlier that the Ministry of Health is playing with health care and vital national interests. An example of this was planned and a reform of the Transfusion Service of Serbia was launched. We see here in action what the so-called harmonisation looks like with EU regulations. A fivem-euro donor project by the European Agency for Reconstruction has planned a reform course. : 1) Unifying services in a single continent; 2) introducing ISO standards; 3) introducing a single information system that monitors blood from a voluntary donor to a patient;4) standardisation of equipment and supply of missing equipment;5) upgrading of the national plasma fractionation centre and, 6) increasing the volume of voluntary giving. But what happens in practice? Instead of such reforms, the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Blood Transfusion in co-operation with the foreign consulting house Sofreco for unexplained reasons changes the character of reforms and calls for harmonisation with Europe to offer solutions that do not exist anywhere in Europe. In other words, they offer solutions that will completely destroy this ministry. The reformers themselves acknowledge that the solutions they offer are experimental, that they do not exist in any country, that they are nationally harmful, but that they must be accepted because they are supposed to be a dictatorship of Europe. The proposed law introduces the principles of rigid centralisation instead of uniting the service - blood transfusion services are abolished in all health centres, with only the Institute in Belgrade and two institutions, in Nis and Novi Sad. The only reason for this kind of centralization can be in control of the raw materials. Raw materials, it's a blood plasma from voluntary donors, which will be sent to further processing abroad. In fact, it is planned to shut down the domestic production of stable blood products with an explanation that our national plasma fractionation centre does not meet European standards. However, on the official website of the European Agency for Reconstruction, it says that Serbia's annual needs for albumin, immunoglobulins, coagulation factors and other stable plasma products are about 25m euros, and only fivem euros would be enough for the purchase of missing equipment to operate according to the highest standards. So someone in this country defines that it imports something worth 25m euros annually, instead of investing fivem euros in domestic production. To be paradoxical, an official of the same European Agency for Reconstruction declares that he is not satisfied with such solutions, but that he cannot influence them because they insist on blood transfusions and the health ministry. Because of such scandalous solutions, the ministry insisted that the announced reform should not be met by transfusiologists. The Health and Family Committee immediately after the constitution received a presentation of a group of transfusiologists struggling to get in the way, to prevent such a harmful reform. After we met with the play, a decision was made on the Committee to invite transfusiologists who sent us a play to come to the meeting of the Committee to which we will call the Minister of Health. That's what happened. The Committee's session was attended by a personal health minister, took part in the Committee's work, was attended by transfusiologists, presentations and came from the director of the Blood Transfusion Institute. After that session, the Committee formulated Conclusions at one of the next sessions and the same Conclusions, if I recall correctly, with only one "restricted" vote and all the other "for" adopted those Conclusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5739	Mr. Nedeljkovic, can I ask you to talk a little bit about the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5740	I will read to you the conclusions of the Health Committee, and probably the President of the Assembly does not want to further spread the story on this subject, because it is in some way involved in the later-onset controversy, not to say conflict, between the Minister of Health and the Health Committee. The conclusions, these famous conclusions that have so excited the public, the professional public in Serbia, reads: 1) The reform of the Transfusion Service of Serbia, as announced on the official website of the Ministry of Health, is not well designed and unsustainable. Blood is collected throughout Serbia, transported, processed and tested in three centres and centralizedly decides how many who and where it is needed. Whether blood will arrive on time for medical institutions depends on current weather conditions, road conditions, technical maintenance of vehicles, etc. 2) Transfusionologists are not sufficiently familiar with the announced reform, nor are they involved. The recommendation of the Health and Family Committee is that all proposals for a service reform solution should be given a positive opinion of the Serbian Medical Society's Transfusion Section. 3) The work and survival of the National plasma fractionation centre obtained by the processing of blood of voluntary donors at the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute should not be questioned. 4) The future reform of the service must not be predicated through public procurement and equipment for the Transfusion Service. So far, public procurement from donor funds has been directed exclusively to institutions in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. So you see that these conclusions are no big deal. We mainly address the Ministry of Health to respond to these remarks and the Ministry rebuked the Committee, and especially the President of the Committee, because he dared to adopt these conclusions by deeming that the procedure was not respected - that the minister had not previously been informed of the transfusiologist’s performance and that before the conclusion was made, the Committee was obliged to consult the Ministry in some way. However, the minister was informed of the performance, he was invited and personally participated in the Committee's session, during an explanation of the performance. As for procedural errors, that is, the accusation that the Committee violated the Rules of Procedure, that it had no right to draw conclusions, we did not find such restrictions in the Rules of Procedure. In a letter from the Minister of Health to the President of the Assembly, the minister prays that in the future work of the Committee, the Committee president be prevented from manipulating the public in this way. The speaker of the assembly did not specifically address us about this letter of the minister, and then, 25. June, the minister is taking the next step, which is: a proposal or request to the Committee to bring these conclusions "undo". I don't know if there's anything else in parliamentary practice, I don't even remember that in this House, the resolute minister asked the board to annul the previous conclusions. What does that tell us? This tells us that the Committee's conclusions have produced some kind of fact or the minister thinks they can produce some fact. We have no illusions that the Committee's conclusions will produce any fact in Serbia, but it is the fact that the Committee's conclusions, in all likelihood, have drawn the attention of Europe, or the donor, that something is happening with the donor project.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5741	Mr. Nedeljkovic, there is no doubt, according to the Rules of Procedure, the 99th speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I once warned you of an MP's request, I warn you once again, speak kindly of the subject. You have plenty of time, four more minutes, and you're absolutely right, everything else in the Rules of Procedure will be settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5742	I will now briefly refer to the Minister's finding that the expert public has supported the strategy of this reform. What's this about? The professional public supported the originally declared strategy for reforming the Transfusion Service, but did not support subsequent changes. The Serbian medical society, i.e. the Transfusion Section, is against such solutions. But what's going on? This is what happens, in order to sort of break the Serbian Doctor's Society's Transfusion Section, to violently make changes in human resources by violating the Statute of the Serbian Doctor's Society. After the resignation of former section president Gradimir Bogdanovic, a new section president, Dr Branko Cali, was legally elected in accordance with the Statute, completely legitimate. He was elected by a secret vote at the Serbian Doctor's Society Assembly. Afterwards, Dr Branko Calija led the Transfusiological Section of the Serbian Medical Society, and when this topic was on the agenda, reform of the Transfusion Service, suddenly Dr Bogdanovic made remarks on his choice several months earlier. A procedural error was found. Namely, the secretary of the Serbian Doctor's Society did not rule on the election of Dr. Branko Calia regularly seduced some books, protocols, so the extortion of Dr. Branko Calia's shift -- he was elected second, to a great dissatisfaction with the professional public. We hope that this Parliament and the general public on this reform of the Transfusion Service will persist in the fight, that they will support the brave individuals who are scrupulous in the service and that the MPs will only take the right stance on this issue, that they will manage their security rather than blind party discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5743	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of answering the Rules of Procedure now, but I was drawn to and provoked by the anxiety of the G17 Minister and MPs plus to report to the Rules of Procedure now. Mr. Nedeljkovic was talking about reorganizing... (President: Excuse me, what point is injured, excuse me? ) Article 193. So, he spoke. Goran Cvetanovic) on the reorganisation of Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service and I want to now address Mr. President of the Assembly under Article 193. The Rules of Procedure, because on 19 March 2004, I...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5745	Excuse me, Mr. Jovanovic, this is an extraordinary session, and at an extraordinary session, I have already explained to the MPs that a parliamentary question can only be asked if it is enabled in a meeting and I have introduced all MPs to it. Thank you, be kind, finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5746	So, I'm not asking a parliamentary question, I just want an answer to the parliamentary question I asked on March 19th, in writing I delivered to the President of the Assembly, as Minister of Health. The issue concerned precisely the reorganisation of Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service, and that answer I could wait for for at most 30 days I haven't received yet. I'm interested in exactly what's going on with "that question of mine," or the answer to the "it" question. Who broke the Rules of Procedure and why didn't I get an answer within 30 days?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5747	I thank you, you will get the answer, excuse me, be kind, have no reason, forgive Mr. Jovanovic, please, you have no reason to urge an MP to violate the Rules of Procedure which I have just pointed out. Well done, Mr. Jovanovic, you will get an answer and we will get a reply from the minister, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Please, the word has a People's MP, Zoran Micovic. Wait, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, it is unprecise, undemocratic, and it is incorrect for you to act this way. And it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the specific question asked by MPs Zlatan Jovanovic. You could have waited for the distinguished colleague, Zlatan Jovanovic, to direct the question to the minister, nor would the minister fall off his head, because he has been acting here as an offended bride, for two days now, not coming out, not answering anything, and I suggest to Mr Markovic, you should have waited. Instead of making it impossible for your colleague Jovanovic to ask the whole public a question, you should take care of how it works and how the Assembly works.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5749	Article 100, item 3. First warning, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5750	I'll tell you, Mr. Markovic, don't be so impatient, I don't know, the gentlemen who come in from the technical service and to you, I'll tell you, that the circus in this assembly would be bigger and bigger, and he is obviously from day to day, because of the absence of the majority, because of the lack of quorum, because of the inconclusive attitude of one minister and the other, and now we have a report from the Committee of Finance of the National Assembly on amendments submitted to the law on gambling. Mr. Markovic, the debate has passed in principle, the debate has passed in detail. Is that an emergency procedure and a member of the Rules of Procedure says, I mean Article 159. - if the relevant committees do not deliver their opinion on the proposed amendments until the start of the debate on the law in particular, the Assembly may continue to work, i.e. the course of the session in particular, which we have done when it comes to amendments to the law on gambling. But, post-festum, two days later, when we talk about the drug law, when there's another minister here from G17, who's also deaf about everything the MPs are telling him -- that you're giving us the opinions of the board of directors, not that it's sad, but that you should worry about that fact. You're going to tell me now, you know, it's not the day to decide on the amendments yet. What does that mean? How the service works, how the committees function, and how you view the MPs, you should ask yourself and make sure that, in accordance with your knowledge, domestic and world literature and literature, allow MPs to have a free view of interpretation and their attitude on the proposed drug law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5751	I thank you for your interpretation. I ask MP Zoran Micovic to take the floor, let Predrag Mijailovic-Lune prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5752	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the DS will support this bill, but I sincerely hope that the amendments will improve this matter that we've been talking about these two days. In fact, the law generally processes very superficially the regulation of medicines intended for use in veterinary medicine. This applies, above all, to the jurisdiction which has been allocated to some members, so that the responsibility of veterinary medicinal products is conferred on the Minister of Agriculture, or the Resort Ministry, which holds the sector, and yet in other members, only has the responsibility of the Minister of Health. This is the case with Article 32, under which the Minister of Health prescribes the methods and conditions of prescription of medicinal products intended for use in animals; in Article 36. - The Minister of Health prescribes the content of the authorisation for placing the medicinal product on the market intended for use in animals, or of Article 79 under which the Minister of Health prescribes conditions for the import of medicinal products intended for use in animals without authorisation for placing on the market. So look at those two members, they're collapsing. In these cases, I believe that jurisdiction must only be held by the Minister of Veterinary Affairs, as provided for in the other members of the law. For example, the Minister responsible for veterinary affairs prescribes conditions for the registration of veterinary medicinal products by a shortened procedure, which is Article 35, as well as a regulation relating to the modification and addition of the marketing authorisation, but not the content of the marketing authorisation, which is regulated by Article 36. On the other hand, the health minister, under the proposal of this law, prescribes conditions for the import of medicinal products for which they do not have a marketing authorisation, but is not clear on the basis of which criteria. I believe that jurisdiction must be clearly defined, because otherwise it comes, or we are coming into a situation that is really about specific problems related to veterinary medicine, and in terms of medicines, in particular, in particular health care, which does not deal with this problem, or in the organisation, has a service capable of assessing and doing so. This was said yesterday by counterpart Zoran Masic and his exposure is in line with these remarks. The second part of the law to an insufficient extent and in an insufficient degree deals with the specific problem of veterinary medicinal products, these are clinical trials. Therefore, in the law it is very precisely defined when it comes to human medicines, for example, it is not taken into account that a number of different types of animals are being treated in veterinary medicine, which is also the condition of the specificity of the clinical study of the medicinal product. Very often one medicine is registered for more animal species, but there is a need for already registered medicines to be registered for more recent species and when it is carried out after clinical trials, then it is certainly necessary to sign a veterinary minister or one of the areas that regulates the sector. The law must, in the case of clinical trials, provide for such a situation, and in this respect Article 53 must be corrected. On the other hand, the law does not provide for protection measures and the interests of animal owners on which a clinical examination of the medicinal product is carried out, as well as their obligations and rights, except in the event of compensation or damage. As a result, we believe that it is necessary to correct the members of 56 and 57 and enable the owners of animals to be fully informed, i.e. to lay down the rights relating to clinical trials of medicinal products on their animals. It is particularly important that the law also provides for veterinary medicinal products to enter into the new national pharmacopoeia, which will facilitate the control and laboratory testing of veterinary medicinal products. Also, we believe that the issue of drugs and withdrawals is not sufficiently regulated by law. However, it is a specific and very important problem in veterinary practice. If our national interest in exporting meat, milk, and other products of animal origin, this part of the regulation must be well worked out, both in the drug law and in the animal health law. Our regulations must provide for European standards if we want to export safe and healthy food. In the current bill, with a few sentences, this problem has been regulated, and there it has been missed that the percentage relating to the MRLs – the maximum level of residuals – is not the highest concentration of the medicinal product in foods obtained from animals, but also the level of metabolites in this medicine. Finally, it is not clear why the law stipulates that the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision on criteria for the formation of prices for human medicines, and not ever the drugs for use in animals. The government is making a decision on prices, and I don't think this absurdity is well explained. I believe that in the case of veterinary medicinal products, it must remain that the Government decides only on criteria for the establishment of the price of veterinary medicinal products. Such a law is necessary in order to harmonise regulation on the issue of medicines, with agreement, with EU regulations, but some specificities related to our conditions and situations must be introduced into the law. I think, at least, the part about veterinary medicines can be corrected by amendments. I've worked on 23-24 amendments, and I don't think they're essentially going to damage this law and they can accept it, they're just going to technically improve it and fix the matter that I'm talking about right now. It's in the interest of the veterinary profession and in the interest of the health of our patients. In the end, I have to look back, Mr. Minister, on the incident you've caused in Casca, don't mind me, but I think you've scored a clean auto goal, with the replacement of an extremely good director, Mr. Costa Milosevic, who is in co-operation with Ariel and other places. So it's about full consistency between local self-government and health homes, because health is general and does not know the parties, and there everyone, like us in Ariel, has made an effort to get all those things needed to improve health. After four years of working in such an institution, I think you've made it possible to disqualify this man with a shift ahead of this election and running for chief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5753	Thank you, Mr. Micovic. The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijailović-Lune, and let Vesna Lalic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the drug law and the medical means of the DSS will support and vote in favour of this law. What defined the DSS to support this bill? The human and economic reasons it contains, and which give, this law. The adoption of this law, on the economic side, in the field of medicines and medical resources, will introduce EU standards. What does that mean for our pharmaceutical industry, which can be said to be good, that it can export drugs to the EU and around the world? We are opening the door for exporting drugs and will make it a smaller trade deficit than the EU and the rest of the world. We know very well that we have a major trade deficit. Here's a real chance for our pharmaceutical industry to go into the world, to win, to have a better flow of foreign exchanges, so that we can invest not only in the pharmaceutical industry, but in agriculture, in the economy, in health, etc. On the human side, what does this law get? With this law, first of all, patients are given what by passing this law we will have safe and quality drugs of domestic production and medicines imported from abroad that meet European standards. We know that Europe has very high standards, primarily protecting its patients. That's how we have to protect our patients. Unfortunately, there are medicines in the world that are produced and not in European standards. Why do we all want to ride in the Mercedes, maybe the Porsche, not some trabantes or our south? We need to raise the standard in the design of drugs, as we want the flag to be straight to Mercedes tomorrow, so we need to make our industry be in that quality so it can export around the world. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices provides quality and effective medicines and medical remedies in the process of production, transport and distribution and control of medicinal products and medical means, which is a prerequisite for providing patient health care. Yes, to the quality of DSS drugs insists, does not give up its amendments to members 86 and 133. - We're asking that every batch of imported drugs must be controlled. We don't want to be told the story like we used to, when the drugs came from China, to fill whole pillars of yellow press or make newspapers, that they were non-quality drugs. Our people must trust the government, the Ministry. This obligates, first of all, the Ministry and our doctors sitting here, so we have to think about our patients. We all need to know that every sick man, look at you here, let's just have a toothache, it's important for you to stop the pain -- that's how every sick man just wants to get better, and only he can get better if he takes a good and good cure. As long as we are healthy, we have 1,000 wishes, a sick man only has one wish - to heal! That's why ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have to think well and always about what a sick man's basic wish is. I have to say that, as a man and a DSS, we support this law and because of Article 47, where the government is given the possibility to set the criteria for forming the price of medicines, based on the criteria it gets from the Minister of Trade and the Minister of Health, because otherwise, if there was a free market here, in that situation we would be very quickly flooded with foreign medicines; we have to protect our patients, given that they can buy a cure, or our Fund can give a certain amount of medicine to pharmacies, with a positive list. Otherwise, it would be different, there would be shortages and only people with money could be treated. This is not the goal of this government, because the DSS and the government, run by Vojislav Kostunica, is national and state-of-the-art. That is why we support this law for humanitarian reasons, above all, and another reason is economic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5755	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Lalic, to prepare Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is my great pleasure today to really speak for this speaker about the drug law and medical means. You know there have been several attempts to get this law into congregation procedure. Here, we've been discussing him since yesterday. I will remind you that the Law on Transport of Medicinal Products and Medical Resources was passed in March of 1993 and it was not in itself a reform law, but it has been maintained all these years. This law, which we are now passing, is very important to me, first because it has a social interest, and as a doctor, I would say that I am sorry that there is no law in the procedure today on the medical chambers, first of all, because I think that we doctors must finally organize ourselves into a professional, esnafic organization that will ultimately really protect the interests of our doctors. I would say that this law regulates the conditions for the production and transport of drugs and medical supplies, and regulates supervision in that area. One Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices shall be established, regulations and procedures for obtaining, or for issuing a marketing authorisation, as well as medical means shall be regulated. Why is the purpose of this law important? Because he will, in fact, harmonize relations in the field of medicines and medical means, above all, in a legislative sense. This means that domestic laws and our legislation will eventually be able to adapt to the laws of the European Union and the principles and standards that the European Union requires of us. This is very important, above all, to make an agency in institutional terms which will be the regulatory body for the field of medicines and medical resources, which will provide quality, safety and effective medicines at national level. This will also satisfy the world trade organisation, which requires us to have an open market for the flow of goods, services and capital. So, the important reason for the adoption of this law is that, in the course of production, transport, distribution and quality control of all medicines and medical means, security for our patients, i.e. citizens, safe, quality and effective medicines, which will really achieve a higher level of health care for our citizens. I would say that citizens have received higher standards in assessing the quality of these drugs and all information will be available, which will be standardised in a simple way and understandable to our patients. And society, in general, will receive through the agency a truly one-right regulatory body that will professionally and on top of scientific principles solve and determine which drugs will be authorised to be used in our Serbia. Society, as a whole, has a great interest in protecting its citizens and patients to establish this agency that will, among other things, co-operate with other agencies in the environment, which have similar national agencies as we do. Finally, our pharmaceutical industry will finally get one legal framework, so that in the next five years it will be able to determine and increase its standards in the production of its medicines and thus be able to be competitive, not only on our domestic market, but also on the European Union market. What does that mean for big drugs? That means they'll be able to export their drugs beyond the borders of this country, not just on our market. For the first time, this law identifies, for safety and quality, medicines used in veterinary medicine. This law will protect animal health at a higher level, which means that the protection of the health of our citizens will also be at a higher level. Finally, I would say that market competition, which will allow for better competition in the market by creating an agency and better production, as regards the production of the pharmaceutical industry. You know, if it comes to competition, that there is a reduction in the price of medicines and therefore, mandatory health insurance organisations will have medicines that they can get at cheaper prices, and thus the organisation will be able to use these funds more rationally. I'd like to list a few more important items concerning the newspaper in this law. I would like to mention, first of all, the introduction of protective measures, that is, the measure of banning action for those who do not respect this law. I would mention that the agency will work as a public service in which all employees, who decide on important matters for the transport of medicines and the quality and efficiency of medicines, will have to sign a statement that there is no conflict between public and private interests, which will certainly allow for no crime or corruption in those agencies at all. In addition, advertising will be so designed that we will no longer have to listen to the advertising of various medicines that we cannot safely argue whether they are really helping in these diseases that are being advertised. The biggest item in this law is the formation of this agency whose goal is, in fact, to us - patients, all of us, all of us can one day be patients, provide effective, quality and safe medicines. I would say, in the end, that our ministry, after a series of attempts, led by Mr Tomic Milosavljevic, managed to bring domestic legislation into line with European Union legislation and that this is a great success of this ministry, that after a number of years we are really going to reform the health system. That's why the G17 Plus will support this bill and I hope the other MPs jump on that train going to Europe, because we didn't wait on the platform when he was standing at the station, but we jump in now that he's on his way. I hope that the other laws will also be adopted in this assembly by the end of 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5757	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. He's not here. ) The word has Milica Vojić-Markovic, and let Vladislav Kronic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5758	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the drug law and medical means, whose proposal is ahead of us, is one of those laws that I think is very important to be passed quickly and adopted. That is, if we aim at the health of the nation and apply high standards of living in the European Union in our country as well. What is also important is that the aim of this law is to establish rules and legislation that apply in the European Union, and in our country, but at the same time it is important to know that institutions that exist in the European Union must be formed. We need to know that these institutions have to work the same way. So, as one of those institutions that is formed, is the formation of a drug agency and medical means. This agency, as a public service, will have several sectors that will cover all the parts that, in this very wide area, are specific. I mean, first of all, pharmaceuticals, human medicine, veterinary, the information sector, etc. When some laws are passed, then it is very important to know why they are passed, what certain segments of society get by passing just like this law. The last law that was passed in this area was the 1993 law, which brought much of what was negative to our citizens and patients, in the end, and which put their health at risk. What will the current law bring to the citizens, or patients? It will bring them that they will be able to use quality, safe and effective medicines, as all other people in the European community do. On the other hand, what will bring our pharmaceutical industry, one of those who works well in this country? So it will bring her the opportunity to develop, to appear in other markets. Here we are talking about regional markets and markets that it can compete with. Thus, even wholesalers can be very interested in passing one of these laws. What else is new that this law predicts? The new thing is that the organisation of compulsory healthcare will have the possibility of establishing authorisations for the marketing of medicines and medical products, which will strengthen control and give us the opportunity to use safe medicines, the day-to-day health institutions will be supplied with good and useful medicines. But now I get to that one area, which I find very interesting, and which I don't think is well enough covered by this law. It seems to me that, with this law, there must be another law from the Ministry that is responsible for it, which is veterinary. The area of health is so far, and in many other governments, very precisely processed and it is natural that all governments so far were, more or less, already dependent on their motives, interested in this law, because the health of the nation is one of the main priorities that each government must have in mind when it starts to deal with the business of governments. However, the veterinary area has so far not been significantly regulated or has not been regulated by adequate laws. That's why it's important that we don't just view the veterinary area as an animal treatment, which, of course, is the wind in the end line and it is. But, on the other hand, medicine heals exactly what's missing in the wind. I can freely say that since the 1990s, not only in our country, but I can generally look at another market, and Europe and the world, there have been so many procedures and experiments in the wind, and so many failures, that there have been many more human casualties, in the extreme line, but in all wars so far. When I say that, I'm talking about the milk that was infected, remember, it was brucellosis, in many of our factories and agricultural goods that were sold on the market. I also mean that we're using meso-infected animals, that our children are resistant to penicillins, but I also have in mind that this law for the first time tries to lower the traffic of veterinary medicinal products in one controlled way, and that they can only be sold in veterinary pharmacies. Why does it matter? It's natural to sell in pharmacies, but we live in Serbia. In Serbia at every fair, every fair, in every veterinary pharmacy, you have the opportunity to buy a drug at your discretion, whether it's some hormone given to animals, whether it's some "Primix" used to feed animals, as an add-on, whether it's antibiotics sold by whether the neighbor used them, so it was good for him, or in principle -- my experience shows that it was good, whether it was vaccines that were also a latent danger. So these are all things that are extremely important to bring under one very broad control of society. That is why it seems to me that this law has the possibility to introduce a single order in this area, however. Of course, there must be a law on animal protection, which does not prescribe this ministry, nor do I expect it to be prescribed, but I expect it to be an addition to this law. That is why it is very important for me to know, that I, first of all as a parent, as someone who cares about the future of children, that I will use only healthy products, because this animal health law must prohibit the trafficking of the meat of sick animals, which is generally a major problem in this country. Because this law will bring good to the citizens of this country, the patients, which will bring good to the pharmaceutical industry, which will earn basic health insurance in terms of additional control, it seems to me that this law is the beginning of a new path, a really caring relationship with people, and it seems to me that we should vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5759	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5760	I'm sorry, I'd just like the president to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5761	Thank you. (Glasses - but, he's not present. () Yes, an authorised representative on this point is authorised. Mr. Momchilov is an authorised representative and is currently the only one present from the SRS. So it's okay. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. We're moving on. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5762	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I may not have chosen the right member of the Rules of Procedure to advertise. I hope you don't mind me saying so, but I'm simply provoked by the exposure of my previous DSS colleague, who, in my opinion, spoke very negatively about the veterinary profession and the veterinary service. I'm referring to Article 97. (businessman) where the MP misread the exhibit. Given that I introduced myself yesterday as a veterinarian and representative of the veterinary profession, I want to tell my colleague first, and to all of you, that the veterinary profession is very precisely defined by certain laws that are in force. Among other things, these are two federal animal health laws... Sir, I've called the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to have so much decency to listen to me. It has been said that this law will regulate certain things which are essentially regulated by other laws, and, in fact, veterinary services and veterinary professions in accordance with applicable laws and how it controls the area of life supplies, and it is certain that our citizens can be safe; both veterinarians and competent specialist veterinary institutions have qualified experts and qualified and competent supervision is carried out. Our citizens certainly do not feed on foods that are unfit for human consumption, and if there are such cases it is at least as guilty, as some other services; if we have insecure foods, the veterinary service and the profession is regulated by adequate laws that experts in the veterinary field i.e. medicine and apply in their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5763	Thank you, Mr. Machine. I warn the MPs that I will no longer tolerate abuse of the call to the Rules of Procedure, because in this particular case there is no word of any violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's clear to everyone. Here, replica, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5764	Thank you. My esteemed colleague certainly didn't understand. I really belong to those people who have great respect for the veterinary service and I believe that they, in times like these, are fighting as much as they can really protect society and people from the negative consequences. But what matters to me is that the law is behind it. It's very important for me to know that he can't do any different than he can under the law. Why do I say that? Remember when we were drinking the milk of sick cows. The whole professional public struggled to prove whether it was dangerous to drink milk, whether or not the milk of the sick cows was dangerous! Under what conditions is dangerous and under which conditions it is not! That's why I'm saying it, and I think it's very important to know. Of course, with all due respect to the profession, I mean that I live in a town where veterinary technicians diagnose and veterinary technicians treat, prescribe drugs and cures. That's the point. I don't believe it's any different in your neighborhoods. On the other hand, someone who owns animals goes quietly to the pharmacy and buys a vaccine. That's what I'm talking about. I think it's very important, and you all know that as an expert, you know in swine disease that types of vaccines can become latent causes of disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5765	The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5766	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased to speak in front of this high house about the drug law and medical means. If we respect the fact that doctors care about the health of all mankind, we must respect the fact that veterinarians care about the health of the whole world. Since I come from Somboro where there are great opportunities for the development of intensive livestock production, I am touched as a man and agronom by the purpose of this law even three ways. Like any man, a potential patient, I'm interested in our pharmacies being well supplied with drugs, these drugs being of quality and being available to us all. Secondly, as an agronomic interest in me, there is good control of drug traffic, because it is in the interest of our country that our agricultural products do not come into a situation to be returned from foreign markets, because of the rest of the drugs, on and in them. It is known that both streptomycin and penicillin are used in the production of paprika, that there are residues of antibiotics and hormones in the meat. Thirdly, like any citizen of our country, I'm interested in having our market well supplied with healthy proper food, which means that there are no remains of antibiotics and hormones in the food of animal origin. So I think this law has more real solutions. The establishment of a medicine and medical agency for Serbia (second chapter of the law, members from 2nd to 19th) allows our market to be well supplied with quality medicines. It is good that there is an independent institution in the country, the only task that will care about what and how the drugs come into our market. This law offers a solution in line with a similar regulation in Europe, which is known for its extremely rigorous controls on the production, transport and application of veterinary medicinal products. It is precisely for the protection of human health, as end-users of food of animal origin, and not only that, a special form of human protection against the harmful impact of medicines and the protection of people working in production, which is particularly emphasized by the introduction of good manufacturing practice, I believe that Article 29 of this law regulates the conditions which must be met by legal persons who participate in the production, transport and control of medicines. It is of particular importance that this law protects our market and our citizens from importing and transporting phantom veterinary medicines. In fact, it is very important that when veterinary medicinal products are imported, although this applies to other medicines, they are confirmed that these medicines are already in use in the country from which we import them, so that we do not find phantom veterinary medicinal products on our market. It is important here, in my opinion, Article 68(1), point 6) which regulates the control of medicines that come to us from countries that do not respect the Good Producer Practice Guidelines or countries that are not signatories to conventions and agreements, which regulate mutual recognition of inspections and such. This also adequately protects our domestic veterinary medicinal products producers, who offer quality medicines to our market, and so far have been under the pressure of poorly controlled imports of cheap drugs of suspicious quality. Legal model (Articles 62 to 68)) they impose the necessary conditions that must be met in order to ensure that good quality of our manufacturers' medicines survives. In particular, it appears to be an essential part of the law relating to pharmacovigilance, where Article 93 regulates the establishment of a system of data collection of unwanted drug reactions for use in veterinary medicine. Following this law, it will also be possible to pass legislation, which will introduce adequate control of the remains of medicines in foods obtained from treated animals, which will significantly affect the general health of our citizens, but will prevent the animal products of our producers from returning from foreign markets as inadequate for them. G17 Plus, as a responsible political party, which takes care of the interests of Serbian citizens, will support the adoption of this law. I call on ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to support this law in the interests of citizens and Serbia's health.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5767	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) Or someone else who did not exercise his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5768	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which states that in article 1, the "Agency" is replaced by the word "Government". We are now coming to this principle issue and to clarify things immediately, given that in the debate we have heard in principle many claims that this is something that "must"; that the agency "must" and that it is an EU directive, that this is something that leads to harmonisation with the EU, and in some translated sense who is for the agency, it is for Europe, and who is not for the agency, it is probably for "Oceanija". Does the agency really need to be introduced and is this really an EU directive? That's absolutely not true. In no way does the EU impose any regulation on its Member States or other countries to introduce such an organisation in such a way as to introduce regulation in any area or in the field of medicines. So, all these claims that the "must" agency isn't right, and once and for all, let's get this straight. They don't interfere with our system how we're going to organize bribes, the only thing they're looking for, is that these issues are settled according to their standards. That's not at all controversial. It's a dispute whether or not, and how long have these great agencies! We've been here for weeks, nonstop, just what we're doing here -- laws on agencies. No one puts on paper how much this country costs and how much that parallel with the state really costs this country. They only add 30 million, 50 million, 90 million to this agency, and basically all these agencies serve nothing but the justice of one unquality, sloppy, disorganized ministry work. The only reason they're doing it and running away from it is because the administration or part of the ministry is to take over all of what this law wants, is to form a parallel body that will now suddenly be professionally organized, quality, that there will be no corruption in that body, that it will be all right. Why wasn't it so far? Who has prevented this ministry from handling the area so far, the area of drugs? Therefore, one question is raised here, and the statement is extremely unpredictive -- that this law will now give Serbian citizens quality, safety and better medicines. Please, does this mean that so far the citizens of Serbia have not had quality, safe and good medications?- I'm sorry. If he's going to have it now, that means we haven't had it yet. If we haven't had it by now, then this ministry's responsibility is terrible. Then, for these four years if Serbian citizens have used bad medication, someone should be held accountable. So it doesn't stand, and it's not true. It is not true that now suddenly an institution, such as the agency, will have expert personnel, and so far there have been no experts in this country. The agency will take over personnel from the Department of Pharmacy, take over personnel from the Ministry. They're all the same people, and it's impossible that they're inextricable so far, and suddenly they're becoming professional. It's not possible they've been dishonest so far, and suddenly they're becoming honest. It's not possible that so far there's been corruption, and now there won't be any more. Who has prevented this country or this ministry from fighting corruption or who has prevented it from affecting better quality work and better regulation in this area of medicines. There are some things mixed up, some things are highly demagogue and it is not disputed that someone thinks that we don't want to be made that regulation. On the contrary, but it is a controversial way of doing it and it is a controversial way of presenting it -- as some terrible reforms, that it is enough to now vote for the agency and everything will go better. So is the explanation why the sowing of the amendment refuses and why the possibility of such a body being part of the ministry is rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5769	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5770	Here it is said in the explanation -- "an independent regulatory body as a professional and professional, self-financed service independent of the state administration". Is everything exactly like that? Is the agency that independent? It's financial, if that's how it's supposed to be. Then why is the state in control? Thus, it is not all as it says, and we would have to think about these things well. We should very positively consider that such an independent institution, becomes dependent on foreign investment, becomes dependent on those who wrote this law, where there is obviously a conflict of interest, when it is obvious that these people who wrote this law for this country and did not write it for their country, who worked in large pharmaceutical houses as associates, have some of their own interest "greater" than it is the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5771	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5772	I'm reporting for an explanation sent to us when this amendment has been rejected. I've already said we haven't had a chance to have an authorised representative, Mr. Minister, defend these amendments, but practically done by legal services. Let's make a deal about this agency once, let's clear up some concepts and about what Mr. Blazic said, let's not spread the ambiguity and not make fog. In the right relationship that exists when one person or party engages another, an agent, works for him, sells for him, manages his affairs, the Agency Act regulates legal relations in which an agent operates with a third party on behalf of the principle. Namely, why did I bring this up? This is from the British Encyclopedia, which talks about the agency: the root of the words is "ago, agre", the medieval Latin language, and you know what that means. This is the definition, and we are told in response to why they reject the amendment - the agency is not accepted since it is contrary to the proposed concept of law, i.e. the need to establish an independent regulatory body as a professional, professional, self-financed service independent of the state administration. No agency can be independent. The Agency shall be a mediator between the principles and the third party. It's nonsense and something like that to say is that you don't know the elemental settings, lexics and logic! Furthermore, in the same explanation, which is quite extensive, we are told that the establishment of the agency is in line with the modern fluids of European legislation on the field of medicines and medical resources, and is said to be "having in mind the experience of a large number of countries in transition". I put out a clear number of 100 and a few countries in the world yesterday, only 14 states know the agency. Fourteen countries in Europe. Countries in transition, in our environment, that have adopted this concept, that they have an agency, are in minority: there are no Austria, there is no Germany, there is no Italy, there is no Greece, there is no Hungary - they don't know the agency. Therefore, such untruths I don't think is right. Finally, harmonisation with the European Union and with the International Conference on Harmonisation will be possible when we apply nine European Union files that regulate this area, which are: hundreds of pages placed in laws, directives, regulations, decisions and guidelines. It's the only way we're gonna harmonize, and not if we accept the agency as an organisational form.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5773	The word has a health minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5774	At the beginning of the debate on amendments, ladies and gentlemen, it is in fact necessary to clarify the fundamental difference between the concept of the proposed law and several amendments which will be further mentioned on whether it is "government" or "agency". The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices should be an independent regulatory body which is primarily professional and professional, not just a "usual" body of the state administration. The business of quality control, registration, control of clinical studies, control of wholesale drugs, retail sales, so many professional dimensions of this job has that any government body can have the best intentions and ambitions, and with the best organization this job to do - in times of technological progress and the development of new therapies based on genetics, on the biological modes of making new drugs, it is impossible for a state body to do so effectively. It's the purpose and concept of the law, based first and foremost on it. There's been a lot of calls here for help. If, at the beginning of the debate on amendments, we call the profession, I mean in pharmaceutical terms, in pharmacological terms, of course, both medical and dental and veterinary, the profession will certainly say itself that it is she who insisted that this body be independent, professional, professional, self-financed. What about the state's interest? The interest of the Republic is very precisely defined by the protection of the interests of the Republic in the field of medicines and medical means, i.e. protection of the safety and safety of medicines, through supervision of the work of the Agency. Not to quote now a number of members who primarily refer to the appointment of directors, following a competition held by the health minister, through consent to the internal organisation act, through the election of the board of directors and supervisors, finally through the Ministry as a second-degree decision-making body, the Ministry of Health on the one hand and the Ministry of Veterans on the other. In view of the experience of a large number of countries in transition, the bill proposed the most rational organisational concept that provides for independence in professional and professional work, and therefore we propose the establishment of such an agency that will, among other things, have 100 to 120 employees who will work on highly specialized tasks from the Agency's competence; one part of course from the Department of Pharmacy, the other part of the people who are now in the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health, employed in these jobs and, finally, the work of the Agency will cost less the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5775	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Replica, on what basis? Wrong interpretation of your exposure. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5776	I just said about this pay phone, while I was putting out what I had, that it's not true that many countries, a large number of countries in transition, numerically, please, list how many countries there are in transition and who they are. Don't let us spread lies here. Exactly, please, I've said 14 countries in the world, since 198, knows the agency. If that's a lot, if that's most of it, then I take my word back. Please don't tell us now that it's something that's been accepted everywhere. Yesterday I was telling you that none of the big agencies: English, French, American, are self-financing, they're all budget-bound. Find me one of the only serious countries that regulates this way - to be self-financed. We bring it to our harm! Please give specific information, don't read what they wrote to you! And you're telling the truth!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5777	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? You want to talk about the amendment? All right, MP Vladan Vukicevic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5778	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when budget funds are allocated, then we complain about why the funds are allocated from the budget. Now that we're building an agency and we want the agency to be self-financed, then now we're moaning about why the agency is self-financed. Please, the agency should be independent and composed of professional, competent people who will professionally and competently work in the interest of human health and, of course, fund themselves. This should be good for this Serbia, to disburse the budget, to relieve taxpayers and simply, in the end, to come once to the right solutions, not to fund everything from the back of taxpayers, but to make professionals earn their own incomes and finance. There is no question here how many agencies there are in the world, but the question is, what are these agencies like, and how do these agencies work? If there are any negative experiences for agencies, let them present those experiences, and the number itself whether there are so many or so, it's less important. We have defined ourselves to form an agency and we believe that the agency will hire high-quality people who will know how to do the job, and of course, there is the possibility of " tomorrow's story" if that's not the case, but what's wrong, it's not right to judge everyone in advance. That's why I don't think there can be an obstacle to this law establishing an agency, and I think, as far as that goes, it's okay. What's important is whether the agency is putting bills on someone and who they're laying on, who they're setting people up for, and who they're responding to. And what's most positive about all this is that the Republic of Serbia's budget will be disbursed and that the agency itself will earn money for itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5779	By amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic. On what basis are you looking for a replica? Wrong interpretation of the amendment, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5780	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a thesis here that doesn't stand at all. It is said that the budget will be disbursed because the agency will be a self-financing body. I'm asking you nicely, that money the agency's gonna make by giving permission, that money went into the budget, too. What are we talking about here? How do you normally charge permission for some medications? Therefore, there is no disbursement, even if there is a lack of money in the budget, and that the agency will be able to have all the funds it earns and went into the budget as it pleases. It's not true that it's a state's interest. You need to think about it a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5781	Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word on the amendment, then Veroljub Arsic on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5782	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the presentation of experts in the field of SRS medicine, began by the chairman of the Committee, Dr Paja Momchilova, Professor Poscurica, Dr Blazic, Dr Milkovic and others, I find it really difficult to say something new about the expertise in the performance of the work, and these jobs are entrusted to the agency, and that the distinguished fellow MPs, doctors, university professors did not say. After the presentation of the minister, and using my business rights, I must look back on what is a member of the law, and the fact that some MPs, from several parliamentary groups, had the opportunity to get acquainted with this concept of the law only a few months ago. We SRS MPs who were members of this parliament in the past, we had this bill signed, also by the minister, then Milosavljevic in almost unchanged form. Dr Branislav Blazic as one of the known experts from his field of surgery, which he has been working on for many years, and as an MP since the beginning of the multi-party in Serbia has come to this problem in detail two years ago. With the participation of all MPs, the doctor from the SRS, and acting through the Health Committee, these people, professionally and competently, wanted the minister to believe that the concept is bad and that it all starts with the agency. Not because of the preconception, not just because of the statistical display, but because of the fact that only 14 countries in the world have applied the concept, and not because we want to be malignancies in advance and we don't want to be any agency. First of all, it is not true, Mr. Minister, the argument given to all of us by the MPs that it is in accordance with the Law of the State Administration. That's not true! This harmonisation and acceptance of such legal solutions began with the Ministry of Privatisation, the formation of the Privatisation Agency, and these days we are witnessing the kind of malfeasance that he was already talking about, and is talking about, the now-scheduled director of that Agency. Do you want the agency formed under this law to play the same role as the Privatisation Agency - that you must now according to the concept that you have foreseen, both as a party and as someone who participates in the ruling group, appoint the director of the agency to participate in various malfeasances, because its broad powers are, as broadly as possible, counted in Article 6. According to what the agency can do, "the whole public is shaken," and especially people who work in health care who are already preparing for a new strike, and then we post-festum discuss who put the money in their pocket. No, we don't want that! To prevent that and to establish the principles and codes that will be dealt with in the field of health care when it comes to medicines and medical means, "we, the MPs of the SRS, want to eliminate the director's lobby, commissions, negotiate business with known suppliers, enormous commissions", and it is a matter of conscience and awareness of those people what will happen to them - because they answer to God and to the people for what they do and for which they are rich in someone's torment! To do so, we are in favour, and it is our right, that there is no agency - not because we tell you that there is no such thing in many countries, but rather we express our doubts, we know what kind of miles you are, we know what miles those who have done so far; they have "taken huge commissions", and all doctors from both the SRS and those who are not members of parliamentary parties are aware of it. So, people who want to do their job fair and treat patients, they don't have what, they don't have adequate salaries, homes of health are destroyed, clinical-patient centres, and what is the one in Kragujevac, and what is the Clinical Centre in Belgrade? Then the question is rightly asked (in the daily paper) was this law needed, or do you have to worry about the fact that someone is disturbed by the current director of the clinical center - perhaps because he doesn't want this law too, maybe because he won't take commissions and co-operate in such a mob way with pharmaceuticals? That's why we ask that the word "age" be deleted, that it does not exist and that such a law is actually made that will be on the good side, first of all, of citizens who need medical attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5783	On the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5784	Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that I was amazed at Mr. Minister's presentation when he talked about agencies -- they will finance themselves, they will disburse the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And with the establishment of such agencies, this government continues the continuity of the old government, though, they did it by regulations; the current government passed one regulation, abolished nine agencies a few months ago; so far you've introduced seven under some law, so my claim that by September you'll have more agencies going in that direction, that's true. I can say that neither Mr. Minister, unlike his colleagues, the other ministers in the government of Serbia, who founded the agencies, was well prescribed by the law, because here he writes, among other things, that "the president and members of the board of directors and supervisory board, as well as the director, or vice director, appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Minister, whose proposal? On your proposal, on the proposal of a chamber, on the proposal of a civil society? On whose proposal, Mr. Minister? It just proves that you don't care about how you write the law. As far as the budget is concerned, Mr. Minister, you claim that there will be less donations to your ministry on the basis of the fact that the agency will fund itself, there is an authority of the state administration, whose work you would be responsible for, and you want the agency to avoid responsibility - because you say you are not purposelessly spending money from the budget. That's not true!- I'm sorry. As my colleague Dr Blazic said, so far licenses have been paid - whether paid at the expense of the ministry, at the expense of the Treasury, at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or any agency. You've forgotten the other thing, that at any cost it's a drug and the price of a license. No one can deny that. You were supposed to consult with your party colleague, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, because he introduced an additional 8% tax on drugs that are on positive lists, and those on some negative list -- value added tax is paid by 18%. Poor is the government of the Republic of Serbia and the expert group, which are reportedly reformers, who will be in another's misery and troubles to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for the agency, you can see. — Chapter 2. the Director of the Agency, members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the Government. Mr. Minister only wants to avoid responsibility for possible abuses, even for the abuses he has ordered as minister, and if something like that is revealed, he cannot bear any consequences, because the director has been appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he will then say – it was a deal between party and coalition partners; he will replace the director and set up a new one who will continue to work for the same commission, perhaps under the pressure of the minister, one job. That's the problem with the agencies. It would be best if you accepted the SRS concept, best for the people. For you, I don't think it would be good, because then, and for any bad decision that this committee makes or the authority of the state administration, you would have to answer yourself. This is how it will all come down to the back when it comes to the director of the Privatisation Agency; it has stopped privatisation, let's switch directors and no one is guilty except the director. That's how it's gonna be with the directors of this agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5785	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment one notice - the sixth session of the Committee on International Relations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held today, July 20th, starting at 14.00h in the hall one on the ground floor. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title of Head 2.( above Article 2.) and Article 2. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the Minister of Health who actively joined the work of the National Assembly, given that he did not want to participate in the work of the Health Committee - to consider our amendments and to give us adequate answers, but better ever than never. After five or six hours of sleep in the Assembly, he still woke up and began to participate actively. On behalf of the SRS, I thank him. The amendment of the SRS to Chapter 2 above Article 2 of the "Agency" is replaced by the word "Government", and Article 2 is amended as follows: "To ensure quality, efficient, safe, at prices acceptable to citizens, producers and distributors and available medicines and medical resources, the Office for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as "Government") is established." The amendment expresses the position of the SRS to establish, instead of the agency, an authority to be an authority, within the Ministry of Health, responsible for administrative, administrative affairs in the field of medicines and medical resources and to make sure that it is in accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. The fact is that in a far-reaching and legally unfounded way, again on the EU's insistence and by the producers that this is useful, rather than drugs, the central place is now the central institution in the field of medicines, which is the agency. Many things are not defined in a good way, but are left to the minister to design and sublegal regulations at the level of the ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, set more precisely many things. The Agency shall be entrusted with the issue of marketing authorisations for medicinal products and authorisations for clinical trials, as well as with the control of the quality of medicinal products. I would suggest this case, when it has already inconsistently formed an agency according to EU standards, as explained in the explanation, the fact is that it did not take care, that the agency should "insert" itself with all its administrative procedures, because the standard, when it comes to the two-stage management process, is not being satisfied here, especially when it comes to domestic institutions. Regardless of how reform laws can be seen to avoid some of the hard assumptions of the legislative system, institutions such as agencies, which the legislative system has also not known so far, can be formed. Since it is argued that the amendments are accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments to Article 1. The bill (Dr Blažić had the amendment). Obviously, the minister and his associates, since the lawyer represented the Minister at the Health Committee, did not read the SRS amendment correctly, because it is not the point of general intensities, as regards the agency, since in the first 20 members (the proposal) it is the agency, but when it comes to the amendment to Article 2 it is precisely - that it is added "at prices acceptable to citizens, producers and distributors". This is what the World Health Organization recommends, to respect both patients and producers, as well as distributors who connect between patients and producers. Since we are all seeking the EU, the SRS proposal is identical to the US proposal, that is, the way it was done in Slovenia. I can't help but react to Mr. Secretary's argument that about 100 to 120 people will be employed by the agency. For example, Macedonia, which also formed the agency, has only four employees. Given that the Eurohealth Group proposal says, on the fifth side, it is clearly defined, that a total of 155 persons are to be employed by the agency, so that the minister says "only 100 to 120 persons will be employed", or not on the advice of the European Union, which is managed by the European Agency for Reconstruction, or the minister, after the presentation of the SRS representatives, probably wants to do a restrictive on the part of the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5787	I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5788	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again, good afternoon. We're continuing our work. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS (single details) According to official record, 122 MPs attend the session. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert your parliamentary cards into the MPs' units so that we can continue our work. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs are present in the O.R. We stopped by the name of Glava 2 above the second amendment, which was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and Goran Cvetanovic spoke. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5789	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Col. Milivoje Vukovic of the SRS submitted this amendment with the intention that we should fix this area exactly the way it was arranged in the United States, Britain, Australia and other major countries. In fact, we intervened in this way -- that the administration be established within the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by this law, the regulations laid down for the implementation of this law and the statute. And, of course, we've demanded that sections 2 and 3 be deleted, which prevents this institution from being in public service, from being self-financed, because we don't think that's allowed at all. We've been trying on several occasions to explain why self-financing is not allowed. We'll talk about it later, on other examples. And why this should not go - deregulation to public institutions and businesses, perhaps they can explain and serve the words of the current president of the World Health Organization, who says nicely: "The medicines are public good. It's not just them that improves our lives. They are because of their social importance and also because those who prescribe it and those who use it cannot determine quality, security and efficiency. The regulation must be brought to the administration." All the developed countries of the world don't allow, precisely because of this second act, if it's public well-being, we might as well let it regulate its traffic something that's a public service. However, because of these other undesirable effects, which and how they can endanger the health of the people, it is unusually important to resolve this in the administration. If you wanted to do something that is a higher instance and the true peak of the pyramid in institutions that regulate and deal with this problem, you had to create a "national institute for medicines and medicinal products". That could have been done, but the "real national institute", and so do the Hungarians, our neighbours, that would have cost far more than this 90 million sum, which you've defined from the budget, and we don't see from which. Is there going to be a budget rebalance -- we don't even know how you got to that 90 million amount? So we're wondering if when you're building a whole new institution, it's going to be enough and what happens if that sum isn't enough. Based on what budget did you come up with this number, we're very interested in that? Why are we interested? We have information that the same amount was valid a year ago, and inflation, for God's sake, is going its course, and we fear that this very important institution will not stumble at the very moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5790	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. That the line wants a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger Milomir Dunjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5791	I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. I suggest that instead of the word "age" the word "government." Given that my previous colleagues have discussed this, I would like to quote Article 4 which reads: "The funds for the establishment and start of the Agency are provided from: 1) the budget of the Republic of Serbia; 2) and donations, in accordance with the law." I, Mr. Minister, am interested - if 90 million dinars are provided for the agency's work, if 155 members, or workers, of experts, will be employed, where will the money be if spent from this budget? Is there going to be some rebalancing because, according to some experts, this will exceed a much larger sum, even, of 50m euros?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5792	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for this amendment, given that yesterday, in the principle debate, I asked a specific question to the Minister about budget funds for the establishment of the agency. Given the adopted budget and the item provided for by the Ministry of Health, I was unable to identify from which section and which functions, which economic classifications will engage these funds for the establishment of the agency proposed by this law. He would again ask the Minister or someone from the Ministry of Health to inform us from which division and which economic classifications these funds will be allocated for these purposes. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the government's policies, which is the establishment of the agency, in line with the requirements of the SRS parliamentary group. This is the third agency we've established in the past two months and a total budget commitment for these three agencies around 230 million dinars. If we look at the budget of the Ministry of Health, there are only 130, 140 million dinar figures, and here are some three agencies that will be established or have already been set up to require more than 230 million dinar budgets. In particular, I do not understand this 90 million figure as it was designed, and this is what Mr. Momchilov has already asked, given that the Agency is also being entered by the Republic Pharmacy Office as an institution, has its own budget, its own income, which will enter as the founding part of this agency. I ask the question: is this sum well projected, is it too large, or is it even too small, compared to what it wants to accomplish? Counting that this agency will continue to work, first of all, to control the quality of the drugs, that it takes certain equipment - analytical and chemical, I suppose, first of all, that the Department of Pharmacy has, because it's been doing this job for years, then I'm really wondering what these funds are going to be spent in this year. I would beg, if possible, to get explanations regarding these demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5794	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a proposal for the Serbian government. It is not in the form of amendments, though, but I think the Serbian government will accept it. "I suggest you form an agency for the formation of agencies." You criticized the previous DOS, the previous government, that many agencies had formed and that many people had hired in agencies from their political parties and the first move, one of the first moves of this government was to delete those nine or ten agencies, I don't know exactly, remind me, gentlemen of the SRS MPs, to reduce the number of agencies. We've been passing laws for ten days, and every law says the formation of agencies. Mr. Minister, as it begins, you will hire 120 people at this agency - so you will no longer have anyone in G17 plus who does not work either at the agency run by Dinkic or at your agency. The SRS suggests that the name "age" be deleted and the term "government" be introduced, for the simple reason that the administration will be under jurisdiction, under hand, under the auspices of the ministry and will be able to exercise certain controls. On the other hand, SRS MPs, in addition to all those shortcomings, have been speaking, the agency is opening up terrible opportunities for criminalisation and this segment of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5796	Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5797	In the first twenty members who treat the formation of the agency, the SRS proposed, normally, erasing the very concept of "agency", but we put ourselves in charge of giving alternative solutions through the amendments. We couldn't be satisfied just by eradicating what we disagree with, but we offered the government a different concept, and in case, by some miracle, if the government had accepted our amendments, it would have been a complete law. We had an obligation to offer a different law that could be absolutely legal. Since we have no illusions that this will be adopted, the government has rejected these amendments, we understand this our interpretation of the amendments so that we offer our concept to the general professional public. The agency is being deleted and since it's supposed to be financed from its own income, normally, we've already spoken against such an idea in principle. I would use the presence of the Minister of Health to get to know him, to draw attention to him that even though the current law stipulates that drugs and medical means can only be placed on the market if they are registered under the law, there is a practice of using unregistered diagnostics, and that is precisely in the area I talked a little bit more about in the principle debate, in the area of transfusiological service. These are the most sensitive diagnostic agents, and we have a phenomenon that unregistered diagnostic preparations are used. Also, even registered preparations, are treated contrary to the provisions of the Law, i.e. for funds that are prescribed to be kept at a specified temperature, ranging from 4 to 8 degrees Celsius. These funds are distributed to transfusion services, to ordinary postal shipments. There may also be an answer to the question of why serious leaks and spreads of some infections through blood transfusions occur.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5798	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Health and Family Committee proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5799	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we meet in the Committee, it is often said that we doctors are one family and that we should have the same attitudes on all important issues of health care. I'm using such a position right now, and I'm coming out, reporting for an amendment sent by a colleague from the SPS parliamentary group. Unfortunately, she's not here and she can't explain the justification of this amendment, so I'll be free to comment on this proposal with a few words. In fact, the colleague believes that this law should regulate both drug trafficking and psychotropic substances. In his view, the legislator, the legislator, rejected this amendment, believing that it was not accepted, since it was contrary to the Law on State Administration, which prescribed that inspection operations on certain areas could not be entrusted to other organisations or to the regulatory body for the area of medicines - agency, i.e. that these are the original transactions of the state authority. This argument that meets, here, for who knows which time, is the height of hypocrisy and inconsistency. As it is possible to issue authorisations for clinical trials of medicinal products and medical means and to control the conduct of clinical trials, something that is the most sensitive part in the entire medicinal product area and to allow it to be self-financed. So it's a clean inspection job. Once he can, and now that it's psychotropic drugs and drugs, he can't do it. That's what our legislation allows. On the other hand, you gave the agency jurisdiction to put the drug traffic. In one of your members, you have defined when the medicine is withdrawn and in what way. In order for him to withdraw, only inspection actions can be obtained by those items that you have listed. Therefore, the agency can carry out inspection tasks there, it -- self-financed, it -- which depends on a foreign import lobby, which will pay permission for clinical trials and for placing on the market. We warn you, don't give such contradictory explanations to give or discuss what this is about!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5800	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5801	The meaning of the amendments that we have submitted is a quite serious amendment that, in fact, I don't know if it is a representative of the reform government, they signed on one paper as reform, whether the prime minister of the government knows that under such projects, strategic developments in health, are called as a reform government, whether he admits, even though he said in an exposé that he will also hold reform flows. So, a representative of the reform government, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask: did they understand, when the Government commented on the amendment proposal, that we offered one solution that should satisfy the replacement for what the agency offers, but in a completely different context. It will not have a mix and prerogative of administrative, professional activities from professional areas, but rather an administrative job that will have inspection supervision and will have an administrative function. That's why the amendment, which we've submitted, is not about the agency, but about the "government" we're introducing. So a concise replacement for the agency can tolerate what's being proposed by the amendment and given. He can accept, you have, at the beginning, rejected point 2) of our amendment, in which you are required to enter into the law "issue a preclinical drug test permit". The government's explanation is that there's no such thing, it's happening in the drug production process. It's just incomprehensible and I really don't have any IDs, I'd like to know who has such personal experience going around our factories, and I did visit them all in a row and I saw a lab for preclinical tests, cell culture banks, biological animals, biological opiates. We don't have it, our factories don't have it. The factories deal with production technology. If the drug manufacturer wants one of those preclinical tests, and I don't know who else can say they're not needed, then I'm talking to the competent institutions. From these institutions, we have received a letter asking for an item in the law on the need for preclinical examinations. Who are the signatories of the institutions? No less, no more than professors, directors or associates of the Institute of Medical Research, Institute of Molecular Genetics and Genetic Engineering, Institute of Biological Research, INEP, Institute of Oncology and Radiology, the Institute of Nuclear Sciences, Vinch. Does it need more authority to back that up? I don't know what those people who wrote this bill were, what that expert group meant when they bypassed this opinion. We all got that on board. So, obviously, if we imagine "government" as we imagine it with the powers it has, there's absolutely room to issue a preclinical examination permit. We're not going to manufacture drugs without them being checked on biological material and certified. There's a second suspicion opening. If we're going to import drugs where someone's already done a biological examination, preclinical interrogations, well done, then we're clear. The import lobby works, and then it's part of the story I told yesterday. There's a second question opening. Will we, in this way, avoid all this and all that we want to do, close our domestic firms in this regard? Will it be possible for companies I mentioned, institutions, scientific, professional institutions, to contract with foreign drug manufacturers, to do pre-clinical tests for them? What would make it impossible for them if they weren't in law? They could have done it by now. Are we putting them under locks, too? We're putting new locks on instead of taking off the old ones. Why is that so disturbing?? We're not offering a change to the agency, we're offering the management, and the management's doing it. Did you understand more about the first member's comments? The government comments on points 7), 8) and 9. These are inspection controls, etc. And we believe that if we introduce a new body within the Ministry that it can carry out inspection, because the second-degree complaint is to the Minister or the Ministry. The second degree is preserved and there is no dilemma. Finally, they also refer to pharmacies, in one comment, arguing that "the pharmacies are not the subject of the law". Why pharmacies are mentioned in the distribution chain, even several members are engaged in distribution and traffic. That's very interesting, I didn't say it yesterday, but here I am today, when it comes to medical supplies, how they can only be distributed to pharmacies and specialized shops. I suppose the minister knows, at least as far as Hemofarma is concerned, that this house distributes drugs directly to hospitals, not hospital pharmacies. We don't know that institution. It distributes consumable material to patients on their feet. They've developed that network and then they're better off tendering and they can do it very well. Will they be forbidden? They got the equipment, bought the trucks, the complete equipment, developed the infrastructure, gave them the database. So, it's not that this law doesn't touch pharmacies, but it touches authority, on the surface, because, of course, the client of this law wasn't even interested, our pharmacies, our organization, but the pure profit and the opening of the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5802	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5803	I'll be very brief. I warned an authorised representative not to give us any unsatisfactory explanations. One solution was given in the article, which is completely illogical and out of the context of the SRS proposal. If you have so much space to explain these things, give us an explanation, we don't understand this, this is illogical. We have made clear what we have suggested and there is no conflict with our legal norm. As far as point 2) is concerned, that a preclinical drug test permit is issued, what a colleague before me read, it is clear that these are the largest laboratories that have been involved in preclinical studies so far. They beg not to be excluded from the law. There are no preclinical trials under the law. Let it not be in European norms. It is according to European standards, we will show you the laws in which it is regulated. There was no public debate. All Belgrade laboratories dealing with this, Vinca, medical research in Belgrade, ask to be mentioned at least in the law if their activities are not regulated. - I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5804	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5805	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 where I request that the first word "agency" be replaced by the word "government" and in the second word "age" be replaced by "government". The adoption of this law in Parliament, with such an agency, would result in another ministry, a double ministry, and today it is working to make the state apparatus as small as possible, i.e. the state of Serbia is not America that has a double ministry. Article 7 says - the agency has a board of directors, a supervisory board and a director. The Agency may also have a deputy director. The president, members of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, as well as the Director, that is, the Deputy Director, shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of four years and may be re-appointed for another election period. I'm interested, the government will name them, but whose proposal? I hope the minister will make up his list and will be appointed on his proposal. So it wasn't formulated on whose proposal. In order for this agency to work, a national control laboratory, a national centre for monitoring unwanted reactions, therefore, medicines and medical resources, a national drug and medical information centre, should be educated. It's a huge machine that this Serbian state can't stand! Furthermore, all these jobs will be done in the pharmaceutical sector, in the medical sector, in the veterinary sector, in the medical sector, in the information sector and in the administrative sector. So there's actually a number of sectors in one agency that will work without any control. I guarantee you that by adopting this law in two or three months, we will have new affairs, which is also the normal thing under this authority in Serbia, because Serbia is following any kind of affairs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5806	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for amendment to Article 7, as well as other amendments relating to the replacement of the words "agency" with "government". I'm a graduate lawyer, I'm not a doctor, I'm not medically educated, but I'm an organization of administrations. Reading the State Administration Act, I don't see why it would be an obstacle to being an agency, not a administration, or anything else, to see that it should be an agency, given the nature of the business it deals with and as prescribed. So it's exactly the opposite of what the SRS MPs claim, because that's how it comes from the State Administration Act. I'll tell you that according to a member of the 1st job administration, the department's authorities, the department's bodies, what you stand for, or a special organization. This is primarily about special administrative professional affairs and control of the certification of medicines and medical means. The most suitable form of organization and exercise of administrative functions is exactly the agency, not the institution. In particular, a colleague who has proposed that the word "agency" be deleted in Article 7(1) and that the word "government" be replaced, and in Article 2 too, this is an amendment which is legally impossible. This member has a 3rd position according to which the administration should have a board of directors and a supervisory board, which you yourself know is impossible. The Management Board and the Supervisory Board may only have an agency. Therefore, it is obvious that the amendment is not consistent with the text of the legal norm itself. So it's obvious here that the amendment is being set up for amendments, not for the essence. I would draw attention to what is very important and why the agency is forming. This agency has three special organisational units in its composition, meaning: a national control laboratory, a national drug monitoring centre and a national drug information centre, which is an extremely high achievement for me as a lawyer, because three very significant functions in this area are separated. Therefore, according to the State Administration Act, it is precisely the agency form in which these functions will be performed in the best way. And why do I say it the best way? It is said that there will be abuses, there will be corruption, but the ministry administration would not guarantee protection of public interest as guaranteed by the agencies. And why is that? The board has no board of directors and no board of directors. The administration, too, does not have to have people in their composition who do not have a proper relationship with other people who do certain jobs, as is foreseen here to apply the law on preventing conflicts of interest. I'm mentioning article 7. - and this is an extremely good provision that prevents people who do such a responsible job from being able to abuse their jobs. Therefore, this law really allows the agency to protect public interest. I note further, Article 4 or Article 5 provides for self-financing of the agency, which also ensures independence from budget funds, as well as from the ministry's influence on labour legality and on the Agency's work expertise. I therefore consider that no amendment aimed at replacing the organisational form of "agency" with "government" meets the Law on State Administration. It is precisely within the Agency that these professional jobs can be done in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5808	Thank you to the People's MP Mark Kristin. The word is Pai Momchilov, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5809	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if this had been said by a medic right now, I would have understood, and when a colleague points out a firm, I'm a lawyer, so this is what he says, then I'm in big trouble. First, a respected colleague, where there is an agency in our legislation as an institution, find me that law, legal law, because here one part of the position is often called for legality, disrespect for the law. In his speech, the prime minister said that the 3rd point is of importance to him to respect justice and legal regulations and that the first change of the Constitution would come, and then change of legal legislation. In order for it to be what you're talking about, and I'm surprised that you've declared yourself that way and that you're a lawyer, you're talking against legal norms, there's got to be a change in the Administration Act, the Ministry Act and the Administrative Procedure. It's an alphabet and we know that we're not lawyers. Find me a legal document that knows the agency, don't tell me it's a legal document, and I've been telling you what an agency from the British Encyclopedia is. According to Anglo-Saxon law, you have a relationship between someone who has the authority of an agent to perform on his behalf some of the business principles. That's the principle of a third-person agent. That my dear colleague has nothing to do with independence. You should know that, because it's an alphabet, it's a logic of the wrong. Why do you say that, you've given us one heavy charge, that we're just trying to obstruct. Dear fellow, this is how it's regulated in Slovenia as we propose, so the Ministry should run politics, you don't have to know that, the Minister should know that, because he needs to be involved in policymaking, to exempt himself from administrative proceedings; not to deal with applications, complaints and these things, so there are authorities of the administration, so there are inspection services so that a man can handle his affairs peacefully and bring laws that will help us to do better. The profession is not allowed to interfere with the administrative procedure. It's one principle and every country is trying to respect it. If Slovenia, which has entered the European Union and who knows some kind of agency, can leave these jobs that we have foreseen by amendment 7a and 7b, and they are in the laboratory, i.e. in the Pharmacy Office, as it exists today, namely, control of the quality of the drug and the national centre for monitoring unwanted effects, and to regulate it. If one Macedonia, which has an agency, can only employ four administration officials, and everything else can leave it to the laboratories of the Medical Faculty and others who do these jobs without talking about the rest of the world as regulated, and how you can now honor us that we are having a debate here and that we just want to derrogate the law. We're just telling you, you're talking about a conflict of interest, what you want to be an independent agency, from the government, so the government is corrupt. I believe that's true, that's what you're afraid of, it's subliminal to you, the government is corrupt, and here's what I'm going to tell you about the document. Here's a contract where the party you belong applied for a transfusion and reform project in health policy. The G17 plus party, I will give proof that it's public, which is what you're up for, and we're in favour of an unsuspecting government, which will not be used by the European tax collectors to reform the healthcare service.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5810	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Replica, to Mr. Momchilov's exhibit, please, Mark Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5811	I really didn't say the government was corrupt. Whoever claims something like that needs to prove it. What you've proven, it's nothing. If someone was looking for some means to secure it, they wanted it for the citizens of Serbia, they didn't ask for blood transfusions, it's not for themselves, and the party doesn't live from blood transfusions. Citizens are treated with blood. You should know better than that. So I didn't come from the fact that the government was corrupt, very busy, I wouldn't be in a party whose government would be corrupt! Maybe you were in some government that was corrupt, so you have experience. Since I haven't been in the government in the '90s, you've been, I haven't, you don't have any proof, it's a pure lie, and I'm still telling you that the agency is the most favourable form to organise this form of control, the form of control over the control of the drugs, the control of the making of medical resources, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5812	The People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5813	Dear colleague, I report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, where a colleague is required to deal with respect. I was in the government, but I'm not corrupt. Prove I'm corrupt! You're ashamed of anything you say!- I'm sorry. Now I'm going to read you what the deal is. The minister probably knows: the contract is the Hards Programme and it is about raising our capacities, health services, the sum is modest, about 200,000 euros and of course there is a G17, a group with a German firm GVG (D). This is (from the Internet) a public document that anyone can reach. If it's reached the Internet, we're a global village, you can see it too, go online, look, and maybe we'll give you other papers, to convince you a little bit more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5814	Thank you. Now we've solved the matter of the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Masic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 7a be added after Article 7. and 7b. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5815	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted this amendment with the aim of defining part of the control or control of the quality of the drugs, given that you, by forming the agency, predicted that the control of the drugs was carried out by a national control laboratory within the Agency, that there was a national centre for the monitoring of adverse reactions of medicines and medical agents. We in the SRS propose a different concept of drug control: part of the administrative work to run the drug administration, and part of the control of the quality of medicines to continue to work those who have worked so far have been actively involved in the work. Basically, according to their studies, the registration of medicines on our market has been performed, and every newly produced drug series has been controlled by the Department of Pharmacy. I suppose that part of the work will be carried out by people from the Office of Pharmacy of the Republic of Serbia and for these reasons, appropriate to the present time in our country, we have suggested that this is not done in a newly formed agency, in some new rooms with the purchase of new equipment and the use of enormously large funds, but in an institution that has done a very good and quality job, it has an enviable human potential, it has equipment and everything this job requires. I suggest that Article 7a be defined after article 7. and these are the responsibilities of the Republic Pharmacy Office of Serbia and that the first task is just to carry out laboratory controls on the quality of medicines and medical resources. Then, this institution shall: perform and implement the classification of medicines and medical means; undertake the collection and processing of data on the transport and use of medicines and medical means; provide information and suggestions for the rational use of medicines and medical means; connect to international networks information on medicines and medical means, as well as the association of agencies; carry out education and other tasks and tasks that this law requires. I also suggest that you be behind Article 7a. defines Article 7b. defining the responsibilities of the National Centre for the Monitoring of Unsolicited Facts of Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. He is now existing at the Clinical Centre of the Republic of Serbia and we suggest that the part of the job remain in their jurisdiction. As a veterinarian, I suggest that part of these activities be carried out in a new health care facility to monitor the unwanted fact. I think there's so much excess, which I hope a small number of medications will register, use, which will show unwanted facts. And it is important that we in the SRS agree that there is a centre to which this will be reported and which will further inform the scientific and professional public that some of the medicines used, whether in human or veterinary medicine, cause certain harmful effects and unwanted facts. That's why we think it can be defined like this. I hope that this is our proposal for a quality control organisation, above all, more rational and appropriate to our time, that it has given good results so far, because that part of the job in the control of newly produced medicines, in the control of medicines in the registration process, in the issue of permits, has been carried out by this institution. I don't think you can argue that and think that in some newly formed agency, some new and other people will do better and more effectively this job, than what was done so far, which is why in this country, they're registered and controlled drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5816	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5817	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in addition to this amendment, I warned the promoter that we would not tolerate such arguments as you did when you returned our amendments. Here's what you're saying: "In addition, the monitoring of unwanted drug reactions cannot be in the jurisdiction of a health institution, as it is proposed by the amendment, since the importance of monitoring unwanted drug reactions and medical remedies of the republican interest, and accordingly, this job is entrusted to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Serbia." Imagine, not one institution – Clinical Center, which is of republican interest, which can be an agency, which is a public service of republican interest. What's this?- I'm sorry. Can you explain to me where logic is? So you resent us for giving one institution, and we've given it as it has been so far, that this collection centre, of course, does not go and run alone, must organize the network, you'll certainly do it with sublegal acts, I hope. Now you say – you suggest an institution. Yes, we propose an institution of republican interest, and you say -- that's not right, we have an agency, the agency is something above. It's a sorceress in heaven or on earth. It's one hybrid, and we fight against it with our amendments. One more thing. To think of the social interest, I ask Mr. Minister, the law which formed the Institute of Pharmacy, in Article 4, says - task: to study and propose programmes and methods of working on professional training of pharmaceutical staff; Article 5 - to cooperate with state bodies, health and other institutions and organisations on issues from its work; the Institute serves as a teaching base for professional training of pharmaceutical personnel. You're turning one of the institutions of national interest into a lab. Who will do this to you, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5818	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5819	It simply sounds ridiculous to defend this bill, and it is particularly funny how the arguments against the amendments proposed by the SRS to amend and supplement this law are presented. What is interesting and characteristic of the period over the past four years, that there is one continuity: when one lobby is to be formed in Serbia, to prepare a good basis for the existence of the mafia in certain areas, then it is best through some legal frameworks or through proposals of such or similar laws to be implemented through the will of the majority in the Assembly. The reminders for the sake of it, colleagues, we all remember when in this assembly, not so long ago, there was a debate on the laws on traffic and tobacco production, where in a similar way the agency was formed. At that time, we Serbian radicals warned that the law legalises "the tobacco lobby" or, rather, "the tobacco mafia", headed by Cane - Frog. The defence of the legal proposal was then a majority -- no, rather, order is being introduced in production, distribution and sales. Where are you gentlemen picking up those floscules, and you're still going on with those floscules. What kind of producers are you gonna control the world's big pharmaceutical company? They have clearly defined their interests, they have their spheres. Isn't the best proof of cement sales to you? These big companies have shared their interest zones. That's how it's going to be in drug production. What happens after the law is passed? Domestic producers, due to unfair competition, will shut down their production. What is the purpose of this law? The aim of this law is to establish an agency, an institution, one body that will legalise the monopoly of distributors and drug sellers. That's the pharmaceutical mob. The pharmaceutical mafia, apart from the mafia that gathered in the privatisation process, the tobacco mafia and the mafia that will rule Serbia in the next law, which deals with production and sales, or trade in energy. You, persistently rejecting amendments to the SRS, where instead of the word "agency", the SRS offers to be "government", you are aware that it is not only a change of name, but a fundamental change of law. The essence of our proposal is to be a comprehensive control and work of the Ministry, the work of the Government and the work of that administration, and you are doing it in a tried-out way -- by forming an agency, you are apparently dislocating it from government control. Gentlemen, we're not blind in the eyes. You see, the other day, the biggest affair, when the Director of the Privatisation Agency was replaced, was revealed all of this which we warn you of. The privatisation agency, in fact, was run by a minister, individuals, and could not be controlled by the government. Who's gonna run this agency and control it? Resort minister. What do you think the Secretary of Resorship is famous for? He's one in a series of examples of the continuity of the previous government. It's a man who, by respecting integration and standardisation at the world level, banned the use of Chinese drugs, under the pretext that they were not correct, that there was a laboratory examination of the data that they were not correct. The man questioned interstate relations, caused a scandal. The best he could do for the minister, which is why he resigned. The smallest "tal" had, so he resigned, there was little to it when they shared. Now this same minister tells us that this law is in the interest of integration. (President: Mr Mircic, I warn you of expression. () What are you warning me? What, did he change his name or look? He's the same man. (President: I now warn you twice. )......................................................................................................... In the name of integration and standardisation, the same law defends itself. What standardization, Minister? Standards have already been adopted, all laboratories have to work and comply with the same standards. What are the sales standards - at the world rate, that's how you'll work. The World Trade Organisation has laid down regulations. You won't be telling us much right now. (President: Time. No, you want to legalize the pharmaceutical mafia. Say it loud and clear. And who's going to be in charge, Minister, that's what you tried to do once, so you saw how you were in the previous government. In the previous government, you were relieved because of your exaggeration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5820	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? MP Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5821	Mr. Mircic, explain to me how you will prevent it, since you are the professional discoverer of the mafia in Serbia, in all areas of social life, how will the continued mafia be prevented if the agency is called management? Let me ask you: is it good for the ministry to control the administration, or is it not good for the agency? Is it good that the government controls the agency or isn't it good? In your presentation, we heard: the agency controls the government, the minister controls the agency, the agency controls the minister, the management controls the agency, the agency controls the administration. Arrange with the SRS whether you want the administration to be in the Ministry and under the minister's authority or it will be the other way around, as you said: there's too much of the minister's authority, so it controls the agency, and, of course, the mafia stands out. Let me remind you of your amendment in which you say the administration will be established within the Ministry of Health, and you have dozens of amendments that talk about veterinary medicines. How can something located in the Ministry of Health deal with the veterinary area? So here overlaps several social areas. There's also something going on at the Department of Commerce, etc. That's why everything's gonna be united at that agency. But the fear of the agencies makes me think that Serbian radicals don't go to sea through travel agencies, because there's probably a mob hiding there, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5822	Replica, Mr. Mircic, and then the People's MP, Paya Momchilov, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5823	Dear colleague, I apologize for not knowing your name and name exactly and for reasons not to make a mistake, I refrain from making such a mistake, but in this part where you don't understand, I will try to help you. What you don't hear, that's what another institution is responsible for. Don't take it for yourself, finishing medical school, discussing a law like this, where most of it is economic and legal issues. I'm a technology engineer by profession and by vocality, I can competently discuss this, my dear colleague. Therefore, by permuting words in your head, do not take those observations out of this pay phone. There is one more convenient place in congregation spaces where you can present your observations on the subject. And there, if anything else, would protect the human environment. But what's evident -- you directly cooperate in legalising the pharmaceutical mafia. You who...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5824	So now I'm warning you for the third time. Next time, I'll turn off your microphone because I warned you three times to treat the MPs with respect. You've just accused the MP of participating in an excuse for the mafia. Be kind, treat the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5825	Here, I accept your suggestion. You are involved in the support of the person and person who is involved illegally in trade, traffic and the production of medical means and medicines. Can I put it this way, Mr. President, that's how I formulate it?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5826	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5827	You see how the communist vocabulary is adapted to the new democracy and passed by the president. But it's not a subject. My esteemed colleague, none of us, the Serbian radicals, is either by birth or by commitment, or by the least professional discoverer of the mafia. But what good luck if you didn't figure it out in such a humorous way and showed it. So far, if nothing else, at least more recognizable mobsters would be on their way. So far, recognizable mobsters have robbed this Serbia, and you, in addition to newspaper articles, statements and statements from this pay phone, a defiant nature, that we are professional discoverers of the mafia, want to reduce the importance of an individual who is a member of the SRS. Every Serbian radical, whether in the assembly or outside the assembly, fights crime. And to us, if you're serious, it's an epithet, what you say, and a confession we're proud of. But, sir, I now warn you of a threat that threatens you, and you understand it in just such a proper way, and don't argue or put me in a place where I would like to be in any way and take it. But when you say it, and especially when you say it, it's the least appropriate place for me, and whether you answer me or not, it's not the subject of this conversation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5828	Three minutes and 32 seconds, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Paja Momchilov, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5829	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here, now the debate is going on some strange course. Let's get back to our law and interpretations. Dear fellow Ilic was not well understood, it is not the first time, and I understand, the sessions are in the summer period, by emergency procedure, we are exhausted and it is possible that man cannot connect everything. The MPs of the SRS have this proposal, and we will give it to you (he holds the material in his hands) and in this form, shematized, get from top experts, our academics. Unlike our esteemed minister, who is not a frequent guest there and does not attend professional medical gatherings organized by our Academy of Science, we respect our teachers. We always consult them on all matters relevant to this country. We know it's not all of us, that the world doesn't come from us. We also appreciate the wisdom that made it possible for us to be who we are today. Well, if we're not the best, we understand that. Let's not be angry with our teachers again, because we always have to overcome our teachers. So what we're saying isn't nonsense, Mr. Ilic. These are the expert opinions of top-notch people. I keep telling you -- that's how America, England, works, that's how highly developed countries work. I'll give you these schemes with pleasure. But, please, we've explained that to you and that's clear. I just want to tell you -- this story Mr. Mircic told you, take it seriously. It's a well-intentioned story. It's a story that interests Serbian citizens. She's not interested in MPs' positions and I understand that. Mr. Mircic addressed the citizens of Serbia because, unfortunately, it will be that we are the only ones among the last to have little hope that will finally be the state at least try to fight criminals and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5830	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? It's a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5831	I said that what the agency is going to call management won't fundamentally change anything, and that ambivalent relationship with whether it should be in the ministry or not, which can be recognized in different discussions, I also had to underline. Therefore, my wish was to talk about that amendment not fundamentally changing. And all of this, I didn't mention any nonsense, Mr. Mircic mentioned some rooms, some facilities, etc. I don't know what he meant, and I don't want to talk about it. So there are models like this. Try to regulate this area. No law is ideal. We hope, so we are explained by the legislator, that the law will improve everything related to this area - transport, production, drug use and medical resources and therefore vote for it, of course with our proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5832	Replica, MP Mircic. This was a replica of Mr. Momchilov's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5833	To plow with my colleague, respecting my colleague and his integrity as a MP, correctness. My colleague, I was thinking about the rooms where the committees are held, for health care, for the rooms available to the MPs. You could have told me personally and any Serbian radical in person, and not from this pay phone, to use the opportunity, to permute and misread our exposure, you want to sort of point in politics. Besides, I can see what your problems are. You must defend the bill that did not propose a member of your party. It's a pain in the ass. It's difficulties. But these are the little troubles you're expecting if you don't listen and don't accept the amendments to the SRS. In doing so, we do not claim that every amendment we make is ideal. Of course, this amendment came from the amendment to Article 1. The next course and order of things, we are on all amendments, believing that you will seriously consider the amendment to Article 1 and, by accepting that amendment, you must change the name. The essence changes, my colleague. You can make as many arguments as you want, but multiple controls must be. If multiple controls on the Privatisation Agency existed, none of this would have happened. The public wouldn't be bombed by affairs. The public would not be bombed now by the former director of the agency, who and how he abused and benefited. And everything at the expense of the Serbian citizens. That they then obeyed the MPs of the SRS and that agency placed under multiple control, and not like this, and then it was clear that then the government, the personnel of the ministers who made it, was preparing their resignation. How would this bill that provides for the agency differ? That's the point. That's what we need to discuss. And will you from this pay phone, in your opinion, misquoting every radical, get points from your party associates, there's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5834	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5835	Here, dear colleague Ilic has well noticed that I did not answer him - how now, if he adopts as we suggest, there will be less crime and mafia. Very simple. Let's start a clinical trial. According to the bill, the clinical trial of drugs is what happens when there's, say, some new drug factory invented it and says that now it can go to clinical trials. Who's funding, who's paying? The self-financed agency is paid by a company that's interested in placing it. And when in the management of the body involved, it is financed by budgets. Sure. You've been explained that he'll have his income, but he's going into the budget. It is believed in every normal civilized country that it is far less possible to influence the authorities of the administration. Even in Serbia, I know, when you tell me, it's not worth it, but we want to be Europe. If you move an agency out of the system of administration, it's far easier to influence it, especially a buster institution where both the profession and the administration are mixed. Imagine you, there's a lab, there's a pera that gives licenses, so she says, "Come on, speed it up or don't look at everything." That's all possible. And when the profession is alone, when experts work under the law, when there is a pharmaceutical institute and there can be corruption, but the chances are far less and civilized world knows it, knows and understands it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5836	Anyone else want a word? National MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5837	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, said Mr. People's MP, I don't know his name, at the beginning of my discussion - I graduated from law school. It's unfortunate that half goes through college, and half goes through college. That's exactly how Cedomir Jovanovic went through college, I guess he studied dramaturgy, so he directed with your help a tragedy that has been playing in Serbia for four years and, in the case of parliamentary elections. Only then will this tragedy end. National MP Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to Article 9 where the word "Agency" is replaced by the word "Government". All of our amendments that we have submitted, which relate to members who have the word "the Agency" are asking to be changed to the word "Government," precisely because of what we've been talking about all along. The agency will be a special body also run by the minister, but no longer as a minister, but as head of the task force Mr Mircic spoke of. A lot of agencies have formed, you've hired a lot of people, there's a lot less opportunities for the agencies to control themselves from the administration, and the administration will be under a hat, under the hands of both the Ministry and the Government and the state, and that's the only way complete control can be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5838	Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The amendment reads: "Article 10(1) is replaced by the word "Government" in the word "Government", and in other points, as in other points, the word "Agency" in the corresponding decline is replaced by the word "Government" in the corresponding decline. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5839	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. None of the morning sessions have changed. From that morning's finding, things have gone one step further, now the minister acts like Michelangelo and says, "Let me go, I'm resting, I'm sleeping." He is not responding to any exposure to the Serbian radical and probably does not want to understand the essence, or to whisper to any of those who are not even representatives of his party, what the SRS really wants and why the law is changing in this way. Mr. Minister, it's not technical, it's essential. In order for you to have this distressing debate, in this way, or obviously incomprehensible by those who support you, I will have to go back to Article 1. He is in close contact with Article 10 on which I submitted the amendment, as well as with what he said in his explanation, Mr Blazic. That's because you and I are in an argument not to accept the amendment to Article 10. The draft law, which speaks of jurisdiction, on how the director of the agency was appointed, said that the reasoning is the same as in Article 1. I'll take you back to Article One and tell you what's the point. So, the agency is replaced by the word management for reasons why, so Dr Blazic says, "The position of the Serbian Radical Party is to establish instead of the Agency a management that should be an organ within the Ministry of Health, responsible for administrative (administrative) affairs in the field of medicines and medical resources." Both you and the lawyers and those who are not, and all those who have come out so far and with misunderstanding, tendingly, deliberately misread the amendments of the MPs of the SRS, should know that this is the essence. So you wouldn't then be able to appoint a director through the establishment of such an agency in this way. Not only that, but the problem and the essence of everything and in proposing this law and in general national health policy is that you, Tomica Milosavljevic, are currently the current health minister. That's the biggest problem. Then the other problem, and the fact that you didn't write this law, was made by so-called experts from countries clearly counted by Dr. Pai Momchilov. The third problem is your lack of understanding of the essence and concept of the SRS law, which is being changed by amendment. The fourth problem is that, again, I am going back to who you are and what you are, what your environment and what you've been doing so far, that you are prone to the boast and authority that you have as a health minister in some way sanctify yourself with your political indifferences. This morning I only told you on flashes what kind of problem is going on at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, and for me, there is open suspicion of the possibility that you were given to a member of the 10th in the appointment of the director of the agency, that you should also do the same in the future appointment, that is, the replacement of the director of the agency. Now there are some names that figure in the professional public. I'm also hanging out with doctors and experts in the area, and they're mostly in the ranks of the SRS. They say it can be a person "a", "b", or "c", and if he's a pharmacologist, whether it's from another profession, it doesn't matter. But it's important that he's close to you, for his part, that he's one of the "five-octobatral revolutions" fighters, that he's already done a double, triple reconstruction from one party to another, and that now it's time to appoint the director of the G17 agency. After all, even a few days ago when the new "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" came out, we could clearly see that you from your party and other parties were a participant in the government of the interest zone and groupings determined according to universities, according to state institutions, and why we would then trust you that on the basis of professional qualifications, based on what that man has achieved in his profession to choose the director of the agency. - The director of the agency has very high powers and it is unnecessary that there is an agency at all, and when you are a minister and the Government appoints a director, then answer my question, here, we are approaching the finality of today's assembly session, and the union of employees at the Clinical Center is gathering -- why does the Director of the Clinical Centre bother you? I don't know which political party it's from, and it's absolutely irrelevant. If that's how you want to change it, would you, in the case of the director of the agency -- if this first candidate is a public figure, if it's obvious by your choice, don't do what you're going to order him to do, whether he'll be replaced in the same way. To prevent that, and to prevent all of you who in this way want to use the function you're in, we're going to join the request of the health union staff of the Clinical Center for your shift, for the shift of the entire government, because it's obvious that with you and these laws we can't expect anything good, not the employees of health care, nor our citizens in whose name and interest you're making such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5840	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5841	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I can hardly answer questions that are not questions. In most discussions, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, which dealt with a different concept of regulation of this area, there are no real questions to which a constructive answer is expected and a contribution to making the law as good as possible. In fact, there is an entirely opposite view and it is repeated repeatedly, claims are made, papers are waved and qualifications are given in advance, which are so justified that there is no point in answering them. The government's report on the work of the agency is foreseen as a commitment at least twice a year, and at the request of the health ministry and health minister, this report can be more frequent. It includes, of course, the financial report and the financial plan. The funds in the budget are provided for in section 27 of the Health Ministry, under the subsidy item, amounting to 90 million dinars. The observation that there are unregistered diagnostic preparations -- of course there are, that's why we regulate this area so strictly. A series of amendments concerning the touching parts between the veterinary sector and the medical sector deserve to be said that, in fact, the conditions in all areas of human and veterinary medicines are uniform. You'll let, yes, we as doctors have an interest in treating citizens with the kind of food they eat. It doesn't matter if the animals we eat from will be treated with such or such preparations. Hence, the agency's ability to regulate both areas in one way with the same high standards. A series of remarks by veterinarians, stand - and, as they know, very well, in many members of the law, the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Veterans is very clearly indicated and through sublegal acts will be very precise. Control, i.e. inspection affairs related to opiates and narcotics: control and inspection operations are administrative procedures and therefore, they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and, on the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture, and everything else related to production and quality is of course within the Agency. Preclinical studies, which are mentioned here, are actually an example of an accidental lack of understanding of matter. Preclinical trial is an integral part of drug production. The medicine is a product containing a substance intended for treatment. While he does not contain that substance, he is in a laboratory study and colleagues from research institutes know very well. They are misquoted here and therefore preclinical studies as basic scientific studies are not the subject of this law. At the agency's dilemma - management: there were brilliant answers in MPs' statements, so I think they're clear enough. Monitoring unwanted reactions is, of course, an unusually important area, something that needs to be in a single top and national institution, and it really needs to be an agency. For some who do not know exactly what the Committee is called, it is not called the Health Committee, but rather the Health and Family Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5842	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5843	Since you don't want to deal with our amendments -- as if they deserve any comment, I'd just like to ask a question, since you say there are no questions. What's the difference between the agency, how you imagined it, and the administration, how do we imagine it? What difference does it make if the agency for its work corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What difference does it make if all the agency's jobs are eventually covered by the minister in charge of health care? What difference does it make if the Government chooses the Director of the Agency, on a proposal from the Minister of Health? What is the difference except that you have singled out under the direct control of the minister is one very important, one terribly important agency, which will have rooms dislocated from the minister and the government, whose director, who himself brings an act on the systematization of jobs in that agency, will feel and be very important, and will be discussed with him by those who were referred to by the MPs of the SRS, which means - lobbyists, especially the importers of medicines. If it weren't for the power capital here, you'd accept it as management. Any responsible minister would like what he's responsible for to be in his immediate vicinity. If you think that there's gonna be an excuse for the agency if it doesn't work out, you're wrong. For your lesser sins, you have resigned in time. This would be a much greater sin for you. At the time, it was as if you were being brought into government by someone else. After this, Mr. Minister, there are no two times, three times - no one will bring you in, I guarantee you that. First of all, you've earned nothing in your work so far to be a minister, but you're not the worst of it. I wouldn't have a word of praise for almost any minister in this government, so you're here somewhere on the level and you can even walk freely with the government. In this government, you deserve to be a minister. Why didn't you ask the government to dismiss the director on your proposal, if she'd already appointed him on your proposal? How come one man can't be named, not even after a contest, without your proposal, and they can resolve him without your opinion? Is this a chance for people's shifts? Why didn't you secure yourself that way? You'll set up your G17 plus here and imagine that one day you'll be relieved, and you can't defend it. You guys were supposed to be in G17 plus a little bit of insurance, 'cause now that you're in charge, that doesn't mean they're safe for you. Not even in this mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And if I were you, I'd translate this more carefully -- I'd ask for some corrections in English first, and then they'd translate it into Serbian so it could go before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand that you're calling a contest, that after that contest, your opinion is appropriate. Without your opinion, the government cannot appoint a director, and then it can be resolved without your opinion. You should have fought for that man, because it's actually going to fall on his back. We'd like to keep this from getting out of the government, to keep this in the minister's hands, to have the minister answer, and anyway this law, except for what the agency says, all the minister, but all the minister. He's being added somewhere by the Department of Veteran Affairs, and you're now using it to transfer something to radicals. Of course, that's important to us, too, but it's about medicine for people. Of course, and for that part that's very important, and for us it's much more important this first part, this one goes with it, and of course, to regulate this law and human medicine, and also the veterinary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5844	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5845	I'm done. Don't reject the amendments because they're written by the SRS! Because I remember all of you: from the time you wrote amendments to someone else's laws and always objected to you being rejected without reading, and it was always the one who rejected the amendments without reading "bad news in the next election". Because it's the opposition's job to look for weak spots in the law. The government's job is to admit that a weak spot was discovered, which the government didn't want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5846	Six minutes, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5847	I'm done. Since I haven't been out today, I'd like to pass with some minor warning. We won't take the money anymore! That's what we agreed on on on the Administrative Committee. Where's Pera Cvetkovic? We won't do that anymore! So if you didn't want to hide the faults of this law, then listen carefully to the amendment debate. We might point to some mistake you weren't aware of when you were writing or when you were discussing the law. That's all we want. Believe me, it's summer for both of us. We are not masochists, to torture ourselves, not to go to sea, only so that you may not go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5848	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5849	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I already thought the minister had taken the tactics -- "dogs barking, caravans passing by," maybe in the end it will be, but, behold, he shows up and you saw what he told us. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said that we had misused the quote. Let me read to you what the directors of the lab wrote, see who abuses the opinion of the expert public. He says this way: "Dear Dr Momchilov", in addition to delivering a memo signed by the director of almost all Serbian institutes working in the field and in medicine...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5850	Mr. Momchilov, I'm asking you to talk about an amendment that reads, item 1 point 1), the word "age" is replaced by "government." Be nice, come in, talk about the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5851	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5852	Here you go, call it in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5853	Now you see Mr. Markovic interrupts me. I understand Mr. Markovic, his motives are clear to me. Mr. Markovic, you are a man of certain width and you are engaged in publishing. You must know that every exposure has an introduction...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5854	Mr. Momchilov, I'm in the business of running the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure, be kind, it's about the amendment, and be kind and talk about the amendment. I can read it again if it's not clear, like these previous six amendments, so it says this: the word "age" is replaced by "government" and be kind enough to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5855	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5856	I'll give you back your time so you can talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5857	Don't pay me back, first of all, it's ugly that I'm having a dialogue with you, either way, you're older than me in a position, not in years. Don't make a dialogue, I respect you, I respect your function, not you, you know, but what you're doing, this is abuse. Please, it's an abuse. Look, as an opposition MP, and within three minutes I can literally torture here, that's my right, that's what the citizens gave me who chose me. Don't make up my mind, don't tell me you're the leader! Let me explain the amendment with two or three introductory quotations. If he can't do it, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5858	It's okay. Mr. Momchilov, therefore, you have no reason to worry, not for three minutes, you have five minutes, because it's about the amendment, and the only condition is that you talk about the amendment, and here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5859	I'm absolutely talking about the amendment right now. I am just taking this opportunity to explain this concept of our SRS that is mentioned in this amendment. I just want to give Mr. Secretary one piece of information, he doesn't have time to get all the information, and he says that we abuse, when we defend amendments, the opinions of experts. I just wanted to read those three lines, and if you don't give it to me, I'll give it to Mr. Secretary, so he'll most certainly apologize after that. Here, I'll let the minister read it, and he'll say if I abuse this pay phone and tell false things.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5860	Thank you for your correctness. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5861	Mr. President, with all due respect and respect for your personality and your function, I must reiterate my dissatisfaction with the fact that I have not yet received an answer to the parliamentary question, even though you have tried to convince me that this answer has arrived. I expected, when I came in, that it would be here, however, on my bench there is no answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, the answer shall be delivered within a month at the latest. It's been four full months, and there's still no answer. I just want to take a quick look at the question I asked, because MPs don't know what it's about. I asked you, as president of the Assembly, to provide a health minister with my issue concerning transfusions, i.e. the reorganisation of the Serbian Blood Transfusion Service, where I wanted an explanation from Mr. Minister on procedures and on activities related to the reorganisation. In fact, Mr. Nedeljkovic explained a little more in his presentation today, and I'm just going to remind you briefly. In late 2001, the reorganisation of Serbia's Blood Transfusion Service began, where the European Agency for Reconstruction singled out fivem euros. The aim of this reorganisation was to build on, among other things, the national plasma function centre and to...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5862	Mr. Jovanovic, are you telling me that this is an environmental way to talk about the amendment? You called to talk about the amendment, be kind, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5863	Mr. President, you've been very careful to tell me that the answer has arrived.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5864	It is and will be forwarded to you, and now be kind enough to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5865	I'm asking now, if you won't let me explain the parliamentary question, and that's obvious, that the Management Board pleads on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that's what you did, because you didn't provide me with an answer within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5866	Please tell me which member, I'll be right there, tell me? So 193. Thank you. I'm asking the Assembly to come forward. Thank you, and now proceed with the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5867	I ask that the Administrative Board be declared, not the Assembly. As regards amendments to Article 13, it is the logical consequence of the SRS amendment to Article 1 and to all others that have been explained so far. In fact, it is a different concept that we are in favour of, which is a concept not to accept the concept proposed by the minister, i.e. the proposer, the concept that foresees the existence of the agency, but our concept of forming a management of medicines and medical resources within the Ministry. It is incomprehensible and amazing what is written in the explanation of these amendments and it has been delivered by the Government; where the amendment is rejected, for the reasons mentioned for not accepting Article 1. - and says that the agency is a self-financed service, which is independent in its work, etc., and then said that the agency performs the tasks it performs as entrusted jobs and that these jobs are entrusted by the Ministry of Health to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. It's just amazing that the agency that's financially independent gets some business as trusted. It is also amazing what is claimed in the reasoning that the agency's work will be supervised by the ministry responsible for health affairs and the ministry responsible for veterinary affairs. How can the ministry monitor if the agency is financially independent and independent of the government, or ministries? This is impossible, and I think we should accept that concept we suggested. It is, accepting amendments to Article 1 and when it is accepted all of this is a technical amendment, correction or technical preparation of this legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5868	Thank you to the MP Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14, MP Momir Markovic, the Government and the Committee on Health and Family did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee observes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot of words have been spoken for this speaker by the MPs of the SRS in favour of the vindication of the agency's replacement under the authority of the Ministry of Health. The issue is, when it comes to the agency, the creation of a hybrid organisation called the medicines and medical resources agency of Serbia. Why the hybrid? Because it has prerogatives, on the one hand, certain administrative tasks, as part of the resolution of the competent Ministry of Health, and on the other hand professional jobs in the field of pharmacies that it takes over from the Department of Pharmacy, which is hereby abolished, in relation to the control of medicines and medical resources, etc. This amendment to the "Agency-Government" route stems from the first amendment to Article 1. The bill, submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic, continues in terms of our interpretation, for this speaker, so that we could persuade the MPs of the majority to vote in favour of the justification for accepting our amendments and for the sake of the public, to convince them that we, in the SRS, have a clear, defined argument and an excuse and reason enough and the reasons why we present these views in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for this speaker. We in the SRS believe that the agency is needlessly and over-needs too much authority and power, because it is detached from the competent ministry, and it is directly under the control of the government, and we want the competent minister to have all the powers, and authority and subordination, by the people who run this resort, which is the administration within the competent health ministry. Due to the above, as well as the accumulation of a new number of workers, it is said that 155, public spending, new material costs and wages, we SRS MPs believe that instead of the proposed agency, it is necessary for the existing services to form a management within the Ministry of Health. So this isn't about termological values, dimensions, greater essentials. We in the SRS accept that it is not justified that the legislator, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pushes a foreign pharmaceutical company to the expense of domestics and we believe that the most important element of the adoption of such a bill is this; the whole purpose is to force foreign pharmaceutical companies to take a monopoly and primate over pharmaceutical flows of sales and trade in medicines and medical resources. When it comes to the agency, this is about the directive of someone powerful outside our country's borders, that it must form an agency. There is often a situation where someone who observes the reasons for the Agency's introduction, says - whoever is for the agency, he is for Europe, the EU, and we are left for another side of the world, New Guinea, something else, so it does not stand as some excuse when the Agency explains the existence of an agency, unlike our arguments that we make here at a pay phone in order to justify the existence of a administration within the Ministry of Health. A small number of transition countries formed by agencies of this type, especially when it comes to self-financing, for providing administrative and professional jobs. And finally, all the jobs that the agency needs to do can be done by the competent ministry and the existing, with the possible reinforcement of personnel, because other professional personnel and people in the state are gone, they can't be invented, except for these "realians" who do human cloning, they do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5870	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) To Article 19. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must, before I present what I have submitted to Article 19 of this Law, the amendment's presentation, to just briefly refer to Mr. Minister's previous presentation on veterinary medicinal products, which have been presented here. Every serious producer in this country, and especially in the world, who has introduced Good Manufacturing Practice guidelines, has absolutely no difference in the production of human and veterinary medicinal products, neither in technology nor in the way of production, nor in control, and that is something that is certain in our country, in the past 10 or 15 years, introduced, especially for foreign producers. Therefore, this law and the establishment of an agency absolutely does not regulate anything better and better quality than the existing law, and especially in the existing control laws. What will be bad, in my opinion, regarding veterinary medicinal products, is the control of veterinary medicinal products that will be carried out at the agency by a national control laboratory. You will agree that there is a certain group of specific veterinary medicinal products that are not used in human medicine, such as anti-parasetics, which are very specific in certain animals and there is a specific control procedure, which, for example, the Republic Pharmacy Office has not worked since such drugs did not have control. By transferring this job to the agency, I wonder, in which, what, and how much more quality these drugs will be controlled. I don't think anything's going to improve in that sense, the control of veterinary medicinal products. What I want to ask for the third time, and it's incomprehensible for me to be deaf, Mr. Minister, is from which section and which economic classifications of the adopted budget will be provided, you didn't say, to cover the 90 million dinars for the establishment of the agency. In the end, I would move on to an amendment relating to the payment of a fee for tasks to be in charge of the medical administration. This amendment proposes that the fee be made or charged for: granting licences and for the marketing of medicinal products and medicinal products, as well as amending and supplementing authorisations for the marketing of medicinal products and medical medicinal products; thereafter, issuing authorisations for clinical examination of medicinal products and medical medicinal products; issuing assurances on the application of Good Clinical Practice in clinical trials of medicinal products and medical agents; issuing assurances for the purposes of exporting medicinal products and medical means; authorising imports of unregistered medicinal products and medical products; issuing an opinion with an assessment of the documentation for obtaining marketing authorisations and medical resources, as well as other expert opinions from the administration's competence. The method of payment of the compensation, as well as the amount of compensation corresponding to the actual costs of the operations carried out, will determine the management. As you might have noticed, here I have singled out two activities that are provided for as payment options, and what is in the jurisdiction of the Pharmacy Office, of course, there should be chargeable, that is, first of all, control of the quality of medicines and issuing a certificate of the quality of medicines.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5872	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5873	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, article 19 speaks of compensations belonging to the Agency. That's where we come back to the essence of our disagreement, even though it's not clear to you and you don't want to understand. Now it's a big part issue here, or a huge amount of money that's going to be poured into the account of a job agency that she's been entrusted with, and that's multiple. If you have written in Article 19 of the Minister’s Office that the Agency is entitled to compensation for performing the following tasks: “1) issuing licences for the marketing of medicinal products and medical products, as well as amendments, additions and renewals to the marketing authorisation of medicinal products; 2) issuing licences for clinical examination of medicinal products and medical means”, means, only licences, and only later coming to the order of clinical examination; 3) controlling the quality of medicinal products and medical products; 4) issuing assurances on the application of Good Clinical Practices guidelines in clinical trials of medicinal products and medical means; 5) issuing assurances for the purposes of exporting medicinal products and medical means”, means, for the purposes of exporting medicinal products, which these houses will be able to do, which they do not; 6) granting imports of unregistered medicines and medical medicinal products", again, it is a very large matter and a tendency to do import lobby work against the currentones , as well as I am responsible for the management of the medical documents and medical documents ofSerbia). First of all, no amount of compensation is prescribed for such transactions that the Agency takes for granted. So it's astronomical figures. You're not going to tell me, with all the soufflé of the lady next to you, that money will be managed. How, when the point is that there's an agency that we won't be able to control?- I'm sorry. Let it go - every two months you will receive a report on the agency's work and on the funds spent! When the Privatisation Agency was established, Vlahovic also swore to us here, so we didn't get a single report. They've got the board of directors. What was he doing yesterday and today, the Privatisation Committee? He discusses robbery in businesses across Serbia. Then what we need to do in a few months -- that we have representatives of Galenika, Hemofarma, Health, I don't know which pharmaceutical houses, and that they're telling us that you've issued an import permit for a drug, which is reportedly going to be studied later. A certain amount should be given to the interrogator, and that is unknown – how much, and all is done because of the interest of one. So it's conscious that there's an open possibility of malfeasance and abuse. None of this would be if there were no agency, as such, as a special institution, with its business space, with its director, with its employees. The worst of all, the big and fundamental difference, Mr. Minister, is whether the money from all of this I've counted, and perhaps the MPs didn't want to read and may not be in a situation or not want to understand, how much money and how much revenue will be collected from going to the budget, or directly at the expense of the Ministry of Health, or, in this way, through a completely autonomous agency, which has its own director with huge powers, it will be spent. How much are these funds? - Let's get back to it: issuing a marketing authorisation, then only then a clinical trial and multiple payments for what it takes to put a drug or medical agent on the market. Explain to us just how much money you expect to be included at the expense of the agency from all these jobs and how these funds will be used, because it is unknown in this law, given the fact that such an agency has been established.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5874	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5875	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we've been discussing this for a long time, and we're only on the 19th, and, behold, we're still talking about the agency, we haven't even touched the drugs. One of the formal grudges of this law is that it resembles one law on agencies. All the laws of European countries do not have in these introductory, initial parts this many stories about the agencies that exist in their countries. It starts with definitions everywhere, with medications, because the drug law is, but this law of ours wants to be a little original. In order not to warn me again, I ask the Minister how, in Article 19, will the issue of clinical examination permits and medical aids be discussed, and permission to be issued? I see. Article 6 states: "Issuing authorisations for clinical trials of medicinal products and medical medicinal products and conducting control of the conduct of clinical trials". I'm asking how he's gonna do it, except for the inspection. Am I saying this right now, Mr. Minister? On the basis of which you will charge and on which you will give the permits, and you will follow the clinical trials. Isn't that an inspection job, and then, if what I'm saying is true, this could have been removed from the administration, because in some other cases you've been saying that we respect our law, that the agency can't be out of control.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5876	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5877	I didn't want to report to the minister's replica for a moment, but I really think, if it's preclinical studies, it's probably being conducted on biological material, on tiny animals. We're not gonna be taking medetapa in production, so if there are ten components, inorganic, organic, while a cure is being made, each on animals, a final cure. If that's different, then even those who wrote to us, and I'm in error and okay, I wouldn't realize that I could use a drug that wasn't previously, as a finished, as a definitive substance without additives and corrections, tested on an animal rather than some kind of interphase. But, well, it's possible we don't know technology until the end. Those who do so have passed it on to us. Probably people know what they're writing. Now, about this -- what kind of money vacuum cleaner agency is. It's amazing who he could have, except for G17, to figure it out. Whether they're the first idea creator of the agency or the Democratic Party, I have no idea, but this is amazing. See point 7), what a game of words: "Issuing an opinion with an assessment of the documentation for obtaining permits". So, you have to pay for it, to read your paperwork, assess whether it's okay, so based on it, it gives you permission. It's like Robin Hood, it's like VAT on VAT: take, take, take. When he takes your license, I guess he reads all the paperwork, so he does. Now that he's reading it, when he signs it, the pattern, he collects it for you. It really doesn't make sense! It's really excessive, whoever's the researcher, and of course, most often it's supposed to be home-made houses. I don't protect a lot of them either, and they know that they're often unfair in each other's relations and that they find weak points in production, production, traffic, etc. I'm not that painful to all of them. Let's take another-- clinical trials. The client, in order to do this, how complicated the game is, must report to the agency that he will do it, to pay for the act, to request the agency to do it, so that when he gets permission, then he has to go through a variety of institutions, so the agency or officially will be able to follow him, and he has one of the views that says: a proposing clinical trial can ask the agency to monitor the course of clinical trials. So if you're looking for it, he's going to pay it extra, and then, the proposer of a clinical trial has to pay all the participants in the chain of examination, and probably most doctors, clinicians, those who make it, under who knows what kind of contract. Who's checking that contract, whether it's in the presence of the agency or not, we don't know that, but it's a multiple payment again. Now the crown of everything, if it's a drug that's imported, that's from a corporation, which is why the law and it's written, then that drug with the importer, when it gets an import licence and brings in a certificate of the quality of the drug, the autoage will declare that it has a befel, that it has paper, that it has credibility and validity. It won't have to go through, because it'll come from some reference house that it's actually done, while the domestic drug manufacturer, if he goes into this whole game of clinical trials and a series of stage payments, will go worse than this VAT tax, which a man from the same party invented. It's constantly on the stage, you're creating some new value, and you're creating all the paperwork. Why, if it's going to stay and it's going to stay, because you're going to vote it out -- go ahead, cut at least one of the items you're going to charge, because that's going to make the cure cheaper. Well, what you charge them goes at the cost of the cure. That's what you pay out of the budget afterwards. It's just a game of words. Only the agency gets rich. We don't even know how he's going to make a decision, whether by his administrative act, he's going to pay the director of the agency. Who's gonna make him pay? What do you think if it's like "Profit"? Like in Ljubljana, what "Elanna" did. They brought the factory to a very high level, by contract they made a commitment that if it worked so well, so much and so much money, three million euros each. Imagine that. It hit Slovenia a year or two ago, so two executives could get that kind of money! What if the director of the agency says, "If I'm a profitable businessman, that's how much profit I'm in." It's just that they're sums. I'm going wide. But whenever we talk about it, we have the right to think it's going to be one way or another. It's possible that it's not all going to be so elaborated and led to absurdity, but this is one example that too many items, if the law remains, are charged. Read documentation, watch - 120 employees, how many expert commissions, how many independent experts, how many committees. Well, isn't there anyone who can read it, so when he collects it, he doesn't really peel off the skin. Let him charge by betraying his credentials. He'll say no. Now what if he refuses, let's see it? It's not good! He read the papers, turned him down, charged him. Is that the same tariff if he confesses? Is it going to diminish what he's going to say -- you're doing great paperwork, here's your confidence for nothing. And from a few details, you might be able to find it, save it. No one has much money to pour into the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5878	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5879	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the text of Article 22 so that you can understand the intention and purpose of the amendment more easily. Article 22 reads: "Gallen drug is made in a galenical pharmacy laboratory according to valid pharmacies or valid master formulas and is intended for issue or sale to patients - users and pharmacies". I stress that - "these pharmacies", precisely to understand why the amendment was submitted, which reads: "Gallen drug is a medicine made in a galenical laboratory according to valid pharmacopoeias or valid master formulas." What exactly do I want to point to this amendment? The law writer tries to put gallenical drugs in a group of drugs being made in a certain pharmacy and sold only in that pharmacy. It doesn't say anything. These aren't gallenical drugs. Galenski drug has its own formula, it's in the pharmacopoeia and it's known how it's made. The text writer is trying to avoid the existence of gallenical laboratories. What does that mean? What are the intentions? The intention is only to give certain pharmacies the opportunity to produce gallenic medicine. And to shut down all the galena labs that exist today. And there's a galenical lab if it's equipped with certain equipment, if it has certain personnel and if it's legally producing this gallenian drug. Therefore, it tries to use this article and by refusing this amendment to create a monopoly in certain pharmacies and correctly writes -- certain pharmacies that will be authorised by the agency, so that they can work and make gallenic medicines. Why does the legislator do that? Why are we shutting down the galena lab? When she is both professional and equipped, she will always be far more professional and far better able to do and make a Galen medicine than some pharmacy, which, along with the construction of a gallenic medicine, works other jobs, sells finished drugs, etc. The explanation for which the amendment is rejected reads as follows: "Amendment is not accepted since it is contrary to the very definition of galenic medicine that has been adopted in the European Regulation". That's not true. There's no definition of gallenical medicine anywhere -- that it's a drug that's made in some drugstore for which the agency gives permission, and in the other one doesn't. You know what a gallenian cure is. But what he says next, if we allowed the existence of the galena labs that exist today, then what would happen? In their opinion, that is, "the use of gallenic drugs could be misused, that is, a more favourable situation in the production of gallenic drugs compared to industrially prepared medicines". Well, why does someone have a problem with competition? Why does someone bother that in some galenical lab people produce quality galenic drugs and just deal with it. This is about tight work so one lab can do it. What difference does it make if they're more quality and cheaper than any industrial drug? What's the point? Therefore, if this amendment were accepted, it would first, in a way, eliminate the possibility of abuse, the possibility of what we are fighting here all the time, "that this agency gives those permits to whoever it wants". Because he precisely determines that the agency will only give "the" pharmacies and only "these" pharmacies will be able to make it, only those pharmacies that they want and that are theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5880	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5881	I don't understand why an amendment to Article 24 isn't accepted when it comes to a purely stylish matter. Look at this sentence under point 1) where it says this: "Blood medicine produced from human or animal blood." Well, I asked for "blood" to be wiped out and it says "medicine produced from human or animal blood." If a fifth grade high school student wrote "blood" twice in five words, he'd probably get a unit and should sit down. But it's not going to be a problem here, and let it repeat itself twice. They reject it, and the argument goes again: "Amendment is not accepted in view of the EU Directive". Well, this is a stylish thing. This is something that's a matter of sentence. What does the European Union Directive have to do with it, because the European Union really wants to use the term "blood medicine", if you have translated it well, "which defines the species". Perhaps you could, if you wanted to keep the "blood medicine" to leave it, but then there is no part of the sentence "blood medicine produced from blood" but to stand "a cure from blood produced from human or animal origin". Well, at least as much as written as this law looks, if you want to call on some stories about the European Union, and that reminds me of when little children say "you have to do it because Mom said it". Whether Mom said it or not, nobody knows it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5882	Thank you. I want to ask the public, Minister, do you stay here and not accept the amendment? Yeah. I thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5883	There's one principle question here, in this section of the drug law. This is where everything gets into medicine. Now we get some new categories -- homeopathic medicine, traditional medicine. Well, that's what I wanted to distinguish: what is a traditional medicine and why put it in medicine. These were once herbal preparations or auxiliaries, and now homeopathics and herbal preparations are all stuffing into drugs. The point of the amendment is, I think, that it should still be separated, because the cure should be a tool based on scientific principles. This is about traditional medicines that are the expression of tradition or some traditional therapeutic approaches. We don't have that important element of scientific principle here. Therefore, essentially, this amendment can only point to one different approach when it comes to the whole area. Something that's tradition, something that's a scientific principle in the production of a ready-made drug, should be separated. This is where you put it all in one basket. It is eloquently explained that it will be separated through sublaws, I hope, but perhaps even in the law it should not be treated in such a way, especially homeopathic means, which in no way could be on any scientific basis, because it does not represent the possibility to come into a group of medicines, because we know that all are not homeopathic means, such as marijuana and caustic soda and all sorts of stupidities, only at a very low concentration, and then it is thought that the poison at a small concentration can serve as some medicinal product. It's now something that doesn't have scientific access and isn't accepted by us as science and it wouldn't be good if such funds were put into one drug law and medical means.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5884	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Health Committee and the family are proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5885	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am now seeing the amendment, on the very principle since we worked together in the Committee, and there is no SPS representative, and I am taking the liberty of representing the views of Committee member Mrs. Živodarka Dacin. Dragon Jova said, "My children, keep your tongue." This legislator doesn't want that. Namely, it insists here that the law continues to contain English marks in Serbian for certain terms of the law. Please, colleague Dacin just wanted it to be done to stand the Serbian marks, the Serbian letters that can be seen here, because how all other normally arranged countries do. For example, let me tell you, look at the German law, look at the Croatian law, look at the Slovenian law. This explanation you've given is really funny. If the law is national, it must also have national features. Of course, you say it would be recognized in traffic with strangers, not strangers who wrote this law, that's what you should have. They, your translators, didn't finish that job. If Mr. Ola Wesby, in Norwegian law, does not mind that in Norwegian, which is quite difficult, these marks stand, let the Serbs also allow these marks to be marked in their letters in Serbian law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5886	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5887	Thank you, Mr. President. Galenski drug and Galenska laboratory and transitional deadline include Galenski drug for those who do not deal with pharmaceuticals. It should be explained that it's a prescription medicine. It's made in a Galenian laboratory, which, according to current regulations, exists on its own, so it's possible that you can make Galenski drug so much that you sell it theoretically throughout the country. Then you are, in fact, a producer by one orderly system. The aim of these regulations is therefore to edit the system. In the transitional phase of the first two years, the Galen Labs must decide whether to be the Galen Labs with a contract for a certain pharmacy that will sell their medicine or be produced. Of course, not everyone can get a license to manufacture, nor for Galenska, are strict standards for issuing permits. As far as termology is concerned: traditional medicine, homeopathic medicine, blood medicine are terms that are recognizable and which determine exactly what the cure is; after these regulations in the next few months you will no longer be able to watch TV advertising something that is actually a cure, which is usually happening in today's practice. Why he's talking about it again, agency or management. I think it's worth saying at the end of today that the agency is important because, first of all, it is a professional institution, highly professional with complex activities, and they touch medicine and veterinary, not just an administrative body. I tried to explain to you that there are a lot of mechanisms, control by the government, including a famous competition for the director. Otherwise, the truth of the will, health competitions were abolished just in the 1990s, when then governments seduced a system in which there is no competition to elect a director, but someone knows that they are the best people, who, once they come, never have to move again, because there are no procedures for change. And with the story of abbreviations - first of all, the mother tongue explains the terms, and the abbreviations serve as reference information. GMP abbreviations for Good Manufacturing Practice, otherwise it means something, now I'm going to remind you, back to the 1990s. In the early 1990s, Tolak was one of a dozen institutions in the world that could make a vaccine and sell it around the world. In the 1990s, he lost his certification because he didn't have a good GMP manufacturing practice. Today you can't sell vaccines everywhere in the world because the World Health Organization says - we must first recognize the GMP procedure in "Torlak", and in order to recognize our GMP inspection should come and see what production is, do you have recognizable legislation and recognizable institutions. I am convinced by this many stories that in most MPs they will prevail primarily on reason and constructiveity. It is about forming an important institution for Serbian citizens. Institutions that, as a medicine agency and medical resources, need to represent a top national body, which is professionally, which takes great responsibility on its part to carry out professional affairs in the best possible way. I'll tell you that for the last two years, the Ministry of Health has been organising very persistent and careful education of future inspectors, pharmacists who will be able to apply to get a job at that agency. I'm sure you'll understand that this agency will serve everyone honorably. The citizens are watching us, they'll know that they're assessing how many of the discussions there were against them, that they would eventually be against them, and again against them, that they would be against them again. I am convinced that they will recognize good will and constructiveity in most discussions today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-20-0.u5888	There's no one else on this amendment. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 107 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragan Vuksanovic, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Dusan Mrvos, Sava Urošević, Goran Pavnović, Meho Omerović, Milovan Markovic, Goran Knezevic, Slobodan Vuković, Bosko Ristic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND MEDICINAL PRODUCTS (details) To Article 28 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljković. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
