ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not want to go into harsh political conflicts with the prime minister, I will enter conflict with the Prime Minister when he is elected. But something from yesterday's second announcement by the prime minister for the government's composition prompted me, because it could be insulting to the public about one position of the Serbian Radical Party, which the prime minister has the right to interpret in his own way, but does not answer the truth. In your notes, you have on page 27/5 and 28/1 what the prime minister said: "Serbia and Montenegro, and the state union; I fear that there are representatives of the Serbian radical old woman in some way in conflict with themselves. Just as they firmly advocated the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, perhaps more in Serbia than the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, I think they have easily released down the water of Montenegro, starting with something they called the ruling separatism in Montenegro, and in this respect they have advocated the speedy launch of the referendum." Montenegrin citizens know the Serbian Radical Party's stance on the state union, as it is officially called, not the state community. I have to say that again here, so the prime minister knows, when he makes moves, what he can count on from the Serbian Radical Party. So we defended the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, under which it was not possible to secede one federal unit without the consent of another federal unit. And then we were accused of all of you, who were not in the Serbian government then, that we were ready to challenge war, to form a special battalion of the Yugoslav Army in Montenegro, that already the military at the military part of the Podgorica airport had tried its strength and that, in fact, we want to prevent the young democratic reform authority in Montenegro from dealing with politics and that its Montenegro is leading, as is the will of most Serbian citizens. Then today's prime minister and his political party came to the Constitutional Charter, under which the secession is entirely possible. What was not possible under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was hit by the majority in the congregations. We now have the Constitutional Charter that you so soulfully defend, and according to it it is possible for Montenegro to secede. It is not my desire to separate Serbia and Montenegro. It's the last thing I want in life. Of course, I'm not ready to war, nor are we against Montenegro, nor is it that, God forbid, there is war in Montenegro, if there is secession, and you know what could be if it were to happen. So, I'd like to spend most of our time in the community, make that community a minimum Federation. We live in someone now, you say, a state community. The leadership of Montenegro, with which you made it, calls it a community of states. We live in something together now. If that is a minimum, I only ask that Serbia-Montenegro participate honestly. I repeat, the situation is more unsustainable. Montenegro's leadership is constantly threatening secession. Based on that threat, blackmail is created. (President:Time. Here, I'm done, but don't forget, I was quoting, so count me in. On this basis, do not conclude that the Serbian Radical Party is running down the water of Montenegro. That's not my wish at all. I just want everything to be clean in the country we live in, so no one's being blackmailed. So I propose to the prime minister, and to all of you who are attending the session of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly on Friday, to agree before that session, and what are we going to do there? First, let's see who's calling us there, why is he calling us, and secondly, what are we going to do as a Serbian delegation, what are we going to represent there? If you want the position of the Serbian Radical Party, we will represent the view that the minimum must be maintained and strengthened. But let's get rid of the ruling structure in Montenegro. I can't stand it when someone's threatening me, not as big as anyone I threaten, not as much as I let a kid threaten me. That's probably what you saw here in the Serbian Parliament for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u966	Please bring the end, you've used six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u967	I'm sorry, I don't want to apologize anymore, I won't answer again. If they are really small, if they want their own path, do not expect the Serbian Radical Party to declare: we will prevent them from seceding. No, we won't stop them by any gesture. We want to help you build a good country in which Serbia-Montenegro will be, but don't accuse us of wanting Serbia-Montenegro to split up. It hurts so much. That's why I've been taking a little time. Remind me, I've got three thousand dinars, I'll give it to you. I've given you hundreds of thousands of dinars based on fines, I can do these three.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u968	You could've done it without warning, for human purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u969	Now, my Mr. Martian, it's humanely what I give out of my pocket and purpose for humanitarian purposes, and what you take away from my children from my salary, so you give someone a humanitarian purpose (I've listened to those unarticulated screams before in the Serbian Parliament), I've never heard of a world case that someone has been humanitarianally aiding by taking his money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u970	The People's Messenger Milos Jevtic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u971	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in every democratic country, the government programme follows from the election programme of the political group that received majority support from citizens in the parliamentary elections. It is a matter of political tradition or political culture whether the coalition or political group will form as pre-election or post-election, but in both cases the basis for such a coalition or a political group should certainly be the same programme principles, programming principles or certain values that these parties advocate. It is in some sense a guarantee that a pan of the coalition, as the ruling one, will follow these values and in any case be consistent in implementing a particular policy, and also a certain guarantee that a single government could last a whole term or four years. Then, it is no accident that the process of forming a new Serbian government is inappropriately long and at this point lasts longer than two months, precisely because the parties that are supposed to form that government almost lack that much in common, even when it comes to state planning. In this party's conglomerate, you have a national orientation party that is in principle advocating to preserve the state union, you have a party that, regardless of its signature on the Belgrade Agreement, explicitly claims to be for independent Serbia. You have, then, at least two parties that are for the monarchy and ultimately the party whose list bearer in the last elections was Slobodan Milosevic, and in this sense ceases a certain continuity in relation to the policy that Milosevic led for a little over a decade in Serbia. It is absolutely doubtless that Serbia needs a government at the moment and that Serbian citizens want the government to be formed. What Serbia doesn't have at the moment, it's certainly time. Time in Serbia today is the most important and is the most critical resource, so any waste of time for Serbia could be devastating. That is why the citizens of Serbia also perceived in general that the time spent to create this government could exceed the time of its duration. As for the exposé of the future prime minister of government, one of the key places is certainly Serbia's state status, both the survival of the state union, the position of Serbia within the state union and the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and ultimately Serbia's international position. When it comes to the preservation of the state union, I think it will be a pretty big problem for this coalition, because I don't see how a joint solution could be found with the party in the coalition, which advocates Serbia's independence. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, I am convinced that the solution to this problem, which is very important for Serbia and one of the priorities at the moment, will depend on the international position and credibility of the new government, which are rather at stake with the SPS. With regard to the very structure of this government, I believe that the political principle has won the championship in relation to the principle of efficiency and functionality, above all, because of the existence of only one vice president, who will be in charge of the so-called "major". The financial departments. The reasons for rationality and savings in this case do not stand, for the simple reason that one vice president has a cabinet that does not count more than 10 members of the administration. So, 10 employees, and given that one average ministry, with all its accompanying services, has an average of between 500 and 600 employees, that reason really does not stand. On the other hand, the existence of a larger number of vice-presidents, which would primarily co-ordinate those ministries that are in related action, can greatly contribute to the efficiency of the government itself. Also, as far as rationalisation itself is concerned, nothing epochal has been done, as the number of ministries from the existing 19 has been reduced to 17, while togethering of those ministries that do not have almost any similarities. For this, the best example is the ministry provided for in Article 10. The Ministry Act, which is so-called The Ministry of Capital Investment, which includes the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Telecommunications, then the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction. The logical question arises, why didn't the ministry find places and the Ministry of Energy, because it's also an area of capital investment, so that you really find some super minister who would do the job. As far as the Ministry of Economy is concerned, the work of this ministry is almost prescribed as a member of the 8th old ministry law, except in the very name it is deleted – privatisation. I think it's wrong because privatisation, or the process of transforming society into private property, is actually one of the most important jobs, the biggest challenges and the temptations of a transition government. In the past, this ministry, indeed through its personal solutions and through its chosen privatisation model, has achieved the best results not only in comparison with the countries in our region, but also in Hungary, which has so far been a paradigm or an example of well-executed privatisation. The only reason for erasing the word "privatisation" from the ministry could be found in ideological initiatives of the SPS, which at the moment much prefers social property rather than private property. In general, in the economic part of the government's programme, I believe that there is one major discrepancy between the intention of reducing taxes on certain products, and that this relaxes the economy in terms of increasing the competitiveness of domestic producers, and on the other hand, to increase the social benefits that the next government will have. At this point, around 219,370 employees are financed from the Republika Srpska budget. That's what 59 billion dollars and 861 million dinars are for each year. This should also indicate that at the time Zoran Djindjic formed the government three years ago, about 500,000 workers were paroled in Serbia. It worked in enterprises that were permanently inequitable. If the social policy by companies, which is currently being implemented, is being transferred to the government and if the government gives such social contributions, taking into account the reduction of taxes on certain products, we could come into a situation to create a terrible budget deficit, which by these figures could move up to 100 billion dinars a year, and this is unacceptable for Serbia, for reasons of general macroeconomic stability, and also for the stability of the dinars that we need at this point. The next ministry I want to comment on is the Ministry of Education and Sports. I believe that youth and sports in Serbia certainly deserve their special ministry and an argument that the previous government did not foresee this ministry does not actually stand. At the moment Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government was established, she had a situation that at the federal level there was a resolute ministry about sports and later the federal Sports Secretariat. At this point, such jurisdiction is not foreseen by the Constitutional Charter at the level of the state community and I think that youth and sport certainly deserve their special ministry. As far as the diaspora ministry is concerned, it is a completely undeniable intention to form such a ministry and actually bring the ministry closer to Serbia, not only through an electoral law that will allow the representatives of the diaspora to vote, but also through the possibility to transfer the knowledge of a large number of young people living abroad, who are highly educated and to allow civil service of military time in diplomatic and consular representations. So that intention is completely undeniable. There are some shortcomings in the electoral law that will call into question the technical enforceability of the law, and therefore a larger number of representatives of the diaspora will not be able to vote, which significantly undermines equality in the exercise of electoral rights. In the end, given at least the moral continuity compared to the government of Slobodan Milosevic, you could also see loans for Serbia's rebirth or possibly old foreign savings in the ministry's work. Finally, I end up finding that this is the government of large antagonisms, while at the same time having a modest potential and quite undefined duration, but because of the interests of Serbian citizens, I believe that this government should retain certain guidelines that existed in the previous period and which have been established in the last three years, which are, above all, the way to Euro-Atlantic integration, joining the European Union, joining the Partnership for Peace. To remind me, Serbia is the only country in the environment that does not have a assembly declaration that tangs this problem; then the economy, primarily focused on market principles; the principle of resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues; and ultimately, Serbia's survival within the state union of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u972	The People's MP Ivan Zivadinovic has the word, followed by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u973	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my name is Ivan Zivadinović, I am a G17 plus MP from Užica. In my first address to the Assembly, I would like to comment on something that one respected fellow MP yesterday spoke about Snezana Plassic, MEP G17 plus from Leskovec. This colleague gave her moral sermons on the work of the G17 Plus Municipal Committee in Leskovec, and that colleague has no morals, as he has spoken of several immoral things in the last 20 days. He allowed himself to comment on the retirement of Mladjan Dinkic, an immovable woman who is 90 years old. He allowed himself to hold moral sermons to a high moral person named Snezana Plavisic and comment on the work of Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, former and future. In addition, a colleague is a doctor and has not worked for a single day in his profession. I suggest that my colleagues take the headphones, the pressure meter, and go to the curator's area, where there are 15 to 20% illiterate people, do free medical examinations for them, like the G17 plus members did, and that's what the health care team people do. As many as 35,000 members of the G17 plus entered the pre-election campaign with this program. A new programme for the new government found a complete plan of all ministries' activities. Serbian citizens recognized the idea and understood our sincere intentions. Thanks to the confidence of half a million Serbian citizens who voted for us, G17 plus has become the third-in-a-kind political party in parliament. G17 Plus wants Serbia to become a strong and democratic state, capable of being a leader in the Balkans, to accept all European standards, but also to preserve and protect what is best in our tradition and culture. It's hard to be a leader. It's only people who recognize the problem and know the solution, but have enough courage to stay on track regardless of the challenges. The path for this government is the European Union's path, and the biggest challenge will be the financial field. Serbian citizens believe that the finance ministry, under the control of Mladjan Dinkic, will run a financial policy that will provide them with security. Our goal is a better life, and a lot of things need to be done to achieve it. Inflation of inflation is required at 3% to 4% a year, the elimination of taxes on financial transactions, the elimination of income tax on agricultural activity, the elimination of taxes on use and the keeping of vehicles and, of course, something that will cheer 60% of Serbian citizens, the abolition of taxes on mobile phones. The reduction of total salary taxes will stimulate the reporting and employment of new workers, which is necessary for a country with nearly a million unemployed citizens. The finance ministry programme will especially cheer citizens without apartments, as this ministry will propose the establishment of a national housing insurance corporation, which will allow mortgage lending in Serbia. This will be a momentum for the construction industry and will cheer up 60,000 households or 250,000 Serbian citizens who now live as tenants. We at G17 plus are able to keep our pre-election promises. By our knowledge, but also our cheeks, we will guarantee the quality of work in our ministries. The government will have many trials, but will not deviate from reforms and entry into the European Union, because only as members of the European Union can Serbia realise the previous dream that all Serbs, all Hungarians, all Albanians, all Bosniaks live in one country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u974	This is called flexible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u975	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is truly amazing that the G17 is due with a few days of delay. First of all, I was talking about Mr. Dinkic and his grandmother, who has 36,000 dinar pensions without working anywhere. You didn't deny those allegations I made at the pay phone. Yesterday, Mrs Plassic listened to what I was saying and she could deny it, but apparently she had no arguments to say anything against it. I finished medical school in time, I literally gave all my exams in the first exam period with an average of 8.73 and I worked for two years, but precisely because of those people who run the health center, I didn't get a job permanently. That's why the state remembered, when there was a war in Kosovo and Metohija, that I was the first to be a doctor all the time in Kosovo and Metohija in the Kachikola area and that and how I use not only headphones, but also sew surgical wounds, even though I'm not a surgeon but an intern in the profession. That tells you enough about who the authority is. What authority I am is enough that, at the age of 39, I was a federal minister in the federal government, twice a MP and president of the Leskovac City Assembly, where you have no councilor, nor will you ever have him in the municipality of Leskovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u976	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u977	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't report for the replica yesterday. Yesterday I mentioned that G17 is happy to discuss with all political opponents who have arguments and clear reasons. However, it is very difficult to respond to a discussion that is logically inconsistencies and linguistically incorrect. You've got a little trouble understanding her. Since I was called for the second time, I must say that last night I was thinking that it was a little awkward, that I could bring Mr Cvetanović into an awkward position by discussing morality, since this is the category my profession has been working on, and I've been working on my profession for 18 years, unlike Mr Cvetanović, who has not worked in the profession. What else do you say? The mention in this 90-year-old parliament of a woman who is immobilized is immoral and unreasonable in itself. Even if she's an actor of some political events, when she's someone's grandmother, then it's a blow to one of the basics of Serbian tradition, which is family. I'd like to ask you to spare our families our discussions in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u978	There's no replica on the replica. You've been called in your line, and you say you're a ten-year MP, and then you know there's no replica on the line. Can we get serious into today's session? If you're all saying you know what the situation is in Serbia, then I don't know why you're so excited about sitting down. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, and after that, MP Zivorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a pleasure for us Serbian radicals to see the students of the Law School following yesterday's and today's meetings at the gallery. It is the students' place at the gallery, and I would like to welcome them on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, because so far their posts have been taken up by various resistances, various NGOs, mostly anti-Serbian organisations or NGOs (Enji o), as you beat them in the previous term. It seems to be the only pleasure we Serbian Radical Party MPs and Serbian citizens have today. As far as the mandater's exposure is concerned, it certainly is not and can't cause pleasure, neither us Serbian radicals nor the citizens of Serbia. Although the exposé of the prime minister may be long and much discussed, because I belong to the parliamentary group, the strongest parliamentary group in this assembly, time is limited, and only for the discussion of this exhibition have more MPs from my parliamentary group than three-quarters of the parliamentary groups have a total of MPs, I will have to cut short. I hope after me everyone who answers will say what I haven't been able to say. A few reasons why you don't need to accept the mayor's exposés. The first is that the prime minister again underlines the strange, and not to say some slightly more difficult qualification, the idea of regionalization through so-called. The cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija; thus the Serbs who will not enter the cantons literally shut into the ghetto and leave at the mercy of the Shiptar terrorists, and that there in the Shiptar environment they achieve their cultural, personal, etc. Autonomy. I will not talk about those villages that will remain outside those Serb enclaves after what the prime minister told us yesterday. I will not speak of properties in either Kosovo or Metohija, and probably all MPs know that the Metohija is derived from the words of the Metoh, meaning the monastery's estate, the monastery's property, the monastery's property. I only ask the prime minister, which monasteries, which churches, which parts of Serbian cultural heritage will leave outside of these Serb enclaves, otherwise the canton, as he calls them. Do you think you'll leave the Zoo, do you think you'll leave the Decade, do you think to leave the Mother of the Left, who has authorized you to leave three monks there in the Mother of the Left to achieve personal and cultural autonomy? Do you think the Shiptari will keep us this centuries-old liquid? You are not talking about the obligations of others arising from Resolution 1244, do not talk about the obligations of the international community, which would primarily bring the army and police back in a limited number and keep the Serbs there. Secondly, the term of office, and so declaratively speaking, speaks of relations within the state community, and hardly at all about the activities of the future government to strengthen unity in it. In addition, how will half the parties from his coalition advocate breaking the very community. Thirdly, as the prime minister thinks he's leading the fight against organised crime, against abuse in privatisation and against all the negative things that have been going on in Serbia today, when financial policy or, what the people would say, both the bag and the cash register are being held by people, and above all, I mean Dinkic, people who are already known to be in an affair around the National Savings Bank, up to their necks. I mean capital when they formed the National Savings Bank, and we all thought the National Savings Bank was a state bank, until they finally explained to us that it was a stock company, with very suspicious capital. I am referring to Hamovic's capital, and the affair has already been discovered that Hamovic and Lazarevic only this year robbed the EPS or the state of Serbia through their EFTA company for about $150m. This will be determined very quickly by the Assembly's polling committee, and I hope that the judicial and other authorities will have something to do. Is this the same Hamovic who is in his own time, giving through his famous Tras Bank credit to the Shipyard worth 2.4% of the capital of Belgrade Shipyard, and with various mathematical gymnastics has reached 92% of the Shipyard. Look at the wonders, the assessment of the Shipyard's capital for a company called "Deloj and shower" and the project holder of the current minister Vlahovic. Therefore, there will be a lot of judicial and other competent authorities to discuss. One more thing that can't possibly be interpreted as clever, which is the issue of The Hague. Instead of opening all state archives, instead of helping the Hague indictees, instead of preparing all relevant documents and giving the Hague indictees to defend themselves - because, gentlemen, there is no trial for Slobodan Milosevic, nor Milan Milutinovic, nor Vojislav Seselj, the mandate says they will make a deal with the court in The Hague that they serve their sentences here. Does this mean that tomorrow you will bring these indictees to serve in the Fireman, in Zabela, to serve in Mitrovica those penalties that others have cut off from them? In doing so, you are making one big mistake, because if, God forbid, Slobodan Milosevic condemns The Hague tribunal and he comes to Pogorjevac, he would have angered your coalition partners at the moment. Neither the names proposed for ministerial portfolios nor chairs guarantee professionalism nor interest in solving problems, and even less for honesty and fair relations. Serbia is waiting for another lost period, and I hope for several months, and until the next parliamentary elections, because for a long time you will not be able to endure it. In the end, I'd like to finish with one sentence that all of you, both of you from the DSS and you from DOS, have used and which is most appropriate at this point: you're much the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u980	The People's MP, Živorad Smiljanić, has the word, and after that, the MP of the people, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u981	Dear MPs, in the opening statement of candidates for Prime Minister, we heard that privatisation should be fair, efficient, in favour of small shareholders and not at the expense of the state. The privatisation conducted by the DOS was neither fair nor just and least effective. So 80% of the companies that are privatised today don't work or barely work, and the privatisation that took place was (80% or 90%) transparent and non-transparent. So the privatisation was transparent, and the word transparent when translated into Serbian means transparent, and transparent means staged. I'll only tell two cases from my Apache how a transparent privatisation took place. Transparent means staged. Our city transport company, which had 50 trucks, which had workshops, business space and one gas station, a new one, sold for 300,000 euros. After a month, a new owner from Belgrade sold a gas station for 2.5m euros. When the state sells, and privatisation was, 70% belongs to the state, 30% to the workers, and then the starting price is 20% of the book value, and that's 2% to 3% or 5% to the highest market price. The second, even more transparent privatisation, set up, is the sale of the Podunov, a commercial company in the municipality of Apatin. This company did not have a single dinar of debt, it had 50 shops in Apatino, it had a store house of 5,500 m2, a warehouse space of 4,800 m2. Two companies reported on transparent privatisation: Delta Bank or Delta Company and the Apatian brewery. The apathic brewery gave up and then the company was sold for 28m or 450,000 euros. The store itself is worth about 7.5m euros. The man kept the department store, kept the warehouse space, and these stores didn't interest him, and he started selling. He has sold about a dozen stores in a short time. When the government sells it, it's 5% market value. When he sells his private, he sold it 1,000 euros a square meter. He earned half a store about two million euros. What happens after? The workers come and ask me, since I'm a doctor, Doctor, because ours is 30% and his 70%, he earned two million euros, if we have the right to take at least 600,000 euros. No, I don't. They have no right to do anything. They got the shares from the 30%, no one's allowed to ask. They ask why we don't object, how do we rebel when we get fired? So, I mean, the transparent privatisation was set up and sold out for nothing. Non-transparent privatisation was only when workers bought enterprises or when workers sold businesses. It's also just two examples to get you out of the Apatino municipality. Rapid, a construction firm, when it purchased 34% of its bid shares, which was non-transparent, of millions and 200 marks, rose to eight million marks. Another example, the brightest example, is the privatisation that we Socialists have had, which is a stock or stock privatisation, by which our brewery is privatized. It had 91% privatisation, when it was sold to Interbrou, 240m euros were paid. The privatisation of Niksic's brewery, also under the IMF dictatorship, was conducted by the government of Montenegro and sold for 12.5m euros. Only workers when they sell, then they achieve a market economy. When we entered the Federal Parliament in 2000, I was present at a break when Micunović Nikola Sainovic told - we are grateful to the Socialists, and now we are going to sell it all. It's all sold. This privatisation was a simple kidnapping, the passing of huge social and national treasures into private pockets. And as it turns into private pockets, this privatisation tells you, that a man buys 300,000 euros and only a part sells for just 2.5m euros. Or our Podunavlje is bought for 450,000 euros, which is worth 15m euros. So this privatisation impoverished the citizens of Serbia. She is effective, but she's unfair. National treasure and social property has been translated into private pockets and it is capitalism liberal, which we introduce efficiently, because a labour law has previously been adopted in which workers have no rights, so when they rebel in private companies, they immediately get fired, the first union leader. We have an even more efficient system, and it's feudal. The boss can fire the workers here. In the feudal age, they might as well kill him. Therefore, the work that takes place in this way is fear-based work, not on the basis of an economy or something that would stimulate it. I'm sorry I don't have time, but of course I'd like to give you a lot of examples of unfair privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u982	The word is made by MP Miroslav Martic, and then by MP Nevena Karanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u983	My fellow Members, here is my obligation and responsibility to speak directly behind my young colleague from G17, who, as far as I can see, is not here and who was inspired and semi-revolutionally speaking about both the G17 programme and the mandater's exposé, so it might be good to hear the counterarguments as well. Otherwise, I come from the city, one of the few major cities, where the DSS stayed all the time in the local government. The DS colleagues know this, although the local government could function without DSS committees, and not only with DSS committees, but the local government has functioned all the time and will function until the next election. So in Uzic, we did not allow political conflicts or political considerations between our political options to be transferred to the local level, all because, above all, we took care of the citizens and the local problems we sought to solve and not deal with political conflicts. I'm saying this for the reason that you don't consider this discussion as some kind of political marketing, but rather a contribution to hearing some remarks on both the exposés and the concept of government being adopted. Respecting the prime minister's institution and in some way respecting the prime minister's candidate, I must express great doubt in the way the future government was formed, and in certain parts of the exposé that the prime minister made in the opening statement. But before that, only a few comments on the draft ministry law. Basically, what was heard here when these remarks were highlighted and what is far more important, and that is no matter what the concept of these miniatures is, that the government is showing that it works very well is much less important this technical solution, than how the government is going to work and what the results are going to show. But there are certain objections when the ministries are joined together, when they are difficult to connect, such as the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Labour or what some previously pointed out to me, which is the Ministry of Capital Investment, which in my opinion has united two or three significant ministries, the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, which is quite illogical. I say the most important thing is how this government will work, and less important is the concept of the government, what is the concept of the ministries. What is positive is that there are far fewer Deputy Prime Ministers, or only one Deputy Prime Minister and unlike the previous Government who had six or seven vice-presidents, it is clear that this was politically conditioned by the parties that were then with us in the coalition and this is one extenuating circumstance in the functioning of the future government. The concept of a minority government that has been proposed is quite clear that things are not good by nature, it is insecure and a government that very often has to compromise because the government is made up of political groups of different political definitions, different ideological definitions, different programmes, and even more because they have support from the SPS. This is where we heard, from both SPS representatives and DSS representatives, that they had no interest in this support. If we weren't fooling ourselves, there's almost nothing in politics that's done out of love, it's mostly out of interest. If they didn't ask you for anything now, it doesn't mean they won't ask you, or if they don't ask you now, it doesn't mean they won't ask for anything in the next period. It was certainly their interest not to organise and discuss reelection, where they would probably be worse off. Another significant moment is that in one way or another, they have been returned to political life, thanks to the future prime minister, or party of this ruling coalition, who supported them in forming a minority government. If they don't have any interest in all this, we'll see in a few months. After all, we have seen here that the MPs of the SPS have supported this government more fire and spiritedly than the DSS MPs. When I listened to Mr. Angelkovic's current vice president yesterday, I felt he was more supportive and spoke with more praise about the future prime minister than he ever did or spoke about his party president Slobodan Milosevic. In his exposé, the prime minister, above all, pointed out the rule of law and the rule of law. This is nothing controversial, and I hope that all parties or most parties, as well as most MPs, are pushing for one legal and well-organised country. But if it stands for the rule of law, it cannot stand for the rule of law only within this country. It must be advocated by the rule of law and international relations. It must be advocated to respect some international commitments. You can't be legal when it comes to your country without being legal when it comes to the international community. In particular, when it comes to The Hague, the prime minister also said that we would cooperate and that we would not cooperate with The Hague. The Hague is necessary, better it wasn't, better it wasn't there was a reason why it was formed, but the fact is that we took over international obligations and that any non-cooperation with The Hague could bring big and economic and political problems to this country. To claim that you're legal in your country alone, and you're not legal when it comes to international laws or regulations, I don't think there's much room for some legalism. Then, when he spoke about the rule of law and the rule of law, you know that yesterday was an observation, when the future prime minister proposed for Justice Zoran Stojkovic. Already today, the newspaper says, "The new justice minister has tried a group of dissidents." Let me just take a brief part of this text to read to you: "The accused of destroying socialism. During 1984, professors, who were kicked out of Belgrade's Philosophy Faculty, and a group of young liberals and intellectuals gathered in private apartments and discussed various social topics. Among the professors who organised the sessions were Mihajlo Markovic, Zagorka Golubović, Nebojsa Popov, Miladin Živić, Dragoljub Micunović, Trivo Indjic and others. The same year, 28 people were arrested in police action on April 20th, and the process was conducted during 1984 and 1985. The case against the "six" has been initiated, for jeopardizing self-government socialist arrangements. The trial led five members, and the president was Zoran Stojkovic," a gentleman who was proposed as justice minister. My lords, although he did so on official duty, I would like the Prime Minister here to say, although he may have the expertise necessary to be a minister, is it moral for such a man to be a future minister of justice in such well-organised Serbia, which Mr Kostunica advocates? Then, a few words about the economic part of the exposé. The prime minister said the budget will provide an additional part of the funding for agriculture, for reviving production, for greater social isolation, and on the other hand said the taxes would be reduced. I'd like to see what that budget will look like where the tax rates will be reduced in some way, and budget allocations will be increased. In privatisation, which you have had major objections to, the prime minister is not about the privatisation process itself or the privatisation programme itself, which will be applied much, which means that he was in principle in agreement with the way privatisation has been done so far, with the right of those who are now coming to Serbia's political scene to review the privatisation process and to determine whether there have been any irregularities in this privatisation process that has been realised. Otherwise, one of the biggest remarks we have heard here very often from DSS representatives, and even more than the SPS representatives, was that we left a large number of people out of work through the privatisation process, which is essentially not true. Gentlemen, these people who have lost their jobs have been left by our predecessors, left by the SPS, bought by social peace, but he hasn't told them that this large number of people has long been out of work and has no jobs. A large number of people were led as unemployed, led on paid leave and already several years ago they did not work. My lords, this government has only told them that they've long been out of work and that they've long lost their jobs. Finally, a few words about the ministry of capital investment, i.e. the future minister, my neighbour Velimir Ilic. Not to mention what he promised capital investment in Chačka, from the tobacco factory, the waste burning plant, the highway, the car factory. None of these capital investments were realised in Chačka. His explanation was either his reasons why he couldn't do it, mostly, that he was prevented by the government or he had problems with some of the current ministries. To ignore that, I think he will now, as future minister, have full authority and will be able to realise some of these capital investments related to Cacak, but also some that are related to Serbia. What's interesting is that these days information has appeared in the newspaper that Cacak is, except for Vojvodina, the city where the biggest debts for municipal services are. Is this the happy town where Velja Ilic introduced prosperity and whether he wants such a Serbia in which citizens will thus reconcile their obligations, communal and each other. After all, who was watching "Klopka", and I heard that many MPs were watching, saw one of his staff solutions that appeared in "Klopca", which is a certain Mr. Jovanovic, who is likely to be his replacement for traffic. My people, if you listened carefully and watched him, you saw that man had nothing to do with life, let alone traffic or any capital investment in the area of traffic. What Vela is going to be very difficult to explain, is that this government is relying on SPS support. The man who was most committed to driving the SPS out of the political scene, besides him and I went to Belgrade on October 5th, will likely have the biggest problem with his fellow imnomial citizens in Serbia to explain why he suddenly had such a fondness for the SPS. His basic explanation is that the SPS has changed. What's he changed into? What changed Angelkovic, Vukelic, Dacic, except they might have changed their suits? I know there are honorable men among the SPS MPs sitting here, as well as members of the SPS. To say that these leaders have changed into something, these same people who have been with Milosevic, there is no real explanation. When you listen to these evenings, Vucelic, who doesn't get off the TV screen, and when he starts telling you about the thefts and the only theft that happened in this parliament, and what they stole from the elections, both local and presidential, and what Serbia has been walking about for several months, comparing it with this theft, these are amazing structures. And finally, let me get this straight. As a political rival, I might want this concept of government to fail, but as someone who doesn't view it politically, because of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and because of our children, I want this government to function for a while and make some changes that the prime minister has made in the exposé. My lords, as you began to hug and kiss with those of the Socialist Party of Serbia, there is no doubt that this will come out well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u984	Thank you. Replica. Stevanovic, then Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u985	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in this room, there have been various comments from those who have understood the exposés, to those principled criticisms that have warned from this side and to the, indeed, non-principle criticism of the people of the current government. We've even heard from this new group of the Democratic Party, that they don't see employment, new jobs and that sort of thing in the exposé. So, the same ones who, I guess, had to explain, where the new 500,000 people on the street were asking where it was in the exposé. I expected to hear such remarks from this left old one – yellow, but not from the right one. On the other hand, I heard from another one in the new set: "It will judge what supports the SPS government of history and God". In fasting they mention God to those who believe in him and fast. We say, of course he'll judge history, but he'll judge and judge. So, gentlemen, expect the court to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u986	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic, replica, then Ivica Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u987	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been listening to you for a long time. Of course, I can listen to radicals. People say, talk, criticise, there's room for criticism. But, please, when I listen to the Democrats, when I listened to Mr. Martic, my bowels turned. Is that possible? People don't know what they're chosen for. I don't think Mr. Martic knows what he's supposed to do yet. When he figures out what to do, it'll be ten years. Don't worry about Chuck, don't worry about Serbia, you take care of yourself. You're doing something you know, and this, Mr. Maric, you don't know, and don't embarrass yourself anymore. You're talking nonsense here. We listen to people who still exercise power and criticize someone who hasn't exercised power in a minute. Is there room for such discussions? I guess Serbia does. You've ruined all this. You're telling me about the SPS. Yes, they did what they did and how they did it, but you were worse. Here, now you've been worse than them. We've seen something worse than that. Therefore, it is foolish to make this debate difficult, discussion. Let us do something. Give us some time, then caricate us, and we've seen you and there's really no point in wasting time with you anymore. It's time for you to leave as soon as possible. That's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u988	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u989	You know, when someone loves each other very much, they find it hard to break up like this. Vojislav Kostunica was your presidential candidate in 2000, not ours. Also, Miroslav Labus was your presidential candidate against Vojislav Kostunica and Vojislav Seselj. It seems to me that the main topic of this debate on the choice of government is the Socialist Party of Serbia. I thank you for that. It seems to me that no one has ever mentioned the Socialist Party to Serbia and its leadership again, but it has been these few days. I really thank you for that. I just asked Mr Tadic, did his assembly positively assess the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the previous one and the one currently in power? So, Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. He answered me yes. The government of Zoran Zivkovic, gentlemen, has ruled that there is no more extradition to The Hague tribunal under command responsibility. Then who put our country's international position at risk? Please, comrades and fellow Democrats, take care of it. You think you can make decisions like that before the elections, fool people, and then pretend like they don't exist. You made that decision. Dusan Mihajlovic and his party listed a general who was indicted before The Hague tribunal. Don't read to the Socialist Party of Serbia what most citizens of this country are for. At least be so honest, since you're obviously not very honest, even though it used to be your password. When you had the password, then we worked together, and that was when Slobodan Milosevic was not in The Hague, but in Belgrade and don't be ashamed of it, because we are not ashamed of co-operation with anyone in Serbia's interest. I just want to say one thing. Gentlemen, 400,000 fired workers happened from 2000 to 2003. You can, of course, say that everything is the result of what was in the last ten years before 2000. But once again, in September and December 2000, it was decided on the rule of the Socialist Party of Serbia for the past ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, or friends and fellow Democrats, 28. December was decided on your authority and you got as much as you got. We've got two MPs less than the Democratic Party. You have 24 MPs and we have 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u990	Watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u991	You received other votes thanks to Mr. Ugljanin, thanks to Mr. Svilanovic of the Civil Union, thanks to Zarko Korac and thanks to Mr. Micunović. I may have forgotten someone from these big political boulders, but anyway, that's it. (President: Time.) And in the end, I really ask Mr. Kostunica to end this agony and this crying of comrades and fellow Democrats. Take them to the government, please. Can't you see they're having a hard time getting hurt that they won't be in power anymore? It's hard to regret lost power. We know that well, and we are over those diseases. God forbid anyone survives in opposition what the Socialist Party of Serbia experienced in the opposition after October 5th, but we are still there. And where will be the comrades and comrades of the Democrats. That's why their great sadness is at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u992	Replica, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u993	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not good to make a joke out of the Republic Parliament and it's not good to get high, the situation is more than serious and it needs to be faced with the real problems of this society. There is no democratic party intent whatsoever, Mr Dacic, to enter into a political relationship created by the SP-NS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS parties. We don't want to break this new alliance, this new political marriage, we don't blame you for it, you took responsibility for leading this country in the coming period. We are the opposition, we will be a constructive, state-of-the-art opposition, we will criticize you whenever we feel we should criticise you because you are wrong. At the same time, I wish you all good luck in your new political relationship, but at the same time we do not want to allow you to insult the Democratic Party in any way. There is no reason for the Democratic Party to give up everything that was done in Serbia's reforms three years ago. Very soon you will face the difficult problems of leading the country after the destruction that was, above all, the result of your rule in the last decade. You're talking about jobs, people who lost their jobs. These are the people who had fixed jobs, who had fictitious jobs, the whole economy was the result of your destruction. Yeah, a lot of people had jobs, but they didn't get paid for years. They complained about it. We haven't made in the last decade of the 20th century that they have fictitious jobs, but that's what you've done. For all that has been done in the last three years, we are fully prepared to bear any responsibility, absolutely every responsibility, every survey uniform, every investigation. What you say in this parlamett that we have done something to Serbia, that we have destroyed the economic system, that we have destroyed everything, as someone from the DSS says, although you have participated in a year in that government, even though your health minister was an active participant in the process, you have had Mr. Pradic, the vice president of that government. Gentlemen from G17 plus had participants in the system of government until a few months ago, not even a year ago, macroeconomic policy was led mainly by G17 plus and other parties who participate here in parliament, and SDP, had their participants in the system of government, and today you want to deprive yourselves of some responsibility for what you did in the previous years. We don't mind. We're ready to take responsibility for what you've done in the system of government over the past three years. We don't mind saying that. I just want to tell you that we're going to watch you work, criticize you for everything that deserves criticism, support for everything that deserves support, and don't complain too much. Mr. Ilic, I am very pleased to tell you that you have told the citizens of Serbia that you believe that the SPS is closer to you today than the DS, so let it remain and recorded. We really don't mind. We don't mind you doing a review of your participation on October 5th. It would be very ugly to mention those words that you used to refer to that stranger those years. On the other hand, everyone is the master of his destiny and takes responsibility for his political actions. Our objection to you or to what you intend to lead as a portfolio of capital investments is about the state. So, in the world, it never happened to unite the Ministry of Telecommunications, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Construction. These are totally diverse ministries, these are ministries that require a different kind of specialisation and jurisdiction, ministries that are in a way and technologically important to the society we live in. We don't think under these conditions you'll be able to do your job properly. God help you all. We hope for the best, because we want to believe that Velimir Ilic will bring new technologies into our country, build new highways, that the country will flourish by its ministry and we will see how soon it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u994	Replication to Mr Tadic's presentation? According to the Rules of Procedure? You can do it by your business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u995	Although ideologically our closest party is the Democratic Party, I still have to call the Rules of Procedure. Although it is about friends and friends from the Socialist International, I still have to call the Rules of Procedure anyway, and I won't ask to make a statement about whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been broken, but I would warn Mr Tadic that he has used the word that someone here is trying to make a joke out of parliament. I wouldn't get into Mr. Tadic's predetermined, that's Article 97(1), this House is not a joke. You, Mr. Tadic, know that industrial production and social product, and your government has done it, smaller than in those 10 years that you criticize. The result of each government is measured accordingly. Also, all our citizens know well that at a time when Serbia had sanctions, it had at least because it supported Serbs outside Serbia, and now it has been sanctioned for sugar smuggling. Also, Mr. Tadic, don't talk about someone trying to make a joke out of parliament. You, Mr. Tadic, both friends and comrades from the Democratic Party, have made a place for parliament to steal votes and steal mandates, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen and friends and comrades are currently making statements with prosecutors and investigative judges. So much about the lardy, and of course my mistakes can only be corrected by those who are aware of their mistakes. I think that friends and fellow Democrats are not only unaware of their mistakes, so they will never correct them, but I don't think they can be helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u996	One second, Mr. Tadic, then Mr. Ilic. Mr. Tadic, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u997	Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to hold a session of the Rules of Procedure and give notice to those who violate the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the Administrative Board be convened to determine who broke the Rules of Procedure here; Milka Planinz, most likely. Mr Dacic called on the 97th member of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no basis for the application of the Rules of Procedure's violation earlier, it may be a matter of Article 100 if Mr Dacic, by any chance, thinks that I offended him by my exposure. So, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is asking to determine whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured at this time and whether the chairman had to give Mr Dacic a warning. I really won't look back on the epochal sentences Mr Dacic later made, since he made an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u998	Thank you. I ask the Management Board to make a statement within the next 24 hours on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ilich, Mr. Ilich, on what grounds? Excuse me, please, there's no replica on the line. Just a second, Mr. Ilic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u999	I'd like to ask the honourable MPs to let us figure out what their goal is. We know there's panic in the ministries. They need a little time, they're distracting us here, and we all know that. Therefore, we will no longer be replicating you, talk about whatever you want, but you know and your people's proposal was that in many developed countries there are ministries of infrastructure that unite and Mr Tadic knows it well. It's impossible to do something more capital, more large, so that you have problems with urbanism, construction and others. In many countries it has been combined and we have tried to organize ourselves in a new way. So don't you, Mr. Tadic, worry too much about what's going to happen. If you're a professor of psychology and you've been an extremely good telecommunications minister, I'll manage something along the way. If you have now managed to organize an army as a professor of psychology, well done. You're the superman you're talking about, you're the girl for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1000	Please, Mr. Ilic, pay attention to the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1001	Mr. Tadic, I have not heard that in any serious parliament, the army minister sits here like some sort of "grandmother Simana" and replicates.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1002	Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1003	The Minister of the Army must be a man, Mr. Tadic, to be a soldier, not to sit there like a "sister of Persa". I think many generals are ashamed to see you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1004	Mr. Ilich, I give you a warning about the conduct of the People's Messenger. Replica, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1005	I have to admit that I really laughed and that sometimes it's good in this House and in serious circumstances to be funny. I thank Velija Ilic for the recommendations, although I am sorry that the Dass is just coming out of parliament. The great Das and the great man comes out of parliament because he believes that the future minister of capital investment must not sit in parliament as "grandmother Simana", it is now obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1006	Mr. Tadic, the same rule applies to you and the same Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1007	My suggestion to the chairman is to hold a session in the Rules of Procedure. Velimir Ilic had no reason to get his word back. Not as deputy head of the parliamentary group, because the head of the parliamentary group is saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1008	Mr. Tadic, the deputy head of the parliamentary group has every right to use his time at any time, because he didn't take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1009	He had absolutely no right to receive his word and I ask you to establish on the Administrative Board that the Rules of Procedure have been broken at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1010	The word is Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1011	I heard Mr. Martic here was worried about my enthusiasm or disappointment, whatever he wanted. Of course, since he's already discussing it, it would be good for him to listen to what I've been saying or at least read it. He had time to read what I was saying for a whole day, and I made clear the expectations of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in which direction this government should go and what the Socialist Party of Serbia will support in the coming period. However, if there is already some enthusiasm, then it is the enthusiasm of the citizens of Serbia, which I share, that you will not be the authority in the Republic of Serbia from now on, that you will go into history and that these affairs, in which you participated, discussed, will be learned here in parliament and in the Serbian political public. And that's what you're going to answer for, that's what I'm convinced of.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1012	The word is Mrs Nevena Karanovic, and let the MP Svetozar Krstic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1013	Dear People's MPs, Mr Kostunica, I would like to draw attention to the MPs that the way discussed in the last 15 minutes is certainly not appropriate for this parliament, especially on the day when we should decide on one big thing, the Serbian Government. The G17 plus party enters the government to contribute to society's progress. That, above all, is what nearly half a million Serbian citizens who voted for us in the last elections. In addition to several areas we took over in the government, we took responsibility for health care. Serbia's health situation, as you all know, is in a very difficult situation. That's why he needs system reforms, and we'll stand up for it. Reforming Serbia's tax system is not just a vision of what it will look like, but a good strategy adapted to society in transition, such as our society. Many of my predecessors, speaking of Dr Milosavljevic, said, reminded, that he was already in the reconstructed government of Dr Djindjic, and he is also the current candidate for minister in the government of Dr Kostunica. I would remind you of what Dr Milosavljevic did during his 13-month ministry. First of all, the Ministry of Health has been reorganized. Some new sectors have been formed, such as the sector for international relations and project coordination, development plan and reform, management improvement and funding. The work version of the health system reform and the work version of Serbia's health system development strategy, which has been under way for months of public debate by experts, i.e. expert circles. These drafts were largely accepted, however, the suggestions of health workers were also accepted and were included as complemented by the original proposals. Furthermore, the bill's proposals were completed, primarily the laws on medicines and medical means, then the health care chambers law, health care law, as well as the law amending the Health Insurance Act. Four hospitals have been reorganised, in Valjevo, Kraljev, Zrenjanin and Vranj, whose work organisation will serve as an example of what hospitals in Serbia should look like in the future. The pilot of the project was implemented at the royal hospital, and it is in its final phase, so based on the results obtained from this pilot project, we will apply the same system in other Serbian cities as well. An analysis of human resources and spatial resources has been made, and the most important money from the budget is spent on purpose, primarily on infrastructure and equipment. Health care is a problem that burdens and affects each and every one of us, regardless of whether we are patients, health workers or potential patients. To deal with health reform is one very responsible and I can say freely - thankless work. This is seen in the case of the Czech Republic, where the health system is much higher than in our country, in ten years, how long the reforms have taken, nine ministers have been there. Reforms have moved far beyond what we've come to. Practically, dealing with health reforms in transition countries is one long-term job, with a series of small and difficult shifts. A vision and a strategy is needed, but above all legal regulations. Therefore, G17 believes that the reform of the health system should be one of the priorities of the new government, which in the first month, and possibly within a hundred days of its work, should put before this assembly draft laws for adoption. This will be our first step in reforming Serbia's health system, and the ultimate goal is to improve the health of the population and create a health system that will be sustainable within the longer term.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1014	The People's Messenger Svetozar Krstic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1015	Just one correction. My name is not Svetozar. It's Svetislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1016	I'm sorry, that's what I was written down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1017	I'd like to say that in the last few years what St. Augustine said in the fifth century, and that's -- the exercise of power, if justice gets out, is a diabolical process. I wouldn't talk about what happened, I'd like to try to give some advice to the new government. First of all, there is a need to rely more heavily on your own forces. In the previous period, everyone who came to power, especially the last government, kept talking about foreign investments, assistance, etc. Our only way out of this situation is to rely on our own forces. As for the energy and the areas from which I come, I want to say that energy represents the infrastructure of economy and social life. Therefore, the condition for economic development is sufficient cheap energy. Serbia has a big problem with both. We don't have enough energy, we have expensive energy. After one kilowatt of time or one joule, as you will, we spend three times as much money as developed European countries. Energy can therefore be a serious limiting factor in economic development. I advise the new government that one of the first things it does is try to find ways to provide Serbia with enough cheap energy. I think he can do it. Not all internal resources are exhausted, and I think this problem can be solved. The second thing that is very important should not be rushed by privatising large industrial systems and public enterprises. This is really imperative, because the state has essentially, if we look at the state in the West, in some capitalism where we are now, practically, two basic levers of government: firstly, it dictates macroeconomic economic policy; secondly, the state is the largest capitalist. She owns the biggest capital. Therefore, the capital of this country, i.e. the government as a representative of the state, are large energy systems EPS, NIS etc. Not only should we not privatise these large systems for this reason, but in no case should we go with the privatisation that has been applied so far. The only acceptable form of privatization of part of large systems is recapitalisation. There is another important reason why it should be kept from privatising large systems, which is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Please, there are no small and medium-sized enterprises without large businesses. If we privatize and disintegrate large companies, then we can't even talk about the development of small businesses. Since I only have a little time, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1018	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1019	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when Serbian citizens went to the elections on December 28th, did not vote for MPs in the new assembly of the Serbian Parliament to listen to the exposés and to have Vojislav Kostunica as prime minister. However, your will, your coalition, your way of agreeing with other parliamentary parties, and we are in advance expressing our suspicion not only because Vojislav Kostunica has shown us in the exposé, but because of the earlier act, and his and his DSS, that it will go well and that Serbia will go through recovery and prosperity. The people have suffered a lot in the last three years under DOS, and whose part you were and whose main carrier you were since 5 October, given the fact that it is well known that never those who have exercised power over the past three years would have come to power if it had not been a list of 18 parties of this unfortunate conglomerate on the DOS list - Vojislav Kostunica. Mr Kostunica, since you are trying to sit so patiently and peacefully, and it is only a few times that you are in the new assembly of this House, count a little bit on what is going on in your parliamentary group, how you behave and how the MPs of your ranks react, because you cannot maintain the impression of a nice, moderate and peaceful politician, and that you have such ones in your parliamentary group. Those from afar are not as they are presented, and neither are you, and we will discuss this item by item. As for your activity and what you've done with the position of president of the SRJ, it's really more than devastating. We are as a state and as a nation under your rule faced with being the last state, that you may ask on our behalf without our authority to re-enlist in the UN, and thus you have thrown 200 years of our statehood under your feet, and what you are talking about in the first paragraph of your exposé and, I think, a little bit more than pathetic. As for your promises made in terms of democratic processes and economic policies, as well as social protection, there is absolutely nothing in your exposé to justify the recovery of the situation in all these segments. First, there's a lot of incorrect data, and if you've supplied them yourself or some of your former, present or future advisors, I don't know. You can't ignore the fact that it's not by statistical number of 950,000 people just without a job in Serbia today, you didn't say by the way, by the way, that a million and a half who don't have basic life supplies, you didn't specify that a million and a half of those who barely make ends meet. It is not 950,000 people who are unemployed, but it is much higher because all those who are completely demoralized and who have lost their jobs are not registered on a working bio, i.e. employment. It seems to me, Mr. Kostunica, by this exposé of yours and by the fact that you're not quite ready to stand by criticism, and what proved yesterday in your 20-minute replication, that your play seems to have more than one last hole. So you've been played in the last place against poverty, employment, stopping robbery privatisation and concrete examples of how it's going to happen. And if you had a good will to review that robbery privatisation over the past three years, your MPs would have voted with your suggestion yesterday for an SRS proposal to include our amendment and supplement of the Privatisation Act in the agenda. How can we trust you and who, after that time, will you be able to look into your eyes, when you know very well that your MPs have voted in favour of this Privatisation Act, when you know very well that your MPs voted in favour of the Labour Act, and by which many people in Serbia have lost their jobs, deleted the collective contract. How can we trust you when you propose to us as finance minister, means the entire country's budget, the fate of all the people who are on the budget, you trust Mladjan Dinkic, who sooner or later, if there is justice in this country for which you declare yourself, will have to go to jail. The group G17 minus - plus is a group whose leaders have to their elbows dirty hands in affairs, in criminal actions and in everything they have done to make themselves rich personally at the expense of Serbian citizens. How can we trust you to protect the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija when you propose an amazing model of cantonization? You know, what you were talking about yesterday, it's an amazing reminder of the period from the 1990s when Vuk Draskovic, your current coalition partner, who similarly advocated and predicted the fate of Serbs in Western Serbian countries, said that this map should look like leopard skin. If that's what the map in Kosovo and Metohija will look like, if you're going to leave Nebojsa Covic who supported you, all the time your presidential campaigns, and spend 2.5 billion dinar money, then it's hard for the citizens of Serbia and hard for us as such prime minister and with such authority. We cannot trust you to establish the development of democratic processes, because Dejan Mihajl's head of your parliamentary group, probably with your consent, and you can say it is not, but you are the president of that party, proposed a Rules of Procedure by which MPs were fined. They were denied the possibility of talking about very important laws, and all this was happening to the entire public, who was confronted with the fact that all these undemocratic processes were opposed only by SRS MPs. You said your priority was a new constitution, not social policy, an increase in living standards. If you follow what's going on in all Serbian cities and how people are being surveyed, they just want to know how they're going to live better. The restructuring of the economy; it's easy to write, but how are you going to do it in the EPS, which is so robbed, how are you going to do it with the flag group Kragujevac, how are you going to do it with other big systems? Where are those people in your office who are capable of that? Yesterday you said the SRS MPs have a conflict with themselves, however, Mr Kostunica, it is obvious that you are replacing thesis. I think you are in conflict with the will of the people and with the majority of Serbia, and above all with mathematics: 82 is much more than 53. And as things stand now, as you have written to us, what the composition of your cabinet is, and given that your support is very weak, that your past is bad, the present is difficult, the end is very close to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1020	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Homan, and after him... According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1021	President, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97th position, and I think that on that basis as a DSS MP, I have the right to reply, because Miss Natasa Jovanovic has said one thing here, and that is that DSS MPs voted in favour of the Labour Act. I would remind her that that is not true, that we did not vote for the Labour Act and that even we who warned that the Rules of Procedure and the whole voting procedure for Mr Borislav Novakovic, who was in Thessaloniki at the time. That's exactly what this Labour Act was about, and if you want to criticize the DSS and its MPs, then at least use the truth, and don't say things that aren't true. So, the Privatisation Act, it's true that we voted for it, with some promises from the government that were not fulfilled. We didn't vote on the Labour Act, and don't say what isn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1022	This was a business announcement, and it was actually a replica. I've asked you the previous days not to do that. Here you go, replica, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1023	If he was the head of the DSS parliamentary party, he could report for a word, there are some pretenders to be such a function as Mr. Shormaz, but this is obviously not possible. As for all the catastrophic DSS moves, they are in the context of co-operation with the G17 plus and with the rest of the DOS, in a very large and long period. And remember, in the city where you live, in many cities in Serbia and dozens of them, the DSS is in power with the rest of the DOS. Mr. Kostunica and you yourselves should worry about the fact that these people who exercise power in these municipalities and cities in Serbia have done nothing to improve the situation of those who are poor. They didn't do anything to improve the position of those who lost their jobs. They did nothing to improve infrastructure in these municipalities and cities, and above all you did everything to reverse democratic processes. You are one of the actors of these events in the Serbian Parliament, you were the loudest when the SRS MPs from this room were thrown out and scolded. It didn't help you again, it didn't help you because the people didn't want you and he didn't want Kostunica as prime minister, he didn't want the DSS to win the largest number of votes, and that's where mathematics is clear. There is a conflict between Vojislav Kostunica and mathematics, and it is a conflict between you and the citizens of Serbia, which will punish you much more and then will not be able to look us or the president of your party in the eyes, but the results of the next elections will wait together with you as the heads are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1024	The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that those who have a downside in their education, education, culture need to think very well and when they report to criticise G17 plus. That's the first thing. Secondly, I want to give credit to the mandater and his team for the courage to engage in a very important and difficult job for this country, at a time when they know that they have a very strong opposition in this House, which will wait for every mistake in what they say, barely. There will be many who will demand the quick adoption of system laws and who will then divulge every discussion with numerous amendments, replicas, violations of the Rules of Procedure and make of this Parliament what it was in previous councils, and we know what it was like. When I talk about how it is possible for this government to make a mistake once and for all, it is because anyone who does it can happen and make a mistake, not only those who "do not admit their mistakes" or those who confess their mistakes with a few months late, and then ask for a monument to their confession of their mistake. For this confession, the monument does not rise. I would look back a little on the previous governments, which have been changing in this House for the last ten, fifteen years. For all of them, the same is that at the beginning of their mandate they had very strong and strong support in parliament and in the people. As they did, that support and melt, first and foremost in the people, and finally in parliament. Milosevic ruled as much as he ruled, the DOS ruled much shorter and it is clear that citizens have less and less patience, and every next government, including this one, has an increasingly difficult and more difficult task. That's one of the biggest reasons why G17 plus agreed to join the government. This is a big challenge, and people in G17 plus don't fear the challenges and every task they've taken over so far have been successful. We promised in the pre-election campaign that if we were able, we would achieve much of our programme. There are now people in the government, such as Mr. Labus, Mr. Dinkic, Mr. Milosavljevic and Mrs. Dulic, who are guaranteed that this programme will be achieved as much as possible. We took responsibility for economic policy, for European integration and reform by entering the government. That's what we're gonna do in this government. To conclude, this government will not treat Serbia unnecessarily. It will not be irresponsible and we can expect that unlike all these previous governments, as I mentioned earlier, trust in the people, and perhaps in this assembly, this government will not be reduced, but probably increased. That's the difference between the previous and this government. Mr. Kostunica, I want you and your team to go straight to work, to prove your courage, honesty and expertise. It's a job that G17 plus and I personally give you full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1026	The People's MP Milovan Markovic has the word, followed by Parliament MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1027	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, before this discussion, I would like the chairman, in accordance with Article 82(6), to determine whether there is a quorum for the work of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1028	Please determine the quorum. I ask a group of non-existent MPs not to shout. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic. You don't have a word, because you weren't reported to be in the O.R. You can do it later, when you're verifying. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1029	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which the comrades and fellow democaths have put into the Rules of Procedure, which relate to when someone is present in the O.R. and does not record their presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1030	Mr. Tadic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1031	Mr. President, you've taken the word from the MP Markovic because you've made an observation that he's not in the O.R. He went out for this pay phone to ask for a quorum. His card stayed in the MP's unit. You can say it's not true as much as you want. At this point I saw it was true and there were 20 witnesses around his post. So you took away the word completely from the Rules of Procedure to our MP. You noticed he wasn't in the O.R. He couldn't get the card in, because he was standing here, waiting to identify the quorum. That's all the truth about this event. Twice we've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure today, this is the third time we've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you on the Administrative Board to determine what is true about this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1032	I thank Mr Tadic for drawing attention to what MP Markovic himself didn't know. In the future, when a quorum is sought, I will require a physical count of the MPs and then all those who draw cards and break the Rules of Procedure to get out of the hall and then count themselves as is the order. We will do so in the future, and we will have an accurate picture of those present. Here, Mr. Pitiæ nods his head, so he'll explain why I suggest it. The word has been made by MP Milovan Markovic. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it really isn't necessary, and I didn't expect an apology from the chairman, and at least to be taught how to behave in parliament. I don't know whether to start my discussion on the exposé of the prime minister or candidate for Serbian Prime Minister with the conclusion that this is how the government's proposed programme is easy to criticise or not to talk about, because this is one piece of paper that essentially gives almost nothing. There is no clear concept of what the government's policy will be in the coming period, there are no clearly indicated priorities that the government will deal with in the next period, no deadlines, despite the fact that Mr Kostunica reacted very nervously to such a remark yesterday and, I think, further introduced unnecessary anxiety in the debate on a very important issue. Which would be more important if not when parliament discusses the future government's programme, a couple of exeleans of an important state issue. In the process of agreeing on the formation of this government, a kind of political campaign occurred, a message to Serbian citizens that it is important to have a government, such a government. If this is such a government, let's also appreciate the fact that it wasn't possible, with the political potential they had, that parties forming the assembly majority in a shorter period of time, find personal solutions, reach political agreement and form a government. And let's respect the fact that Serbia is really in the position that time is the most critical resource and that we need to form a government that will access the realization of a serious programme. Indeed, the DS Parliament Club does not find that in this programme, as proposed in the exposé of the future Prime Minister, there are, above all, clearly indicated basic priorities, which we consider to be priorities for Serbian citizens. I will only comment on the part relating to the economic, and I will use the word reform, as much as it will not be liked by the future Prime Minister, because in a particular part he commented on how raving and ugly it is, all in the most negative context, although it is mentioned only in one place, when it comes to continuing reforms in the BIA, as if there were none, that they were not necessary in other segments and resolutions to be dealt with by the Serbian Government. It is nice to realize that the economic issue is crucial and that there is a potential for better living in Serbia and that Serbian citizens, above all, bear it in their own motivation, desires and qualities to be able to bring out streams of reform, but the government, ministries and those in charge, are obliged to create macroeconomic conditions, to create an environment in which it can be motivated, to put into effect all that potential. The basic illogicality that threatens to threaten the macroeconomic stability of our country is the thesis that it is necessary to reduce the taxes that burden our economy, as a driver and as a basic motivation for economic prosperity. That really doesn't hold water. I'm not sure that such tax reliefs in this situation in our economy can be an adequate incentive to make up for everything we lose on the other side, endangering budgetary balance and making sure that such experiments when it comes to tax policy are not necessary for this people. In the previous period, despite your claim that the government did not work in a good way, it was precisely in the field of tax policy, balanced budget, reduction of public spending and great discipline in the field of public spending that we had outstanding results and it is evident that the government that should assume the mandate in the next period in which there is money, in which there is no debt. It's strange that all those who went out here to praise, as a rule, those experts who, in the meantime, became bad politicians, who were participants in the previous government, said they were successful, and how successful they were, but in which, when the government in general, according to your assessment, did not achieve any results. Did these ministers work outside the system and out of that government? Indeed, it is illogical to say in the further explanation how the incentive of economic development will be done and, as it is said, the allocation of funds from real sources, the intervention from the budget in the priority sectors of the economy, which should be encouraged in its development, if initially talked about reducing tax rates, so on a direct reduction in budget revenues. On the other hand, we talked about it when it was on the agenda The proposal for a law on ministries, leaving out the concept of "privatisation" from the name of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is indicated that the future government does not have very clear objectives and a clear programme in which this important segment of our economic reforms or a key segment of economic reforms and privatisation will bring to an end, while taking into account its pre-election promises, that there was nothing right in privatisation, that it should suffer radical changes, that a new law should be passed. The Prime Minister's exposé does not show that anything will be done concretely. There are certain findings, we will consider, we will see, it is necessary, which basically indicates that the way the government enters through this programme in such serious affairs speaks of its inconsistency and uncertainty. It is such a finding that the restructuring of large systems does not necessarily mean staying out of jobs, because if we try to re-route the surplus of unemployed capacities to profitable and flexible, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers will have jobs. It's just like if you said, if we can produce products that will buy the whole world and build efficient businesses, we'll solve our economic problems. In what way? It's a question you're not used to meeting, gentlemen, you who are currently making a congregation majority. First of all, I mean the Democratic Party of Serbia. This is where we heard in the previous debate, let us work. It is one quite unusual, for the Democratic Party of Serbia a new statement. The gentlemen want to work, they won't take any more criticism about sleeping over, taking naps, wanting to work. Be assured that the Democratic Party will not be obstructed for one moment when it comes to quality and positive legislative proposals, when it comes to the recognizable reform course of the future government and we are taking part in this debate in a way that we contribute to the start-up of the future government, to be concrete and, if you will, without any illusions that it will be accepted, to point out what was wrong at the beginning of this programme. The mandate remained consistent with the fact that his way of political perception is that he never promises anything concrete, that he always talks about general places and thus avoids responsibility for reviewing his work when the time comes. But it's his right, and it's our duty to point out that the government program that's been offered here doesn't stand anything concrete. And we can't say after a year, you promised that within six months, the Privatisation Act will be amended and 10,000 new jobs will be opened, that the standard in Serbia will increase by, unlike the previous period, which was ruled by the government of Zoran Djindjic, when salaries from 40 euros rose to 190, in the future from 190 to 195. There's no such thing here either. So there are no concrete promises. This may be due to the way you formed the congregation's majority and one coalition that can by no means be related to a coalition in which, not to repeat what is said, one is advocating legalism, the other are experts to which Serbia is first, the third are monarchs and those who support who know what. Every day we hear something new about the Socialist Party Slobodan Milosevic, but Serbian citizens recognize them every time, no matter what they say and whatever they represent themselves and their role in supporting this government. The most people from the G17 Plus parliamentary group spoke about personal issues in the future cabinet of prime ministers here, praising their candidates for future ministers. I don't think you could skip the commentary on a personal solution for the Ministry of Business, but it adds to the fact that it's less important, by leaving it alone in the name of the Ministry of Privateization concept. Really, I'm not going to comment on that personal solution. I don't want to risk breaking the Rules of Procedure, Article 2, position 100, because anything I can honestly say about the candidate for that ministry could be worth breaking the Rules of Procedure and possibly a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1034	No, don't worry, I wouldn't warn you. Here, let me know if you have anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1035	Indeed, this time I will not give the outgoing President of the Assembly the satisfaction of continuing to violate the Rules of Procedure, to abuse the presidency. He showed he knows how to work. We'll see him when he gets here to report as minister of what I believe he doesn't even know what he means at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1036	Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, part of the prime minister's exposé yesterday was co-operation with The Hague tribunal. We in the Serbian Radical Party remember well, and I want to remind the public and part of you, that it all started the last hole in the play, and it ended yesterday with a consistent co-operation with The Hague tribunal. What happened in between? The government's mandate flew better and faster to Moscow, to tell our traditional friends the alliance with Russia and Belarus is out of the question, although there is a decision by the Federal Parliament, or the parliament of the Federal Assembly, as well as a decision by the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. After that, he applied for the admission of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to membership of the United Nations, as if we had emerged from the original community. Without a decision from the federal parliament, Goran Svilanovic appointed the federal foreign minister. Legally, there's nothing. When it came to the results of the December 28th elections, the slogans of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the majority partner in the coalition government, were: "As the people say" and "The word is a word". After the official results were announced, the current prime minister of the government went public and said the Democratic Party of Serbia would not be with those who were in power before 2000, but also with those who were in power after 2000, because, as the people say, the word is a word. Both members of the future government and before 2000 were in power and members of the coalition government were in power even after 2000. They were in power and those without whom the government could not vote, a significant part of the government before 2000. They were in power at all levels and those with the largest number of MPs in the coalition government. They were also in power in the Republic government, and in the federal government, and are now in power in a large number of municipalities in the Republic, with their partners, the Democratic Party, the Serbian Renewal Movement and others. So, as the people say, word is word. In the prime minister's exhibition, the government's priority is the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija under the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. In 2001, however, as in 2002, the prime minister of the government urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections and thus give legitimacy to the Albanian terrorist government, which is now causing problems regarding the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It was in the 2001 parliamentary province elections, as well as in the local elections in 2002. I am now asking myself as a citizen and as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, how can a majority partner in the coalition government address the Kosovo and Metohija issue, when another partner in the same government has, who is tasked and who has been ordered to launch or support the Kosovo and Metohija status issue in terms of separation from Serbia. The fight against poverty, corruption and the creation of a new constitution and, of course, the fight against organised crime are priorities, too. What is the role of people in the new government, in the government that is to be voted on in this parliament, people for whom various criminal affairs are tied, from financial malfeasance and money laundering, from the destruction of a large number of banks, from co-operation and money laundering through the Standard Bank in London, through the Euroaxis of the Bank in Moscow, which is the role of these people who should as members of the government to fight all kinds of crime when they themselves are to be held accountable for their complete crime, where they are involved to the throat. Of course, I deliberately do not mention the party's name and name, but if I mention that one of these people was governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, whose name is the money laundering and financial malfeasance both through the Standard Bank and through the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, we and the public will be made clear which party it is. What will happen to anti-privatisation, what will happen to a large number of fired workers, with resolving the life issues of Serbian citizens, what will be Mr. Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You advocate for a reason, and we in the SRS, of course, support this commitment of yours, co-operation with religious communities in Serbia, but you ignore a big problem there is. It's just a growing operation of religious sects. One of the most dangerous sects across Los Angeles and Tirana, largely through the state apparatus, trying to enter the financial and monetary system of the state, wants to break down what little we have left, what little we have left of the economy, the economy and all the resources and institutions. Of course, it's a Scientologist's sect, if someone thought it wasn't dangerous or that it wasn't in the area of the state community, or in particular I mean Serbia, we have reliable information that this is a great danger and that we need to make sure that we prevent its decision and its interference in Serbia's financial and monetary flows. Of course, the first attempt we have to make is to eliminate and disable the influence of people who will be members of the future government and people who will also be on certain other government functions. When it comes to the fight against organised crime and every other type of crime, let me finally tell you that we are in the SRS, as far as our political attitudes and commitment are concerned, consistent and principled. One of your closest associates is, I hope you understand me, "principled by principle."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1038	The People's Messenger Željko Ivanji has the word, and after him is the MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1039	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say today is that the future government must not forget that it is only the government. So it's one of the elements of the state government, in addition to the legislative and judicial authority. Only everyone in that system together in this system of government can we do something, and that's the basic thing. The new government we choose today is probably the biggest burden all governments have ever had. The new government must be a people's government. That's what wasn't a characteristic, so, past governments, that didn't grace the previous government. The people's will should be expressed before this assembly whose representatives we are. In order for people's will to exist at all, it must exist. So there must be a will in the people. How could there be if she was killed? It implies, in addition to the political will he must have, the will to survive at all in such a system as he was put into government today. Simply, if you have a minister for a man who promotes a comfortable life, promotes angry cars, with many cynicisms addressing Serbian citizens, then there is nothing you can do. Then there's only one thing left for the people to take down the government, like that happened on October 5th. The people, therefore, are here in Serbia fighting for a naked existence, but before some basic issues and before solving the biggest state affairs, the government has to define the basics. Not only the government, but parliament should also beautify this country, and they form the basis for the citizens of Serbia themselves so that they can have the will. So first we have to define what our territory is. We need to define what our country is, which is our national coat of arms and which is our national anthem. We here in front of ourselves, so, on this phone booth we have one coat of arms that is the formal-legal coat of arms of this state, but in fact it hasn't, it hasn't been that coat of arms for years. That's what hurts us all, and that's what makes us talk on behalf of the people. That's what we have to change all together. All of the above must be rounded up by a new constitution. The G17 plus advocated the adoption of a new constitution and that is what should be one of the first tasks of the new government. The consciousness, therefore, that I was talking about, about ourselves as members of this state, which has its coat of arms and its own anthem, is a prerequisite for establishing a privatisation that will have as a basic model and as a basic principle of agreement. So, the existence of a social agreement on privatisation itself, that's what didn't exist in the last government. This is what filled the registries in G17 plus, these are the complaints of Serbian citizens on privatisation, on the privatisation process, on sales principles, on the sale of bankruptcy, on the abuse of bankruptcy judges. That's what, therefore, did not grace the previous government. Finance; for finance conditions – trust. This trust has been gained by Serbian citizens in our macroeconomic policy, and therefore Serbian citizens have the confidence of the future finance minister. It should not be forgotten that for the telecommunications process it is necessary to have a simple piece of wire, it did not exist, therefore, usually a piece of wire in the installer does not exist, and then we cannot pass the e-business law, which Mr. Tadic brought in, but also built a house starting to build it from the roof. For trade, of course, there must be goods and markets. Agriculture needs to have cooperatives. If we go to the field, according to Serbia's villages, Serbian citizens say, our basic principle is disunity, not a cooperative principle. And why is that? Exactly because such a model of self-satisfaction was expressed by former ministers. The people are sickened by such a government and by such ministers. Also, what awaits us is the accession of the European Union and that is the process in which we enter with pride because we have always been part of Europe. Again, the precondition, so state, state borders and territory, must be satisfied. The old government is running out of time. There were no ministers in the government representing the interests of the people's will. There were ministers who were proven to have been involved in criminal activities and corruption. On this point, the court, as the third element of government and government, will give its answer. There were ministers who did the right thing, but they did it the wrong way, so these things lost their very essence. However, Serbia has survived and will survive precisely thanks to its history, thanks to the costumes of our ancestors and that is why it has been up to this government to correct what has been happening, we can say freely, in this country for 80 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1040	The word has the People's MP Bajram Omeragic, followed by MP Snezana Pantic-Aksentjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1041	I would like to say first of all that the Government will be minority and that the fact is really not at first looking forward to me, given that a country that has these problems in the field of economy, social policy and in all other areas of social life is very difficult to believe that a minority government can deal with them. But that's one fact now. There is a majority who will support her and should let the government do its job, and we will treat that government the way she does and how much she fills what's in this exposé. We are aware of the fact that one exposé cannot contain a list of all the problems and priorities that the government will deal with, but we would like to say a few notes, or a few additions, which, according to us, should be made by the prime minister, in order to supplement these exposures to some of the things that are very important to us. What I want to say first is that we are pleased to see a great intensity in the exhibition at the outset to strengthen the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The political option that I belong to is the survival of the state community, because we think there's no reason to break it down. There has been a lot of development in the past, we think this country should survive and that it is the interest of citizens of Serbia-Montenegro. As for the economic part of the exposé, we want this programme to be complemented by something called balanced regional economic development. We have this everywhere in Europe, and it is rare for the mandaters in their programme to miss out, not to mention balanced economic regional development, given that there is a great difference in the region in economic development in our country. In this regard, we call on the mandater to deal with this topic in the future and to find, in some ways, through the ministries or in some other way, how he considers it less rational, to pay attention to balancing the economic development of different regions in our country. One part of this exposé concerns the issue of facilitating the acquisition of the citizenship of our citizens. It is said in the exposé that it is necessary to make it easier for citizens of Serbian origin to reach the citizenship of our country. We want to supplement that with one view, that this should be made possible under more favourable conditions, of course by that law that will be passed later, to all citizens born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and clearly express the desire to be citizens of this country. This enables all those who have a positive relationship with this country, thus showing that the state has an equal, uniform attitude towards all citizens of this country. As for minority participation, we are pleased that in the exhibition, the prime minister has already predicted that minorities will be given great attention, especially in the work to make their participation manifestly felt in all state institutions, especially in executive bodies. We want to complement that, to suggest that many times there have been people who have no legitimacy in the executive organs. We hope that the mandater will consider this fact, therefore, when it comes to minorities, they will be involved in the executive bodies, in the administrative bodies, in all the institutions of this country, but when it comes to executive bodies to ensure that people who have legitimacy are chosen, as did representatives of parties who have legitimacy in the last elections. The term of office mentioned that there was one bad fact, which is about the economic situation and he mentioned that we import apples, import grain. I think he mentioned it because we're big apple and grain producers, but I think it should be complemented in a way that we're producers and jeans, textiles, shoes, skin and other products and that we need to find a way to protect our production. I don't want to stand up for some kind of protectionism. I'm a supporter, and I think it's clear to everyone that liberalisation is one necessary condition in co-operation with the world. We cannot close our market, but our market should be no more, no less closed or open than the markets of all the countries in Europe. All countries in the European Union and beyond find ways to protect their production. Not because it deprives the influence of external competition and external conditions of self-inflictedness, but there is a way to protect its production in some way. It doesn't have to come to our production being shut down and we have a large number of unemployed workers. What I want to say to this occasion is that for many decades, no government of the Republic of Serbia has paid attention to a chronic problem in our area, particularly in Novi Pazar. These days you're witnessing a massive flood in our area. Local self-government can't handle it. I really don't think the prime minister in his exposé can deal with specific problems, or individual problems, but that's a decades-old problem. I want now, when the prime minister is about to start his job, to point out something that is a vital problem, and right now in Novi Pazar, hundreds of families remain unsettled. From the local self-government budget, it is not possible to resolve this and I call on the government to find solutions to take care of a large number of families and solve this decades-old problem. As far as local self-government is concerned, it will be cooperative to engage with the government in solving these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1042	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic, and after that, MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1043	Dear Presidency, Mr. Kostunica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address you today as one of the group of 31 G17 Plus MPs. The G17 plus was founded to help the citizens of Serbia and to this is bound by half a million voters, citizens who trusted us, who now trust us and vote for us. Our pre-election promises were made to all Serbian citizens and they know that the G17 plus party is capable of fulfilling the promise and achieving co-operation with everyone. Those who are willing to take responsibility have entered the new government. G17 plus is ready to take responsibility where we have already had success and where we will achieve good results. Like most citizens, we were in a position to face a series of health shortages. What led us to that? First of all, there are no clearly defined objectives and designed strategies for reforming and developing the health system. The result of this work is dissatisfied citizens, healthcare users on the one hand and dissatisfied healthcare professionals on the other. Health care professionals are unmotivated for work. Medical salaries are small and medical facilities are in very poor condition. The equipment's out of date. The availability of health services is compromised. G17 plus has a vision and a strategy of the future health system. The preconditions for a new start and bringing the health situation into order are the adoption of new laws. G17 Plus proposes the adoption of four new laws: the drug law and medical means, the health workers' chambers law, the health care law and the health insurance law. The Health Protection Fund would allow modern health insurance on economic grounds to represent logistics in the implementation of health policy. The co-operation of the Ministry and the Fund will certainly be quality, better and different than before. The laws are the first step, and the next is the development of a main plan and a network to improve the health of the population, and the health system is sustainable over the longer term. We will restore dignity to both the user and the recipient of health services and health care professionals. G17 plus isn't afraid of challenges. We went to the government to do concrete things. We give full support to the government and we put citizens' interests first and, as always, we will keep our promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1044	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Darko Glisic, and the next is MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite clear from the discussion that was conducted yesterday and today, and based on what maintains a picture of the public opinion that this government does not really represent the people's will, the will that was expressed on December 28th of last year. In an analysis of Mr. Kostunica's exposés, I would have gone from the very beginning, therefore, to the question that opened this exhibit -- what Serbia is asking us to do. If I may paraphrasise, what Serbia expects from its people's representatives and what Serbia expects from what were the results of the December 28th vote. I think that the citizens gave a very clear answer to that question in the December 28th elections and in those elections that were overtures for these parliamentary elections. It seems to me that they really have gone one way and shown certain political parties what they need to do, to start solving really burning issues in this country, so that a simple, functional government, which would not be burdened with various calculations within the coalition itself, would be a government that would be very similar and could indeed solve those burning issues. It seems to me that everyone understood it, but it's not the DSS, and I don't know for what reason, and I don't know what it is that defines them in this way the ruling majority. Whether it's vanity, whether it's fear or something third, time will show the best. It seems to me that the three basic characteristics of what characterizes this government are that it is clearly going to be chosen. These are really big concept differences within the coalition partners themselves. I would not say, indeed, that the public knows very well and the MPs are addressed from which and to what extremes it goes, and what conceptal differences these are. The government has a very vague goal, so it seems to me that the hidden goal is to run from the election at all costs. Thirdly, it gives a ray of hope to the citizens of Serbia, and this is a very short period of time for it. The exposé itself is quite vague, in general and indeed offers no concrete solution to any question. If I were to analyze it in a row according to the items that the prime minister stated in his exposé, I would stick to several items. Kosovo and Metohija and the division of entities, i.e. the cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija. Indeed, it is unclear in whose name and how the mandater foresees to do so, where the border will be withdrawn and who will represent the interests of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, who will be their representative. Will it remain Nebojsa Covic? Here, today we have a chance in the press to see that you, Mr. Kostunica, have promised Nebojsa Covic that he will continue to represent the government. That's what he said today. We had a chance to see in all the daily newspapers, and, you know, the word is, I'm not sure if you're going to step on it or if you're really going to stay on what you promised him, that he'll still be a representative of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. If you really respect the election results, then you should know that more than 70% of citizens went out to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija gave the SRS confidence, the programme she offered for the territory of the entire Republic, especially to resolve their issue in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that if you really want to respect their opinion, you should not have a dilemma that you will consult when resolving issues in Kosovo and Metohija. Of the other items, I'd stick to this, and that's my favorite, the judiciary. The fact is that the judiciary was also exposed to politicisation and the very pressure of political powers in the previous period. I hope you break up with that practice. You have a great opportunity to show it to the public simply: the rooms of the SRS, which are legally and legitimately leased and in which the SRS is in one law-based way, to free more of the possessions of those who come daily to evict us, by calling for some law, and really abusing the position they are in. Next, I hope you'll break up with the pressures in the courts. I have a really great example from the middle that I come from. I think that the beginning of clearing up corruption and pressure itself in the judiciary could begin from the very disclosure of many affairs. If you were to face the tobacco mafia and if that tip of the iceberg started to melt slowly, I think a lot of things would open up to you in the judiciary to regulate them. Let's say, an example of how; one of the judges in Valjevo was threatened, and I'll tell you who threatened her, so it'll be much clearer to you why I'm talking about the tobacco mafia. So, the judge who had to withdraw from that case in his statement, and I can deliver a statement, says she was forced to judge by the dictatorship of fear, threat and threat of personal existence. She was threatened by a lawyer named Stanko Subotic. You are very familiar with who Stanko Subotić is and it is quite clear then how those who are with him behave and how they exorcise their justice. People there want to satisfy their justice in a law-based way, not one that has a certain power and has a certain financial means, which has these methods of coercion and can force or force someone to judge them the way they want them to. As for the information you've provided, that close to a million people are unemployed, that's a fact, and I think the answer to so many unemployed lies in your office. If you look first to yourself, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Miroljub Labus, then you will know that the good part of these millions of unemployed is his authorial work, if I may say so. When you put aside the decision on the election of Governor Kori Udovici and you rightly called for quite irregularity, so that there was indeed something that could be called freely by counterfeiting the will of the Assembly, by stealing votes, you had to know, and I believe you know, that the same thing was done when the Labour Act was passed. Some logical trail would be, if the first manipulation was broken and the first manipulation was made when the Labour Act was passed, to put it out of force first, but it seems to me that as your government perceived it to be a service, that it was, if I may say so, buying a certain number of MPs, who would support what you bring here. It's a general feature of the entire government, it's simply the government of your mutual concessions, a government that will be so burdened by these interdependences, interdependences, that I really think, and I'm almost convinced that it can't solve any burning issue. Just one last thing at the end; last time, in the previous session, when I spoke, denied and documented that you and your party participated in certain municipalities in crisis headquarters, it was now not enough for you to learn, so MP Šormaz threw Natasha Jovanovic, an SRS MP, to lie, when she claimed that DSS and DS were ruling in some local environments. You must know, Your Honor, that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party never lie. Here's your proof of this. You clearly said that Natasa Jovanovic lies when she says the DSS is running local government with the Democratic Party. She didn't say in all the municipalities, but in a dozen municipalities, I apologize if I misjudged, but I'll finish, just to document you, so the public doesn't think it was all about all the municipalities. You are sitting next to Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, who is the vice-president of the Municipality of Valjevo, a member of the DSS, a assembly of municipalities whose chairman is a member of the DS and president of the executive board of members of the DS. It's not like you're as nasty to each other as you'd say "the old love of oblivion is gone." It seems to me that this is why you will not be able to resolve a single burning issue, and it may be best for the elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia to be discussed as soon as possible, to finally get that institution, and it would be best for the same cost to be the elections for the province's assembly. So that's what I'm saying because of you, because if you divorce it, you'll lose the president's first, then the provinces, then the locals, you'll get the complex then. It's easier to get over it when you lose the election at all levels in one day, it'll be easier for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1046	Replica, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1047	I don't know if you're Miss Natasha Jovanovic's lawyer, but it's absolutely not true what you said. First I didn't tell a lie, I told a lie. Regarding the Labour Act under one, and under two Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic, you can see for yourself by looking at the stenographic notes, she said that in many cities in Serbia, which is true, the DSS remains in power with the DS. It's a fact in a few cities, but it's not true for my city, and she said "in your city," and that's why I said it was false, and that's Smederevo. There the DS minority was in power with the support of the SPS, and now the SPS has launched an initiative to bring down that power, which we of the DSS have joined and, God forbid, we will soon replace that power. So, another one of the lies that was told, so I'm asking you to keep an eye on the facts in the future before you answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1048	The People's Messenger Dragan Sutanovac has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vesna Lalić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this kind of exposure, it's hard to perform at a pay phone. I am sorry that Mr. Angelkovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, is not present here because the DS has been the most concerned these days and I would like to tell him that no party, nor will the DS go into history from this parliament. I'm sorry the Prime Minister came out because I wanted to ask him a few serious questions. Secondly, it is mentioned in the exposé that the key issue is solving problems within the state community and that this is one of the burning problems of the Serbian government. I am interested in how this problem will be solved, given that a third of the government in its election campaign said it advocates independent Serbia. Is there honesty here, and if he got a promise from someone from G17, I'll tell you that all DS members remember the promises made by Mr. Miroljub Labus at the DS congregations. The last thing he gave was that he wouldn't get out of the DS and that DS was all he had in his life. There's no mention of another very important thing in my exposé, and that's the question of Partnership for Peace. What is the relationship between the Serbian government and the future government towards the Partnership for Peace, given that it is one of the most important global things and that we will for how many months be the only country in the northern hemisphere that will not be a member of the Partnership for Peace. I also see the problem of resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues in this problem. I cannot believe Mr. Prime Minister forgot September 2000, when his parliamentary coalition partners welcomed him in Gracanica stones and eggs. Now together with them, he will solve Kosovo and Metohija's problems in the way they started in the period. Also, on the seventh side of the exposé, it is said that future estimates of the value of the company will be more realistic and closer to the market. What does it mean that the estimates will be closer to the market? Will the estimates be marketable? Do you want to warn this gentleman in the second row, third from the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1050	You do your job, and I'll do mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1051	Mr. Marsicanin, when Mr. Markovic does not respect the Rules of Procedure, it is because man is inexperienced, and when you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, it is because you abuse him. In the end, I'm also interested in the question of the MUP. During the campaign, it was said that decriminalisation and depoliticisation of the MUP would take place. There's no mention of a word of decriminalization in the exposé. Does this mean that the DSS has established that there is no crime in the MUP or that it has been eradicated? I'm interested in how the M.O.P. is going to be depolitized? In the end, the G17 Plus gentleman said that the G17 Plus programme is such that all Serbs, Hungarians, live in the same state. Is this the platform on which the Serbian government will work in the coming period and how you think to implement it that all Serbs, Hungarians and Bosniaks live in the same state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1052	The People's Messenger Vesna Lalić has the word, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1053	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I want to repeat from this pay phone what I believe and you know well, and that is a set of comments and criticisms that as an ordinary citizen on the street, a doctor on the job and as a political representative of the G17 plus I listen every day. Directly after October 5th, the previous government was given trust and rating, based on the expectations of the people, plus infinitely. In the exercise of power over the past three years, she has wasted the trust and patience of the people, stumbling along with the relations of professions, politics, general interest, personal interest. Today the expectations of the people are also enormous. The rapid growth of standards, employment of young experts, The Hague, integration into Europe, the fight against organised crime, the launch and reviving of the economy. Politicians G17 plus citizens see as people who will be responsible for the situation in the economy. This is in a difficult economic situation and there are minimal chances that the accumulated problems will be solved overnight. We, MPs G17 plus, from this assembly booth are sending a clear message to the people that we have already begun our work on removing the problem. We never have and will not argue over things that cannot be slow, which are vital interests of the state, which we require of others, regardless of party interests. This government's time and operation must be quick and efficient, with a clearly expressed vision that it has and endurance in solving the problem. In view of this, I do not want to waste any words, nor time on empty promises, but I recommend, when the question of G 17 plus my profession – health care, that the health of the people is of general and general interest. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Kostunica and the Ministry of Health, headed by Mr. Tomic Milosavljevic, will define health policy frameworks in Serbia and contribute to the health care system to preserve and improve the health of the population. The first steps of health reform are the adoption of system laws, four important laws: drug law and medical means; the health care law; the health insurance law and, ultimately, the long-awaited law on chambers, which will enable legal mechanisms to protect the interests of the profession by forming standing chambers and associations. All of this, along with some accompanying laws, such as out-of-body fertilization, organ transplants, food safety, disease control, health records, opiate traffic and opiate precursors. It's all possible to do in the first 100 days of government work. The health care system must be such that all citizens trust him, not to make a difference between people, to help our children, young, old, women in the right way, and to enable us, health workers, to work with dignity, so that we can help people. In the end, I want to say, on all these jobs G17 plus will persist, because these are the expectations of our fellow citizens, and we don't want to let them down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1054	The People's Messenger has the Word of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and then the People's Messenger of Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1055	Ladies and gentlemen, the exposé of the new Serbian government, which was presented to us yesterday, is a dry, general text at the level of theory, which is absolutely contrary to what Serbian citizens expect from the new government, and certainly contrary to the pre-election promises of the DSS. Mr. Kostunica should know that within several hours, from the moment he is elected prime minister, he cannot be a mere theorist anymore, that Serbian citizens and the new government expect to be activated, they expect concrete moves from which at least someone or at least at some level should be better. Mr. Kostunica, according to this exposé, acts as if he does not know that in Serbia, unfortunately, there are a large number of citizens who are literally hungry. Under his social programme, this theory of the social programme, he did not say how he felt about ensuring that these hungry citizens had at least a kilo of bread and a liter of milk per day. There is no concrete solution for millions of unemployed in Serbia, there is no indication that the unemployment will continue to stop. There's only, in terms of restructuring the economy, one interesting sentence. He says, "Restructing large systems doesn't necessarily mean losing jobs if we try," etc. There's no Mr. Kostunica to tell us if he has any intention of doing his best or no intention of trying. In addition, one of the future ministers has already announced that there will have to be a significant number of redundancies in his ministry. The second minister says he is being set up for affairs because the government of Vojislav Kostunica will be conducting, in fact, his party's programme, the minister's party. The same was said in 2001, when the government of Zoran Djindjic was formed. Logically, the question arises is there any difference between this outgoing and this coming Serbian government? If judging by the statements of this future minister, there's no difference. In one ministry, again, the future minister says that in a year, nothing can be done in the ministry. He says he's missing projects, and it takes a year for these projects to be done. What is the attitude of the Prime Minister towards the really key problems that are now evident in Serbia, he showed yesterday when, as a MP, he did not vote in favour of the SRS parliamentary group's proposal to discuss, following an urgent procedure, the resolution of the problem in Kosovo, the urgent process of discussing the criminal privatisation that should be stopped and prevented, the urgent debate on the putting out of force of the Law on Planning and Construction, that is, so on. Laws on legalization. That is what Serbian citizens expect from the new government, but unfortunately, it is not a problem the new government will deal with. As far as the mandater's stance on Kosovo and Metohija is concerned, some terrible data are listed here. One of these is that "essential autonomy", according to the prime minister, "the Serb communities in Kosovo mean territorial autonomy, division of entities, or cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija". This is really scary and this is completely the opposite of what Mr. Kostunica promised in the election campaign. He mentions he will be involved in solving problems in Kosovo and the Coordination Centre, probably, as we read today, headed by Nebojsa Covic. That's what Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija don't want and that's what our citizens don't want on the ground of the southern province. That's what Mr. Kostunica in the election campaign didn't promise. Also, says Mr Kostunica: "It is understood that we are ready for direct talks and with representatives of temporary institutions of self-government." Of course, I'm not surprised, because Mr. Kostunica convinced Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija and thus gave legitimacy to the Cypriot authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. He created the Return Coalition, which collects beautiful money on the expense of its relatives, friends and neighbours from Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the judiciary is concerned, Mr. Prime Minister has completely unwarrantedly told all people that they are corrupt, that there is a high degree of politicisation, ineffectiveness, etc. It is a fact that there is corruption, it is a fact that there is a strange relationship between the representatives of the judicial authorities and the authorities of the executive authority, but these are individual cases and did not have the right for the gentleman's mandate to classify all honorable and honest people from the judiciary in this group. If he wants to depolitise the courts, then let him make the first move, let the president of the Belgrade District Court, who is a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, resolve. In the pre-election campaign, the Democratic Party of Serbia, when it comes to The Hague tribunal, placed it in the anti-Hastian lobby and Mr Kostunica had nothing against it, because he knew it brought significant votes, because he knew that the vast majority of Serbian citizens were, in fact, the anti-Hash lobby. In this exposé, Mr. Kostunica did not write what he promised in the election campaign. Mr. Kostunica says certain means of proof will be provided against our citizens. This is a completely stupid sentence, because it cannot say that funds will be used against our citizens, it could say something that is more pleasant to the ear, something that is more legally correct, means that funds will be provided that burden our citizens for the events of war crimes committed. Mr Kostunica knew, it has been happening for three months now, that human rights of our citizens are being violated in The Hague. Mr Vojislav Seselj and Slobodan Milosevic have been unable to communicate with their families for three months, but are in complete isolation. Mr. Seselj has not heard his wife, nor his four children, nor his mother, nor his party friends for three months, and Mr. Kostunica has not found it appropriate to say that the future government will take care of the basic human rights of our citizens in The Hague. When it comes to refugees, the prime minister says 370,000 refugees live in Serbia, of which more than 250,000 took Serbian citizenship. Well, I guess these 250,000 people aren't refugees anymore, or the future government intends to call them that ugly and humiliating name for them for the rest of their lives. If he wants to help refugees, Mr. Kostunica should, and he should have done so yesterday, voted to put aside the law on legalisation and thus protect those people from robbery, because they should have paid 10-15.000 euros to legalise objects that they had badly acquired. He did not say Mr. Kostunica what he would do with these refugee camps, in Indjia, Serbian Krstur, etc., where these people have already received solutions to move out of the facilities that have adapted to their own resources. Given that the exposure lists all the problems that exist in Serbia, and there are no concrete ways to solve these problems, we in the Serbian Radical Party are absolutely certain that we will have an easy task of destroying this government. We will bring you down much faster and much easier than the previous one, among other things, because today we are in Parliament 82.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1056	The People's MP Branka Bosnjak has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1057	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to address you with a few brief conclusions that I have come to by listening to the previous speakers. Yesterday and today's discussion of the inaugurally, the new governments reminded me of the thought of the famous Bentama utilitarian. I'll try to paraphrase. It's in the general interest that some people refrain from stealing, but it's not in their interest. Fortunately, there's an end to that sentence. Where there are effective laws, there's no problem. The G17 Plus party stands for such a government and such Serbia. The new government needs to pass these and other laws that we will adhere to, on the basis of which we will start reforms, end and start some other reforms. However, now that we are one step ahead of the new government, I would like to remind the citizens who voted for their representatives in this assembly, and therefore what kind of government they would like to have. Citizens in December's elections have unequivocally said they want a democratic government, which means a government to be represented by four democratic blocs. They are anxiously expecting us to end this parliamentary debate, to form the government and begin to rule. We know that there is someone who has failed the will of the citizens. We don't have a majority government. We have a minority government. Those who participated in the talks, who failed to agree, bear responsibility for why the government begins its mandate as a minority. The G17 Plus party actively participated in these negotiations. She has always advocated that the democratic will of citizens is respected. Those who gave up halfway to the formation of a democratic government should answer whether they could not or did not want to agree. G17 plus with coalition partners is ready to accept responsibility. In the end, I want to express another surprise. Where from so many words of anger, first, those who offered to form a coalition government with the Democratic Party of Serbia, and then those who sat yesterday and negotiated with the same parties that would form the government. And in that situation, we probably rule along with her and probably defend from this pay phone the same candidates for the ministers that we're talking about best now, because we think so. Let your voters judge your consistency. At the end of my presentation, I would like to thank Mr Kostunica for his proposed cabinet, to propose to him a successful government, to wish all ministers successful work. I hope the citizens will remember you by your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1058	Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'd like to reassure MP G17 plus who was talking from this pay phone about someone's anger. I don't know where you noticed anyone's anger with the MPs of the SRS, because he's just gone. We went out for this pay phone and we're going to come out and point out the fact that what you're doing is exactly the opposite of people's will.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1060	Comrade Vukic, we've already had problems reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and then having a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1061	I signed up for the replica. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: He applied for the replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1062	I'm sorry, it's my fault. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1063	So, I answered the line. There were no lists of the democratic bloc anywhere, and especially not four lists of the democratic bloc. So you honored each other in that election campaign, to say that you are hundreds of thousands of miles away from each other, not that you all belong to one democratic bloc. Nowhere has it been said that these four or five political parties will enter the common government. You didn't offer that to anyone before the election. You haven't told anyone. If you did, be sure, you'd get a lot less votes. But it is our job to tell you that the people and citizens of Serbia did not want such a government, because if they did, then they would have voted differently and their mood would have been differently valorised. Serbian citizens, above all, wanted to change, wanted a different power, wanted everything that would be contrary to what they had in 2000 to 2003, with the exception of the Democratic Party, they got the same thing. And they got you, the loudest one here today, who was the most involved in the financial part of that government, someone would say you look like a former JUL; personally I wouldn't say, don't look alike, they were counting and looking at someone else to have, and you're just where money is being solved, nothing else. I want to tell you that Serbian citizens not only didn't want such a power, which you will soon be able to see for yourself in the new parliamentary elections, in the new province elections, in the presidential elections, in whatever local elections you want. But you must have one thing in mind: legality is not the same as legitimacy and therefore you do not see any anger and anxiety in us Serbian radicals. Unlike you, which is the only thing you've ever reached, always and at any moment, it's cash registers, mostly budgets, or National Banks or business banks, and sometimes with guns and rifles when you've failed. We don't have much to worry about, because we're in opposition, we've learned about opposition action. Most of the political work of the SRS was opposition, we accept it quite coldly, we will congratulate you, you will see, Mr Nikolic will congratulate Mr Kostunica, regardless of what we think you do not have the legitimacy and you will make sure you do not have the legitimacy. Don't worry about our anger, worry about the wrath of the Serbian people and the citizens of Serbia over your rule until today and about your rule from tomorrow. You'll have a lot to worry about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1064	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you that it is planned not to take a break at 1400 hours. There are exactly two hours of debate left on this agenda point and then the government's election can be joined, of course, and the term of office. Then, in any case, it will be necessary to take a longer break, so I would suggest that, no vote, I inform you that we will work without a break until approximately 15.45 hours or 16:00 hours, and then after the government's election, take one break, enough for anything necessary both administrative and political. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Boban Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prime minister of the future government has offered a programme of resolutions that differs significantly from his programme in the pre-election campaign. Namely, those who would make a future government promised during a pre-election campaign that they would produce visible results in relation to the social programme and that Serbian citizens would see that they would feel better life, a higher standard, and there were promises of employment; some promised 400,000, half a million workers they would immediately hire, so that Serbia has a rebirth. However, the exposé and programme offered in this National Assembly do not give rise to such facts or evidence. In the programme of mandaters, when it comes to agrarian, there is no word about whether farmers will be provided with the upcoming set, better prepared and more successful than the one that has been for the past few years. It cannot be seen from the mandater's programme whether oil farmers will be provided at regressive prices, whether the prices of re-romaterials will be removed, whether tractors and agricultural machines will be able to obtain more favourably, whether prices will be lower, etc. and whether sugar beets, sunflowers and other agricultural products which have not been paid to farmers in good time will eventually be paid. In relation to the chapter concerning the judiciary and the administration, it is not seen how the harmful consequences of the Sabre action will be eliminated. In the "Sabbe" action, 11 and a half thousand people were arrested, so people were arrested at the individual's free estimate, there were no decisions by the competent court for arrest, and the Serbian Constitution in article 16 provides that someone could deprive himself of his freedom and determine detention only on the basis of the court's decision. I ask the question of how this new government will remove the adverse consequences, having seen the fact that there have been numerous abuses, that the government has been putting daily pressures on the authorities of the judiciary, that there have been advocacy after 5 October to establish camps in the Delibrad Cave and on the Suvoj Planina; whether there will be remandism, whether people will be placed unruly to handle the judicial authorities, whether they will be unprofessional for judges and prosecutors, whether there will be an education of our judges within our judicial system, or whether judges will be allowed to come from Croatia to educate judges of the Supreme Court of Justice of Serbia that they should judge suspects of war crimes in the Republic of Serbia. The SRS will never agree with such methods. The SRS does not accept the mandate officer's assessment that corruption is in the judiciary. The SRS is asking for this state of emergency to be translated into regular justice. The SRS believes regular courts should be tried. Institutions were established during the previous government, such as special courts, special prosecutors, and the question arises how can judges in special courts and special prosecutors have multiple salaries compared to regular courts, judges and administrations, and that a dactylograph in a special court has a higher salary than judges in the municipal and county courts. So these are the questions the SRS is asking to settle in the area of the judiciary. It can't happen that the lawsuits continue to be held for 15, 20 or 30 years without the country's responsibility, that the citizens have damages. It cannot happen that detentions are determined on a daily basis, to dozens and dozens of cases, that detentions are often extended contrary to Article 24. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Code of Criminal Procedure, to extend detentions at the request of the public prosecutor, and to make this criminally greater in certain courts lightly accept and extend. Therefore, the SRS believes that in the areas of administration and justice many cases must be resolved, that the judiciary must be provided with working conditions. What was promised in the previous period would be a thousand marks, and now we have a situation that judges have cut their wages. Therefore, the SRS believes that freedoms and rights of citizens must be ensured, but not as they are now. There's more to be taken care of in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1066	The People's Messenger Boban Vojnovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has given its opinion on the newly formed government. Is there anything to say besides the fact that in this newly formed government there will be the same ministers, one part of the DOS that has dealt with no one but its own people in the last few years? This is the kind of government that reminds you of the previous one. There was a back-to-back, and there were many desires and many orders to form one of these governments. A good part of this government has participated in the previous DOS government, and we know that there has never been a worse and more destructive rule in this country. In three years, 400,000 workers were fired. The government's debt amounts to over two billion dollars. Most Serbian citizens live on the edge of poverty, and data on the health of young people are worrying, where poverty and the economic crisis in Serbia are causing. The data published in "Evening News" since 16 February 2004, on the health of young people in Piroth, a city where I come from, and many today call the forgotten city, is proof of how the previous government and current government in Serbia are causing these phenomena. The text reads: "Concerning the health status of young people in Pirot; there are more and more hungry students. Systematic reviews found that each fifth founder was malnourished and a total of 14.5% were malnourished." That, gentlemen, is a very worrying data, and all of this causes different kinds of diseases, visual disturbances, etc. The cause of this is your authority, gentlemen, your former government that has impoverished both my fellow citizens and all citizens of Serbia, and the consequences of poverty are hunger, malnutrition, crime, drugs and prostitution. When we won the December 28th election and won 82 parliamentary mandates, we should have given up our great-grandfathers, invented many abominations and sewed them to Serbs, praised the Cypriots and the Ustasha criminals, gave up Serbian brothers in Republika Srpska, and become a democratic bloc. The Serbian Radical Party never to enter the government, never to win power, at the cost of not winning a single vote in the elections, we will never do so. Is it necessary to repeat that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica will be the same man who freed the most radical, steepest Shiparian criminals and murderers from prison? They have returned to Kosovo and Metohija and today kill and commit the most terrible crimes against the remaining Serb population in Kosovo. Have you forgotten that Vojislav Kostunica was the president of this country and that during that time Serbs were kidnapped in Serbia and taken to The Hague? In the December 28th elections, did Serbian citizens want to have their future government run by those who burned the Federal Assembly and TV? Do Serbian citizens need ministers who were armed, armed with weapons, breaking into the National Bank and other state institutions and businesses? Now they're the same in the government again. There are also those who kick journalists on TV shows. There were exes who were the worst and those new ones who didn't promise much. Look at what that's going to be like. Serbian citizens elected in the elections, chose the Serbian Radical Party, and at all costs you formed such a government, so now you say -- well, we formed a democratic government from democratic parties, while we won 82 parliamentary seats in democratic elections, we are not a democratic bloc. Are our 1,070,000 voters, the Serbian Radical Party's voters, not democratically defined? You gentlemen insult these people who have their democratic right to declare themselves in the elections as they wish. You condemn all citizens who do not trust you, and you must know that the voters of the Serbian Radical Party are the most honorable and honest voting body in Serbia. You'll see in the next election, you'll be punished by citizens for all that you're doing right now. It's true that you can do anything. You can open up polling stations abroad, normally where it suits you. Even Nebojsa Covic can tell you that the Cypriots in Kosovo also vote for your candidate. At the very end, I would like to call on the future prime minister to inform the president of the National Assembly that the state of Serbia does not have its president, that the president of the National Assembly should call the presidential elections in Serbia as soon as possible. I hope those elections win the best. The election will be won by Tomislav Nikolic. He's the best, and that's what the people in Serbia want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1068	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and the Messenger of Milet Poscuric after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on this general exposé, there is no concrete discussion of the government's intentions and plans or criticism. However, there is something that can be specifically discussed, and these are certain segments of this exposé, something that, in any case, we want to do or not, we need to bind to individual parties of this ruling coalition. In an exposé, the prime minister told us that one of the government's basic tasks would be to strengthen the community with Montenegro. We cannot predict with certainty how and how the mandater and his majority party will behave in future times, but what we can safely say is that one of the coalition partners or more specifically the leader of one of the coalition partners, one third of the coalition, clearly appeared in the public and in the pre-election campaign, and especially after the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, that this is the worst agreement he has ever seen in his life, and here as a member of the former government, he was saying that he was disgusted by the fact that even one such agreement could have been accepted and imposed by Solana. So it wouldn't be unclear, I'm talking about Miroljub Labus. Here from this pay phone, all of us and the public of Serbia have announced that he has been forced to sign the agreement. He is a man who, at that time, decidedly claimed that he would seek never to liven up to the agreement, because he is so cocky, harmful to Serbia. With sufficient certainty, we can say that this one-third will strive, implementing its pre-election programme, implementing the views expressed by their leader, that this agreement, or this link with Montenegro, will never be firm. As for the part about Kosovo and Metohija, the logic of things requires that the ruling coalition enters stable into all negotiations. The stability implies primarily general agreement on certain issues, particularly on the Kosovo and Metohija status issues. How, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you will ensure that stability, when you are already differing in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. Group G17 plus in the election campaign spoke, Kosovo's problem is being solved by selling it, taking a few billion dollars and removing misery from Serbia's door. Later, some members denied it. However, the denials never came out of the party's mouth. How, gentlemen, will you negotiate tomorrow with the international community's presence on the further fate of Kosovo, when you are conceptually different. Some advocate that Kosovo be in enclaves, and some advocate that Kosovo be sold, and some, for God's sake, say that Kosovo should not be in Serbia at the moment of the disappearance of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That's three different attitudes. In order to have a clear view, we Serbian radicals will always help you with negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. You will always have the support of the SRS, all those who advocate that Kosovo and Metohija are inalienable parts of Serbia. All those who advocate the opposite will have great rivals in the SRS, major political opponents. As for individual ministries, gentlemen, we must also pay attention to individuals, or personal solutions in those ministries. We cannot know how the MUP will behave in the future, because there is a new man, who is a member of the DSS, and for the first time now takes over such an important ministry. We can't even know how the Ministry of Science is going to do it, we can't criticize in advance, we can't condemn the actions of the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Administration. We cannot do enough of these ministries in advance to criticise, but we can safely argue that the Ministry of Finance, which is very important, that the Ministry of Agriculture, that all those ministries whose heads are now, according to this proposal, members of the G17, who have been active in power so far, are leading Serbia to fail. Here's how they're taking her. First, absolute control and power over monetary policy is in the grab of G17 plus. Now the total budget control is also under G17 plus control. You can't, gentlemen, now you can't talk about changing the attitude or programming of that parliamentary group. So far, we have witnessed the devastating monetary policy that, according to this proposal, the new finance minister has implemented. You know, it's full of ears of these stories that a stable dinar has reborn Serbia. What was that stable dinar based on? On an increase in production? On real material grounds? No, I don't. Something that's imaginary. Now it is revealed what is the background of such a large and huge foreign reserve that you have boasted about, gentlemen. Something in the world that's ashamed of, you're proud. When you talk about agriculture, then the biggest disaster in agriculture is the policy that G17 plus conducted. Miroljub Labus is a man who advocated and advocated continued liberal imports. You, gentlemen, have introduced this rule to import into this country all sorts of things, especially agricultural products that are not subject to any control. What, now, overnight, to believe you Serbia that you've turned. You haven't changed, gentlemen. You're a small group that listened to what the Democratic Party said yesterday. Now all you've done is get yourself into parliament by mistake. Let us radicals be glad to see the people, finally, who is the coalition partner to the DSS and you no longer have the right to blame anyone else. Now you're the biggest culprits. You are the largest of all MPs. You are the bearers of this authority. Tomorrow you won't be able to lie to Serbia and cheat, it's G17 plus, you have to put bills on the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1070	The People's Messenger Mileta Poscurica has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard yesterday Mr. Kostunica's pledoies and one of the grades he's given here and, of course, part of a group concentrated around this government structure is that this is how he overcomes another institutional crisis. The SRS would, of course, disagree with that, and possibly in the context of an institution's crisis as such. But of course, I have no doubt that the ministers will be in crisis, and especially that financial group around G17 plus. They won't feel the crisis. Whether Serbia will be out of crisis and with such a government a source of crisis is already a particular issue. We in the SRS don't think so. We're thinking because we heard about the exposé yesterday. We also think because we know that you, from such a constructed coalition, are simply in that genome, in that inherited material that you brought with you to the government, brought part of something bad from the previous one. You took what someone characterized here as JUL. There's no point in me talking about a party that's gone anymore, but it's a destructive activation that will eventually meet you and start biting on the inside. We've heard great praises, how in health care this group has shown exceptional effects. About that way. I'd like to return to the order Mr. Kostunica brought out yesterday in his pledoa. In a formal sense, though, he did stick to some logical order, though the poor and the poor came completely in the end. At first, it was about Kosovo and Metohija, and almost every radical mentioned it. I don't know what I would spectacularly say here, except the fact that if he relys on negotiating with UNMIK on Covic, it won't do him any good. We know that Covic has the resources he has, and we know that he himself admitted that he was neither Holkeri nor the current UNMIK representative. We know he's talked a few times about not listening to him, not respecting him. So there's no personal credibility. There is no particular credibility among the people. You saw, he went to the election alone and what he did. It is not a particularly large buckle that will help to balance with the international community, which must be negotiated. More niggers are if a solution for Kosovo is analyzed in advance, so before, for example, putting under one, implementation of Resolution 1244, so let's get a thousand soldiers and a thousand police officers back into the Serb enclaves, maybe that means something. Before you say it, it'll be tiger skin. In the event of an incident in Vojvodina, what the government's position will be, what the party's position is. Even so, we know what the DSS's position is, they've come forward about what's happening in the duchy parliament. As a result of the events in Subotica, a very wealthy man gathered so-called Autonomous parties to create some kind of anew idea that Baka and northern Vojvodina could look at some concept of a new move from Serbia or whatever their ideas are. They encourage the international community to think and talk about them in a different way. What organisations will be involved to help them bring this to a higher level, to the European Parliament? There are such organizations that will support the richest man of Vojvodina, you know everything there is in Hungary, what there is in Subotica itself, hundreds of hectares of complexes around the border, and such a man, of course, despite the fact that only a few days earlier they have brought in great laws that have allowed them to be brought in by the involvement of the authorities, despite being so-called. the minority, and they were minority, and they were small, and they wanted to move on. Whether the future government will have both institutional and personal credibility when, for example, it wants to negotiate problems in Kosovo, the problem of minorities in the European Parliament or other institutions, whether it will be able to represent the country's worthy interest. If he can do it without a strong institution like the president, I'm not quite sure. Could you, for example, raise the question of Hungarians in Transylvania, as our Hungarians constantly raise their status in Serbia. They create such organizations as they do and destabilise our internal political situation, which was talked about here, which is why I have to look back on it. Yesterday there was also talk of the state of our economy, agriculture, etc. I want to know what will happen to major financial institutions, significant important institutions, such as the EPS, the Oil Industry, whether they will only grow well, then sell or be something that we will keep as a strategic interest in staying in this country. How are we going to, say, put it in social trouble, even, rather unequal pay? Pay's not a social category. How to avoid such imbalances, which will be mechanisms, how we can develop so-called mechanisms. a healthy market economy and healthy competition, when anything is right or that could be sold has been sold and we are still thinking about something that might be sold. How the one who sells it will compete if we hear 70 percent of the sales today, and they don't work, those companies that are sold. Are we sure that those who buy our companies don't only create conditions for a market performance in this environment? Are we sure that by choosing, I'm going to go to the problem that I initially mentioned, by choosing an old/new health minister, we're just making a full hit. We've heard four laws, they've all repeated them, and those laws should be dealt with, let's do some of what I'm about to say, what's not good so far in our health care and health care system. Why didn't any of the speakers in that group look back on a fact I wouldn't even like to say, that bribery and corruption aren't just about the judiciary, so possibly for education in some small, low ways. Shall we share something, if it's corruption, in small and large? In healthcare, there are examples of extremely large corruption at different levels, from bribery, corruption, when a doctor himself drags his hand into the patient's pocket, to how our directors and health executives can do it. Great cooperation between our directors, they're real tender masters, with big pharmaceutical houses. Pharmaceutical lobby, you know how much this works with Serbia today. You know how tenders are made, you know that a lot of tendering procedures are because there's just a great deal, a lobby. It is impossible that nothing was known by the prime minister when he suggested that the same minister come back and conduct a good health policy. Do you know now, on the other hand, that in many centres in Serbia, the situation has led to absurdity, that the patient is leaving getting some kind of health care. For example, he must be participating the costs of his treatment. Such a decision was made by the Management Board of the Fund in 2001, but you know what tariffs are: ten times higher. Do you know that the categorization of services has been introduced, so they are divided into standard and non-standard. What does that mean? That's the minister's problem. It's not a problem, but it's the mayor's problem, because he doesn't know who he's setting up. That's why he should have asked the people he was with, if he should have put it like that. What do you mean by standard, off-standard? It's a clean lab analysis, magically placed in off-standard services, and then their price is extremely high. Let's say, the price of implanted material, an artificial hip, if someone installs it because of a degenerative disease, reaches 120,000 dinars. If traumatism is 90,000 dinars, someone's going to refund it. But there's a trap. If he signs, and many patients are forced to do, let's say the kobajagi donate that hip that they bought in a particular pharmacy, donate to the facility, and this one goes into social, no refund. You agreed to be a donor, a sponsor. Therefore, pay 120,000 artificial hip. Grafts, preparing patients for dialysis, is a mandatory form of treatment. How can it be charged to participate in expenses, to build a fistula, he lives beyond that, to install a graph. More nigger situation. If he can't get over a fistula, he lives off a graph. He has to buy this graph, in a particular pharmacy, so he socially admits to a certain price, and this second one doesn't admit it, because many of them have installed there, etc. These are all the problems that health will face. It's impossible the minister didn't know that by now. This is a very expensive institution, expensive for the state, but it looks expensive for a patient. Whether it stays that way or not, we have the right to suspect it will, because it's the same personal solution. We'll see how it goes. As far as education is concerned, we see that the law on primary, secondary education is actually being revised, and we welcome that decision. We don't know exactly how much we're going to rely on one system of education that's not bad. That Eastern European gave the world a Nobel Prize. Today, the Nobels of the world are also from Poland, Russia, those who had this very strong, powerful, institutional Eastern European education. What do we need models that we've seen and probably adapted to some other kind of American education? You know what our kids learn in elementary schools and kindergartens. I believe that, as the mandater has said, this will be improved and the laws in this respect will be amended. I've been talking for a long time, thank you, because I'm giving other radicals a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1072	The word of the Messenger of the people is Veroljub Arsic, and the next is the messenger of the people, Dr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of my colleagues said here that anyone involved in politics should get a chance to form a government. I don't think it's a chance for someone to form a government here, but someone to get a chance again after an extremely short period of time, out of only a few months, to take part in power again and exercise power. It is one of those problems that this government will face, regardless of the pre-election promise. I've been listening carefully to the Prime Minister's exposés, and I'd like to read to you a part of his exposé, which refers to how the old government behaves and how it's going to be new. This is about or precisely what it says: "The rule of law implies a decisive rejection and overcoming of legal volunteering and self-will, as well as a reckoning with a quasireform, but in fact a revolutionary understanding that the goal justifies the means, and that law and rule are the rights of obstacles and interference with reforms, not a necessary framework and a fruitful incentive in which reforms must take place." That's what Vojislav Kostunica said. After October 5th, Vojislav Kostunica was appointed president of the SRJ, took an oath and the first thing he did was break the federal constitution. He violated the federal constitution by demanding that the SRJ be admitted to the United Nations as a new member. This gave up the legal continuity of all former Yugoslavia and gave the legal basis to sue us for war damage both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In any case, it can be said that Vojislav Kostunica has denied himself and that the goal justifies the means. The violation of the Constitution of Vojislav Kostunica also comes down to the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter, as both are suspended in one unconstitutional way by the SRJ Constitution. Because it was someone's will. Not to mention that there has been a violation of the Constitution of the Belgrade Agreement, there is no signing of the president of the Republic of Serbia, who is the only one empowered to represent the Republic of Serbia. It is not the prime minister, nor the president of the SRJ, but only the president of the Republic of Serbia, whom we had, so what is it like. So, again, the target justifies the means. When it comes to The Hague, where the goal again justifies the means, I don't trust you, especially when it comes to the extradition of our citizens to that institution or call the court. The DSS is just one of the initiators of the Co-operation Law with The Hague tribunal. Supposedly, it must be arranged so that Ceda, Mihajlovic and Batic would not have to kidnap people from prison, but rather to be arrested by law and thus not be held responsible for what they did. Furthermore, when proposing the agenda, the SRSD proposal was rejected and the Law amending the Constitution, adopted by the previous Assembly, was put out of force again and with the sole will of the majority made up of the DSS. We don't expect these others who passed that law to put him out of force. And the Republic Constitutional Court has assessed the law as unconstitutional. How does Mr. Matar now think to convince us that he wants to uphold the Constitution and the law? When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, to remind you that Vojislav Kostunica, from an oligarchy of domestic politicians, has also urged Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, he gave legitimacy to a para-state assembly to decide and discuss what would happen to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and MPs -- Serbs who are there -- serve to vote against giving legality or to go to the funerals of killed Serbs. Also, Vojislav Kostunica violated both the Constitution and the law when he signed the apportionment for Fjora Brovina. Neither did he, and he was obliged to care for the preservation of the federal constitution and federal law, was not prevented, and 2,500 Albanian terrorists could be released from prison in Serbia. Let me remind you, and I will always talk about this speaker and always remind you a little, because you have some moral responsibility for one of those terrorists saying that he raped a nine-year-old girl and her mother just because they're Serbians, and then they were burned in the first crematorium after World War II. That's what you've been involved in, gentlemen. You'll always have a little moral responsibility. (President: I ask for a little courtesy with the MPs. ) Furthermore, there were also words about who voted for the Labour Act and who voted for the Privatisation Act and that only the Labour Act was to blame for the new half a million unemployed. I think that both laws are equally responsible for this, with the DSS voting in favour of the Privatisation Act, and that your coalition partner Miroljub Labus told the Labour Act, as you raised the issue of theft, that it is not important how the law was voted and passed, it is important that the reform is voted. Now I'm asking you how you think and who you think you blame in further work for all the problems and consequences you're going to have with such coalition partners. Since I don't have time, I could talk about your exposé for quite some time, I'd just like to say that Mr. Vojislav Kostunica has placed the social programme in the last or last place. It's around the sport somewhere. We all agree that the majority of the local population is on the verge of misery, that the current price of bread is 27 dinars, that the price will be over 50 dinars because there is no wheat, that bread is one of the basic living foods of the poorer layers of the population. I ask the question: is this new government considering making subsidies, or reducing the price of bread for such layers of the population? Finally, since this government is also made against the will of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because, gentlemen of the DSS, you are in a bad society, I am sure that there will not be a long time and that there will be no good results. I think some of you, especially those who are now getting, when that happens, should stop dealing with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1074	The People's Messenger, Dr. Paja Momcilov, has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1075	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Presidency, after two months of severe labor, was born to us also a government, an event that can certainly cheer up our population, because we finally have another important institution of government in Serbia, which is a doubtless fact. Here, we also managed to establish parliament before that. That must be one good news. However, such a long period for the creation and birth of such a government, called the minority government with the support of the SPS, gave immediate answers. We see from the exposé, which was proposed here, from the government's proposal, why birth pains lasted this long and why they were so difficult. With this birth of a child like this, we immediately noticed that this child was born with certain anomalies. I'm not going to say with the punishments, which would be a very difficult word, but surely there are anomalies. Many have already indicated in previous exhibitions what an anomaly is. It is a very heterogeneous group of both those who make up the government and those who support the government. Our fellow Socialists seem to have, in this act, at least the leadership of the party, picked up a metal once large and powerful SPS and wiped out the ideological features that adorned that party. But it's their legitimate right. We Serbian radicals don't worry about it at all, and we don't get angry. We point that out only for reasons to indicate what a conglomerate is that has now gathered around this government. I'd be free to present some features that can be attributed to the future government. First, it's a government of continuity, it's not a government of discontinuity at all. Who allows continuity? It is the first fighters of the October Revolution, today located by the political party G17 plus, here already many times mentioned Mr. Labus and Mr. Dinkic. We need to know that these once-experts, now political leaders aren't exactly the original political experts we should admire. These are the people who have plotted the direction and the ways in which this country's finances are being run. These are the people who have made it possible for the country's economic policy in Serbia over the past three years, which has produced the results we have today. So there's no dilemma, it's not their fault. Simply, they're controllers and executed an IMF order. I've got here, I'm not going to show it for sure, what you can all find on the Internet, on the IMF website, where we've been prescribed what we should do by 2005. So these are the experts who were the controllers and just their jag to have all the leverage of the financial authorities should be looked at in that light. Another feature of this government, in my opinion, can be seen immediately. It's a temporary government. Many also mocked unwarrantedly with Mr Velja Ilic and the Ministry of Capital Investment. It is clear that it is a reserve channel through which space for the government's reconstruction will be opened. After a month - two days we will realize that one man cannot manage such important industries as telecommunications, such as construction and traffic. It will be clear that there will be no large capital venture enough for the daily and very important work of these sectors, and here is the reason for the government to be reconstructed, then the entrance for DS, which is so angry that it is not already in that government. You'll be in that government, I hope, very soon. To finish my presentation, I'd like to say a few things about medicine. Since I'm a doctor, it makes sense for me to say something about it. It's not polite, and it's not appropriate for someone to be criticized before they're even on duty. But the honourable MPs of the G17 plus group have told us two different things here. First, a colleague came out and said that the health situation was catastrophic, which I agree with, and previously one colleague said results had already been achieved. Well, you see, that's where you're supposed to make a deal. The results, unfortunately, have not been reached. One of the examples you cited, that the Ministry was reconstructed, is precisely why Serbian radicals are deeply concerned and painful. The Serbian health ministry worked without a minister. Former members of the government, which will now be demystising by electing a new government, have admitted that it is least done in the health sector. In the ministry, when there was a minister, they were persons who would continue to sit in the Serbian government. What happened here? It's a typical example of how institutions and systems are destroyed. Serbia's health system, which was a good system, was destroyed. Which way? First of all, by decapitating, you don't have a minister. Secondly, the assistants are people who were brought into office by the ministry when they were 28 years old, and the biography says they were U.S.ID scholarships and that they were political leaders who received scholarships from the West. Go to the Ministry of Health website, if I'm wrong, you deny me. I'll also show you this data, which is correct. I'll have so much time. What's worrying? When Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, whose professional competence I would never question, was one of our top experts, a minister, what did he do in that reconstruction? He asked for help to get his side of the people to say that the ministry should look like. Eight people wrote this list here for two months that I hold in my hand and charge, I mean, $100,000, to tell him what parts a ministry needs to contain and how many people it takes to hire. That mind and that policy worry us, and that is why we are rightly concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1076	Thank you. Replica, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1077	I came out on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. I can understand, but I can't accept this much anxiety from fellow MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. They promised Serbia that they would be in power and not, so now they don't know how to explain it, so they shed crocodile tears over our fate. Don't take care of us. You're very nervous and there are rational reasons, but that SPS story doesn't drink water. And everything, like, doesn't matter to you that we support this government, but neither of you can go out for this assembly pay phone without getting us hooked up. You all care about our health. Oh, really, touching. No more, we're fine, thanks for asking. We're glad Serbia will get, hopefully, a good government. We're glad that the previous one will finally go back to history, where it belongs, and you'll consider why no one accepts your open calls. Try to explain it to your voters. I am convinced that Serbian citizens will know in the next elections that they appreciate our moves and the fact that we supported the Democratic Party of Serbia's candidate that the Assembly is being established and that we will give support to the minority government so that Serbia has a normal government, which will work in the interests of Serbian citizens. When you realize that, it'll be a lot easier for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1078	Thank you, too. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1079	Ladies and gentlemen, people's emissaries, by article 100, I've called to advertise. So, I didn't notice any anxiety with my party colleagues and friends. On the contrary, I looked very carefully and listened to Mr. Obradovic. There was anxiety on it, for reasons unknown to me. The man has become power again. No less voices, no less trust of the people, no less power. Then why are you worried about someone else? I think you've made everything you've ever wanted come true. Don't worry about the Serbian Radical Party. What concerns you is the fact that we have won, that we are convincingly most popular, that we are the best in Serbia and, too, the fact that we may not be as smart as you, maybe we are not as educated as you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1080	Please do not insult the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1081	... as Professor Angelkovic. I'm done, Mr. Markovic. The only thing I can tell you is that we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, regardless of the electoral will of the Serbian citizens, regardless of the fact that they gave us four times as much trust as they did to you, if they knew that you were going to act after the election, that would be 40 times the trust. And from some others, we got four times as many votes. You're in power too, so they're looking forward to it. You all have the right to rejoice. Tonight, make a cocktail here, look forward, be happy, we'll congratulate the newly elected prime minister, congratulate the members of the government, wish them success in their work, and from tomorrow we'll start to tear down that government, because we know that happiness and success for Serbia with that government is gone. Let me tell you something else, be sure, Serbian citizens are looking at this well and they know who they wanted in power. And they know why they didn't take any calls. Because if you're gonna tell me that the world didn't want us, and they wanted you, well, it's gonna be hard to convince me. There were other reasons for that. One more thing; in all of this, we will never boast, so that we can boast and lick and move forward – "we are implementing reforms in our party". We have implemented reforms in our party somewhere else in the establishment of the party and ended this. We have a democratic political organization, disciplined, best organized. You could see the other day at the vote, out of 82 SRS MPs, 82 were present. It's the power of Serbian radicals and all those who chose our party. (Chairman:Time, Mr. Wolfie. ) Don't worry, the citizens will know that they are evaluating us, and when they evaluate us, both you and us, you will be able to tell it to the MPs of the SRS, but not from this pay phone, but worse where these Novemberes are today, because you will not be in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1082	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic appeared, do not underestimate Mr. Vukic and Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1083	Please, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1084	Please, replica or according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1085	I'm not worried about you. You know exactly what you're doing, and you're about to explain to Serbia how you do it. You criticized the previous government, and most of you were in the media, which can't be an accident. Don't lecture us about things that are well seen, but the problem is that you take great care of our health, and I tell you – you don't have to, take care of yourself, take care of yourself. Let us go, Serbia will decide how it decides, but you should not care what our support will be among Serbian citizens. They know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1086	According to the Rules of Procedure, but no replicas, please. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Don't Dragane like that, you're the minister. I didn't hear. You're distracting your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not speak here of the health of the Members of the People's Parliament, nor do I think. It's natural to worry about the health of every colleague, friend, I don't see that something particularly bad, and it wouldn't be good to repeat it and say, "God, some are particularly smart, and others are stupid, some are healthy, and some are not healthy." I reckon everyone in this room is healthy and smart, chosen by the people, and I wouldn't insult my fellow MPs in that way. Just about one word, about the notorious lie that's being repeated here, which I heard yesterday from a speaker from the same political party...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1088	Mr. Wolf, I asked you not to lead the line, calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please state in which part, which part, where there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1089	I've already told you, as far as article 100 is concerned, so insulting address to MPs, but it's interesting that only when I go out for this pay phone, that I'm not able to answer a single sentence, and some don't even call on the Rules of Procedure, not even a member of the Rules of Procedure, say three minutes, it doesn't bother you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1090	And I've already warned others about it today, and I'm warning you, because it bothers me just as much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1091	Mr. Masician, I know that I'm in your way the most, believe me, nothing will change in that sense, except that you will bother the people even more, so you won't be able to abuse that pay phone temporarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1092	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1093	It is well known to Serbian citizens that today's agenda has failed to form a government that should provide political stability in Serbia by definition, because there are really difficult problems in Serbia and major issues to address. What they may be more interested in today is the answer to the question why this had to last longer than two months and what perspective it is. Everyone's worried about what's waiting for him tomorrow. We had the chance to hear a late speech yesterday that was not read in Orasc about the 200 years of Serbian statehood, we had the opportunity to hear a lot of nice words at the level of promises and ordinary political illusions. We had the opportunity to hear, for a wonderful miracle, and some concrete things, but devastating, to hear something concrete that should concern us all and to show us that today is the part of the attempt to create a government of dangerous intentions. With no candidate for president, I would not spend my time explaining how wrong he is on one side of his text that he read here when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. What he wrote, we can all say, don't let God accomplish it, because it's in deep contrast, and it's termological and conceptual, and with Resolution, both with annexes and with national interests. No one has given us the right in this assembly to talk about the core autonomy of the Serb community, even the international community's terminology accepted as that unfortunate Oliver Ivanovic. I don't want to make that part special, there's been a lot of speeches, but I'm going to let the citizens of Serbia know that you didn't put the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda. No problem was to put it as the third item of the agenda, so when you choose the government to continue with that agenda point and to let the citizens hear what you're preparing for Kosovo and Metohija. I must support those of my predecessors who have said that in this attempt to create a government goes so far as to create something impossible, because what will be a feature of this government is that it is made up of parties that do not essentially have profiled political programs, there is no ideology, but there is no joint program of what this government does and how it thinks it is exercising power in the Republic of Serbia. No, there's nothing concrete to be found, there's only a desire to provide 126 votes, and there's going to be those in the government who count as geometers to share cookies, to share power, to create and limit the attractions of their political and interest. It will be very simple for us in this assembly to bring down that government, because whenever it comes out here, it should be called Vojislav Kostunica and if something is wrong with traffic or in another resort. Why? He'll be guilty because he's the Prime Minister. The fact that you've agreed with each other so capital investments are run by New Serbia, so she's going to move her board here with the assistants, that's your thing, we don't care. Serbian citizens don't care. Serbian citizens for every problem and lack must call Vojislav Kyostunic, remind him of many things and how he swore allegiance to the SRJ and then broke his oath and disappeared the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as The Hague played the ninth hole, and became the first hole in the playing, and how its Jovan Rankovic was expelled from the government by Labus and Dinkic, and are now with Labus and Dinkic in the same government. He'll have to remind those he encouraged to go out to the streets and the bodies in July 2001 to defend his president, and when that man was kidnapped, he coldly said, "Well, I wasn't informed." That's how Serbia will pass, not to be told what's going on. I warn that there is this two without the helm, it's been working for a long time, and Djindjic noticed that, so he made Labus run for president, to finally fight them and it came out. You should know, dear MPs, that all the conditions offered here are directed by Miroljub Labus and they mean arrest, criminal charges and impoverishment of our brewery. That's what you should know. Those who preserved Miroljub Labus in the Federal Assembly regret it when his mistrust was to be passed. Those who preserved Mladjan Dinkic regretted that on December 12th or 19th of last year they finally filed the criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic's First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office against Mladjan Dinkic for armed incursion. Remember these affairs, in affairs someone won votes, came here to exercise power. The central question, and what is the bond of something that is unsustainable? The bond is a sponsor. It is very precise to say, between six and ten strong financial groups made it incompatible. You will soon see, between the Republic of Serbia's Bureau and the prime minister's advisers, there will be no principled difference, be aware. Especially be aware of those who feel that because of their hatred for the Democratic Party, you should support everything and everything. An even greater danger has prevailed over this. An interesting division has been made. The citizens of Serbia will feel it very soon. And by definition, it is known: some have seized financial power, control, put out of force everything that doesn't fit them and hold the bank; others we have solos about the Constitution and the institutions; and others only know that they say -- problems and results. That's what'll be ahead of us, new media manipulations and a new slip. How long? Until someone informs us. Iola, a serious politician, would not want to engage in a debate about what was written and presented to us as a programme of this future government. To remind all MPs, regardless of political commitment, we are the first dam to protect the Constitution. The constitution clearly states that the president, vice president and ministers should be elected today. You will be elected today by the president, one vice president and one minister. Furthermore, let me remind you, as acting president of the National Assembly, the president of the Republic's office has proposed a mandate, his party president, and the president of the party, as prime minister, has proposed the president of the Assembly and the acting president of the Republic for the Minister of Economy, and he is holding the presidency today, and it is being voted on. You no longer have the right to call Natasha Micic. She wouldn't allow it anyway. She allowed a lot of things, but she wouldn't allow it. At least she'd move out of that place. We will have very interesting situations in the continuation of this session and the existence of this government. So, the plot is known, you know which party holds which resistor and no one can object to it. If problems turn out, the settlement is expected, or will inform us that he is resigning, that the entire government is falling, but will not fail the government, there will be negotiations, there will be everything and everything. No cake is released, for those who did not pass the census or have joined some to enter the congregation have reached out for the cakes and not let go. They know this is their last. After this, it's gone. In Serbia, the truth can no longer be stopped. The Serb loves justice, the Serb will also defuse this prank that is in action. Say hello to your sponsors and remember only one thing - if you don't listen to them, they will bloodyly charge for what they have helped you and for putting you together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1094	Replica, Dragan Martian. Just a short replica. The rhetorical skill, the strength of the voice and the applause he followed cannot fill the void of ignorance. Read the Constitution, read the laws, and then talk about who's proposing who and what's being chosen here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have read the exposés of the prime minister for the composition of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like in a few sentences to refer to his presentation. On page 3, I quote: "The first and most serious problem in Kosovo and Metohija was and remains the issue of the return of Serb exiles to their homes and homeland." I don't think that's the first and the basic problem, and as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, I suggest that these problems be solved through solving the fate of the kidnapped and missing persons. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, death is very difficult, but kidnapping and years of searching for kidnapped and missing persons may be even more difficult than death itself. I remind you, gentlemen of the People's MPs, that our future prime minister in charge of the Cypriots, that at least so much they come out to meet him and help shed light on all these cases kidnapped and missing, because he, as president of Yugoslavia, freed about 2,000 Cypriot terrorists and criminals, whom the Serbian court sentenced to prison sentences. Secondly, it should work to protect the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. There are about 130,000 of us left, and we must have special treatment from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to succeed, despite abnormal conditions, unworthy of man's life, to maintain and survive in Kosovo and Metohija. The third is the creation of conditions for return, and above all I mean security, security, and it is possible only to realise through the forces of the military and police in Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs live, and then the point that is first in the mandate, and with me the fourth, the return of Serb exiles and displaced persons. In that same paragraph, the prime minister states, "It is understood that we cannot solve this problem without UNMIK." It must be co-operation with UNMIK, but in what way? Does he mean current practice and previous co-operation with UNMIK? Does he mean the Justice Agreement, does he mean the Kosovo Police Service Agreement? Does he mean an agreement on customs or this latest air space control agreement signed by Covic, Marija Raseta and the JAT director with UNMIK, and handed over to the Kosovo and Metohija Shiptari airspace. As the controller of all this will be the State of Iceland. It's the last deal signed with UNMIK. He may be referring to co-operation with UNMIK through the co-operation of his municipal board presidents. To remind him, the chairman of the municipal board of the Democratic Party of Serbia in Lipljana, Borisvoje Vignjevic, at a session of the Assembly of the Municipality, in which 15 Thaci's Shipara, 15 Rugovina Shipars, voted as 16 to form a Fund for the Defence of Fatmir Ljimijam, a villain who committed a major crime against the Serbian people. Fifteen Cypriots, Rugova's party, did not want to vote, but was therefore voted by a committee member at the Democratic Party of Serbia's Assembly, Borisvoje Vignjevic, the DSS president in Libya and a candidate for the MP. Does he mean co-operation as did Radojica Mitrovica, the president of the DSS in Pristina, and also a candidate for MPs in this parliament, when he voted as vice-president of the Pristina Municipal Assembly, the Cypriot Assembly, to move cattle markets from the city of Pristina and to Gazimestan. Such co-operation must stop, ladies and gentlemen, future rulers, because this problem cannot be solved like this and we cannot protect the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, you have a problem realising this with your coalition partners, and you can't because Labus is not interested in Kosovo and Metohija, and Mr Dinkic at one of his lectures in America, which he probably paid from the National Bank's funds, answered the question of an American student. First, "Mr. Governor, what do you think of Kosovo and Metohija"? He replied, "We leave Kosovo and Metohija to the Americans." And he said, "Why do you ask me that?" The student replied, "I ask you because my colleague is Serbian, so she made me ask you." That is what Mr Dinkic said and such politicians will certainly do nothing to make life easier and better for us, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. There is much to talk about, but since there are other fellow MPs who need to say something, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1098	The word is made by MP Goran Jocic, and after that, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is now clearly polarised to two political options: one is the Serbian Radical Party and the other so-called "Serb Party". A democratic block, divided into two groups -- DOS one and DOS two. Given the government's composition and the parties that will participate in the government, it is clear that we will get a government from another group, so-called The democratic bloc, or DOS two, and I hope that it will continue in the continuity of the policy of the previous government. The assembly majority voted a few days ago for the new Ministry Act, where it is seen exactly that the other vice-presidential posts are being abolished and that only one is being left to the new government. When we saw the government's personal composition, that Miroljub Labus, president of G17 plus, was proposed for this vice-presidential post, then it was clear to us that a vice-presidential post was for Kostunica to have strict control. The finance minister is proposed by Mladjan Dinkic, also vice-president of the G17 Plus political organisation, and the assembly council was appointed by the governor of the National Bank, who is also a senior official of the G17 Plus party. It makes it clear that the main word and that Serbia will be ruled by the G17 Plus political group. The government will be three, slow and inefficient. An exposé submitted by the mandater, as regards Kosovo and Metohija, says: "The essential autonomy of the Serb community in Kosovo implies territorial autonomy (sharing of entities, i.e. the cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija), as well as cultural and personal autonomy." Gentlemen, I would like to remind you that it is necessary to strictly stick to Resolution 1244, which gives little authority to our Serbs there, should be used in such a way as to succeed and create security for them, to restore the army and the police in that small number as necessary, but it is also important. Furthermore, as far as tax policy is concerned, the prime minister says: "I would like to stress first that it is not good that the state has burdened all those who work with high taxes. "The government will reduce the taxes on production." Ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning, the majority of the assembly did not show good faith and did not vote to be included in the agenda of the SRS proposal, and this was the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on taxes on use, keeping and bearing goods. It would be the first gesture of goodwill to take place with what the prime minister in the exposé carried out at the beginning. It goes on to say, "Serbia can and must not only ensure a reliable supply of electricity, but also be an exporter of electricity, which is wanted and expensive goods in Europe. As soon as possible, an analysis of investments in new power generation capacities will be carried out." Wherever the word "investment" is mentioned there is G17 plus, and where the G17 plus there are various affairs, from the National Savings Bank to the imports of electricity. Why was the parliamentary group, one of the newly formed coalition, abstained from voting for the establishment of a polling committee proposed by the SRS, to form a polling committee and thus to review the abuses of imports of electricity and various banking-mafia businesses. As for health care, it is said that our health system has long been in a particularly poor material situation, and the consequences of such a condition are evident in everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's known there's a so-called health care facility in certain health institutions. Health Mafia, in particular. So the director round himself gathers one elite and does what he wants, and you have an example of it, which is the House of Health in Nis. It is further said: "As one of the fundamental pillars of the state, education must take its place as a driving force that allows the entire society to progress. In this business we must take care of our national and cultural personality, both part and specificity of existing institutions." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you that the previous Government has passed some rule, Rules of Procedure, Law, whatever, that children who are in primary schools, that their plan and work programme should be amended. In this way, children are impossible to make progress, and in 10 to 15 years, these children will be the dull workforce of various multinational companies, which are now spreading to our country. Therefore, I think the new government should have a little more hearing about this issue and at least work more on that field. I think it would be one big success of the new government if it were addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1100	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1101	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in the early 19th century, Serbia had a great goal, Serbia wanted a state, wanted freedom, Serbs fought to free themselves from slavery. Today, at the beginning of the 21st century, the prime minister for the government's composition wonders in the first sentence, what Serbia is asking of us. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the great cause is gone. Today, every average Serbian citizen wonders how to survive, how a month to provide bread to his children, how to pay for electricity, heating, municipal costs, how to educate children, how to treat, how to pay for everything that is extremely expensive today, and without which it cannot live. No one thinks about flying anymore, wintering, getting new cars or anything like that, no one else but those few privileged people. We have recently heard from the previous government that it is better and better to live in Serbia. Only, unfortunately, they failed to explain it to the citizens of Serbia or Serbian citizens. I'm telling you that what we need to ask this government is, first of all, to provide bread and the rest necessary for the lives of Serbian citizens. The future prime minister in the exposé tells us: "I would like to stress first that it is not good that the state has burdened all those who work with high taxes. I mean, there's about 950,000 people out of work today, and a number of indicators are talking about surplus workers in many businesses. Production continues to fall." That's what the prime minister in the exposé says. So he recognizes that the state has introduced too many taxes and we agree that the state has burdened all its citizens; we agree. It means that the economy is unable to withstand the imposed burdens, so that's where we agree. As the prime minister speaks of something, we expect the reduction of these burdens and those obligations to be easier to breathe. However, the assembly majority composed of members of the SPS, DSS, NS, SPI and G17 already in the beginning rejects proposals of the SRS law in which numerous obligations, few times numbered, will be abolished, and even the famous Law on Holding and Carrying Weapons, as already called, the Law on Legalisation, which represents a terrible robbery of Serbia and Serbian citizens, the Law on Financial transaction taxes, etc. You haven't shown good faith or perhaps you won't follow the Prime Minister's demands, or perhaps the Prime Minister wasn't informed that you thought otherwise, but rather what he suggested in his exposé. The prime minister says that this movement, and referring to Serbia's future movement, could continue. "Serbia today must first resolve its state status, which has been questioned by the fact that in the work of its territory, Kosovo and Metohija, there is not our authority, but the rule of the international community." And how do we solve it and expect the new government to solve it? Some advocate for the Serbia-Montenegro community, others do not care about that. They say, "Let it be an independent Serbia." One would want Kosovo to remain as defined by the Constitution, composed of Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro, and the other would be sufficient for Serbia without both Kosovo and Metohija. Among other things, 82 SRS MPs will not support the new cabinet's proposal. The government has not come forward and will not come out of the electoral will of the citizens. It is clear in the elections, Serbian citizens have made it clear what kind of government they want and who they want in the government. Of course, we have no anger, no anger. Radicals can wait, and the question is whether Serbia can wait. We will not support this government and because we are absolutely certain that it will not make a significant contribution in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against mobsters, and especially not against those who have automatically conquered police stations, the People's Bank, businesses, burned down the Assembly, television; it will not be dealt with by the energy and financial mafia. No such thing, ladies and gentlemen, no such criminal charge, no improvement without those people wanted. Only they have the mandate and they have the courage, because most of the Serbian voting body is behind them, to do so in the best way. There is no real government and no improvement in Serbia without the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1102	The People's MP Branislav Rankic has the word, followed by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one sentence from this exhibition of candidates for Prime Minister has drawn my attention in particular. Some MPs before me mentioned something about it. It is about restructuring the economy, which primarily refers to restructuring major economic systems. I come from Borsky County, or Bora, in particular, whose territory has at least three major economic systems. Some of them are already in the restructuring phase, some are already at the end of restructuring in DOS mode, and some are still awaiting a process. First of all, it's some kind of new business organization of these companies. They went in order - the mining-topic base Bor, which belongs to the copper mine in Majdanpek, the chemical products industry in Prahovo near Negotina and the FI hydropower system of the Đerdap one and two in Kladovo. Since the mandater promises to continue the restructuring process, we must say on the case of the Mining-Topionary base Bor that the process has already been carried out by the previous government. Namely, the government appointed in Bora the famous Immobilia Kolesar as the chairman of the Management Board of the Mining-Topionary Basency Bor, who has gathered a particular expert team around him for restructuring purposes. Otherwise, the experts in Serbia who were promoted by DOS were those young people, who usually had no working experience and who jumped out of short pants, tied ties, and with great noise flew into our business systems and only their arrogance, behind which the great power stood, managed to suppress a large number of professional and competent people, who spent 20 and 30 years running large economic systems, to withdraw from one such accident. In doing so, the only quality available to these experts was in most cases knowledge of English language and knowledge of computer work. I'll draw attention to you that in all countries of the world, including us, it's mostly achieved in various courses, not at any serious schools or colleges. The prime minister promises to continue the reconstruction, or restructuring of the economy, but earlier in the next sentence says - a careful analysis of the situation will be done first in each industrial sector. Given that the majority of citizens in Serbia know the energy of the prime minister, we think a careful analysis of the situation may take years, it will surely outlive this government. If the honest government, which I see will be formed, had the intention to tackle the major economic problems in which our country is located, they would already have prepared programmes, they would not have just done a state analysis, because they also had a shadow government that had time for this work in the shadows, to create certain programs. To know what I'm talking about, I'm going to show you what an SRS program looks like. This is a study of opportunities, which must be done previously under the Mining Act, and this is your Long-term programme of production and processing of ore and production of copper concentrates with revitalization, reconstruction of the plant in the copper mines Bor, for the period from 2003 to 2012. Here you will see all the necessary tables with all the analyses of the situation, in which the restructuring of the economy is carried out and how can you, gentlemen, if you are really interested in leading Serbia to a better path, how can you do it. This is just one of the programs the SRS has behind which are extremely capable people. One of these programs is the opening of a phosphate mine in Lissina near Bosilegrad. Your MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia has been sent in part to those programmes. One of these programmes is the launch of production in the Prahova Chemical Products Industry, primarily using this phosphate mine that should be opened in Bosilegrad, so as not to be import-dependent on this raw material. Otherwise, this sentence - that a careful analysis of the situation will be carried out in every industrial sector - was firstly transferred from the textbook and the introductory part of the textbook, thus showing that it is general and that the government has no real intention to address the problem. Namely, in all the textbooks of the organisation of work, and they are taught as a secondary subject, not in this sense a secondary one, but as an object that is not professional within the largest number of technical colleges. It is said there, and every peasant in Serbia knows that if you have a problem before you should see it, see what it is and decide how you will solve it and solve it. Otherwise, to be totally demagogue, these are the members of the DSS at the local level used this sentence, as their party position during the December election campaign last year. I am sorry that there is no candidate for Prime Minister Mr. Kostunica here right now, but I would like to personally ask him if he has been informed that news has been spreading in Timočko for several weeks now that nuclear waste is planning to be moved from the Institute of Vinci, above all to the former uranium mine in Kalna near Književec, and then to the chemical plant in Prahovo, which is why the citizens are very upset. If there is any information about it, and I see that you will choose it, it should recommend within no longer than seven days to the citizens of Timočka krajina whether to move or stay there. I would only mention the Ministry of Finance, since last time I was misunderstood when I spoke about what the production of gold has to do with the National Bank of Serbia, and then the governor was Mladjan Dinkic, whom you are proposing as finance minister, I will explain once again. In a particularly regulated way, the gold produced in the plants of the Mining-Topionist Basena Bor was bought by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Later, after October 5, 2000, that is, since October 2000, none of those in Bor know how much was produced or what was happening to that gold.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1104	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and after that, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we waited two months to propose the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, the future Prime Minister, who you are likely to vote today with the will of the majority, which you somehow managed to close, submit to the exposés and present to the citizens of Serbia a government programme that hopefully won't last long. The parliament's proposal to form a minority government, a government in which political parties who are naturally and according to the programme on the diametrically opposite programme objectives, will not do Serbia any good. The exposés you put together and filed yesterday were drawn up in a similar way as a wish list that has no clear goal. The future Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's statement reminded me of his exposure when he was inaugurated as SRJ president. It's very interesting his effect as a statesman. The proposal to form a minority government, which was submitted to the National Assembly, shows the desire of a future prime minister to run away from responsibility, which is the basis for facing accumulated problems and issues left by the previous DS-led government. Serbia today faces major commitments and issues that are of national and state importance and are not resolved. The first question is Kosovo and Metohija. The exposé of the future prime minister is cited and envisions the division of entities, i.e. the cantonisation of Kosovo and Metohija. What is fundamental is that every future government should be vigorously and offensively in international institutions, and above all in the United Nations, insists on applying United Nations Resolution 1244, to return our army and police to Kosovo and Metohija. That's the basic thing to do. The issue of Serbia-Montenegro's common state, which will come to be resolved during the next period; accumulated problems in the economic and social sphere; the issue of functioning of the monetary system of the common state. First we had to choose the government, then choose the governor of the NBS. Here are some order of moves that are clear to me and the MPs of the SRS, I hope that all citizens of Serbia are also clear. In particular, the issue of start-up of production, problem-solving in health care, education, culture and sports is an important issue. Of course, if we're talking about privatisation, unemployment, you're saying in the exposé that there are 950,000 unemployed citizens. Development and reform in the traffic and rail systems, crime management, and in particular the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. If one of you thinks that the minority government is going to solve these issues, I don't think it will be able to solve it for long, because Serbian citizens did not vote for the minority government on December 28th, they voted for a stable government that will deal with all these problems that I have listed and are in the exposé, the truth lined up as a list and nothing further, without a clear concept, without a deadline when it will be done. I will also remind you of this, while he was president of the SRJ, future Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica insisted that our Serbs go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. With his authority, he gave the rights to the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija, and later formed an illegal parliament. So Vojislav Kostunica's authority on the matter went to the Shiptars, who now have an open path to take the first step towards secession. Now the exposé mentions this cantonization. It's just amazing what we have here as a future government program. We need the government to make a great effort in these international institutions to implement Resolution 1244. What is particularly important, the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj were never ready to compromise when the issue of the survival of the state and the protection of the fundamental national interests of the Serb people, from the state and national aspects and interests of Serbian citizens. The majority government of the SRS and DSS was the only government that would guarantee Serbia the stability of the state and citizens. I must express regret that Vojislav Kostunica did not accept the SRS' offer to form a stable government. The citizens voted for a stable majority government on December 28th. That's when they believed you. I think, like all colleagues from the SRS, that you've missed a historic chance to correct all the mistakes you've made as president of the SRJ. Serbian citizens did not vote for the DSS on December 28th, so that the same ones that led us to the system's institutions crisis would remain in power. So the minority government is a government of compromise, blackmail, pressure, consent, which Serbian citizens certainly did not vote for. Why the minority government? Because you are not ready to accept the responsibility of the historic moment in which Serbia is today. That's why in the next election, citizens will punish you severely. You can be sure now that the SRS will win the assembly majority and power in Serbia in the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1106	The word has Nemanja Sarovic, then Ostova Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the exposé of the Serbian Prime Minister, who has been presented to us, is extremely difficult to discuss, because in order to discuss something, you need to have something concrete, something concrete and specific ahead of you. Although the exposé extends to as many as 15 pages, little can be called concrete and specific. In fact, this isn't about the future government program, it's about the list of good wishes. As if the prime minister went for the first step to court everyone, by telling them exactly what they want to hear: all injustices will be corrected, institutions built, the rule of law established, Serbia will be introduced to Europe, corruption expelled, and, as the prime minister says, the large one, because the small one can probably remain, taxes will be reduced, privatisation fair, employment higher, standard higher, will be invested in the village, electricity, traffic, culture, health care, justice etc. There's a lot of it written down, but there's a little bit of it said. I think the prime minister revealed his real intentions to us when he said he didn't purposely put deadlines and figures in the exhibits, because he says, "The numbers are dangerous, they can seduce, and someone can remind you of them." It's so much easier this way, you just say it - we'll be very good when someone asks when it's going to be, you say it slowly, it's going to be. If the government's programme wasn't serious, it also tells us that after two months of trying to figure out what kind of majority, the programme was written for a day or two, although it is a very broad coalition with heterogeneous programs, which clearly shows that the stumbling block was not a government programme, but the distribution of the resistor. I'm also surprised by the criticism that the prime minister has been referring to in the last three years, as if he's not carrying any responsibility for it. He says they weren't in the government. I ask him, where were they? I'm sure they're not in opposition. There was an SRS in the opposition. And while you were sleeping your many years of sleep, we destroyed that government, and it was you who had already done so with your own proverbial incompetence and indecisiveness that allowed it to last as long as it lasted. The prime minister tells us that the country's debt has reached $14 billion. He also proposed to Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, who served as minister of economic relations with abroad for three years. Not long ago, champagne was opened, cakes were cut at airports, two-thirds of our debts were forgiven, so the question is, was this debt $45 billion, or was it all about forgiveness just a farce? We are promised by the mandater and the political neutral Ministry of the Interior, which will take care of essential national interests, which is an original solution that does not know the parallel practice and an interesting way of building institutions. The question of who and how will assess the fundamental national interests within the Ministry of the Interior is raised. You don't have to do that to the M.O.P. There's a parliament for that. One of the few things that will not be the government's priority is co-operation with The Hague. Although experience teaches us that it does not have to mean anything, they say, it will seek to provide adequate assistance to all our citizens. It's just not enough. There he is tried by the political and state summit of this country. It's not about individualizing, it's about collecting guilt. Every serious government must think not only about billions of dollars of compensation that we will pay if they are eventually convicted, but also about the brand of genocide and the criminal people, which future generations will have to bear. That is why we must provide the defendant with all necessary assistance, not raise awareness of Serbia's role in the prison in which the mandater says he will serve his sentences, even though it would have to be clear as a lawyer, he would have to know that the prison sentence is being maintained in us and is not serving. The prime minister in the exposé and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro touched; he says, it is not functional. The last time he handled the situation, we even got that dysfunctional community. Only then was the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the formation of such a quasi-Community presented to us as the great success of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the great statesman Vojislav Kostunica at its helm. In the end, I would say that Vojislav Kostunica was condemned to experience the fate of many who promised everything, which is to do nothing. Because when someone says everything is a priority, then citizens need to know that it's just a nice way to say that priority, actually, isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1108	The People's MP Osto Stojanovic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1109	Ladies and gentlemen, I am Ostova Stojanovic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party. I'm from Valjev. I only have two three words to tell you about Valyev. It's the saddest thing from the city. The Krusik, which was a giant military production, "Serbian", "City", "Elind", "The Kozara" and not to count the others, no one does anything. It's just that Valjevo, gentlemen, is a dead city. This government, gentlemen, is a big con from the citizens of Serbia. Citizens of Serbia gave the most votes to the SRS, noting that the SRS together with the Democratic Party of Serbia will form a government. The prime minister's exposé promised to find the perpetrators of the crime before and after October 5th. Of that, my dear gentlemen, there is nothing. Before October 5th, Milosevic's power of badges separated power from crime. Among them was Homeland Security. I'm not talking about a democratic block. I'm talking about Homeland Security. Criminals were separated from power, but they ended up doing big dirty work for the government, which many of us here felt on our skin. After October 5th, organised crime directly intervened in power and the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic took place. For me as a man, Djindjic is very sorry, even though we were political opponents. I feel sorry for every man and every Serb. I'm sorry, too, Djindjic. Look what the judiciary has done. It's made a real farce since this trial. It will come to this point that all criminals who have been captured will be declared protected witnesses and out of there will remain small Borania, and eventually it will turn out that Mr. Zoran Djindjic committed suicide. This is where Prime Minister Vojvodina didn't even mention it. Vojvodina, gentlemen, is slowly slipping towards Kosovo's status. If something is not done urgently in the Vojvodina case, Vojvodina will come to the same place as Kosovo did. The village was mentioned very little. The country's households are down, gone. No one thinks anything about the village. She didn't think about the village, she didn't think about it, she didn't think about it. The peasants only need them when they need to vote for this power. It is fortunate that the presidential election is nearing, so Mr Tomislav Nikolic will win in these elections. Then there will be control of your authority and control of the government of your ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1110	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić, and the last registered MP, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join a large number of Members of our parliamentary group, who have assessed the exposure of the future prime minister as excessively general and declarative and without a clear vision of solving the accumulated problems in our country. It is precisely because of these very accumulated problems, due to the poor conduct of the past government, that there is great anxiety and concern for the citizens of Serbia for the state of our country and for the perspective. For these reasons, I have expected, and I hope a large number of you, that the mandater will present clearer goals and definitions of the future government in resolving the most important and burning issues for this country, and above all with the aim of restoring confidence in the institutions of the site and government. Unfortunately, however, we couldn't recognize it from the underlying exposé. Furthermore, what I'm trying to say, since I come from Vojvodina, it is incomprehensible to me that there is no mention in the exposé of the current political situation in Vojvodina and the eclative separatism of illegal, above all, political oligarchy, which wants to internationalise the situation and bring this country into new problems. I think it was the mandater's duty to, at least in a few words, look at the situation and tell us what the visions of the government are in solving these problems. We think that the key way to resolve is to find an opportunity to discuss new parliamentary elections as soon as possible and to elect legitimate authorities in Vojvodina. Furthermore, what I would refer to specifically, is part of the exposé relating to the argar. Gentlemen, some of your newly formed coalitions during pre-election activities have promised citizens that they will increase the agrarian budget, even three times, which I think anyone who is related to agriculture and the village can welcome. However, in the exposé of the future prime minister, there is not a word about it by asking whether these promises have dropped or at the very least will be revised. It is certainly good for the future government to protect our agriculture by certain customs measures. It is unacceptable and inadmissible to import in this country agricultural products in our country in surpluses, primarily certain agricultural products, fruit or meat; in a country that has been recognised for exporting these goods, we import them. So we expect the government to stop that trend and that trade lobby. The chairman, please, may you warn the MPs that they have a basic respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1112	I'm joining your plea.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1113	Please, all these days I have kept my mouth shut and listened to all the MPs, I hope to be offended and heard. Certainly by these customs measures, the future government cannot protect agricultural production, but rather by the measures promised, and above all we ask this government to provide favourable loans, favourable subsidies for agricultural production, further, guaranteed prices and certainly to affect our policy by increasing the quality of our agricultural products, which will allow us to go to the world market, primarily the European Union market and other markets. Unfortunately, nothing more or more concrete is said about it, although we are aware that agriculture is one of the most important, significant resources. Furthermore, what I expect from the government, which has not been done in the past time period, is the adoption of new and harmonisation of existing legislation in the area of agriculture, as it is known that several tens of thousands of regulations need to be brought into line in the area of agriculture so that they can be exported to the world market and that they can be competitive. In the past few years, no new legislation has been passed, nor have there been more significant alignments. This government is expected to do so, and nothing more concrete on the subject is said in the exposé. Furthermore, what I'm saying is that I absolutely support it, and I hope that this new government will fulfill it, that it definitely clears up the sugar affair, because it's brought a big spot to our country, has brought big problems to our food industry and ultimately has a very negative impact on the wartime production of a significant culture like sugar tail. Because there is no increase in the production and planting of sugar beet without exporting sugar, and the fact that we had preferential conditions simply ruined irresponsiblely and should certainly be cleared up and clear to the people and citizens of Serbia to tell them who is to blame. In the end, let me say a few words, and it's about the field of science. The new government must certainly do much more to provide more resources for investment in scientific research and retaining young people and perspectives in our country, because this is the only future of our country, that young people do not go abroad, but stay here, study in our institutions and allow them to explore our scientific research institutions. I expect the government to do more than the previous government on this plan, to pass as soon as possible a new law on scientific research activity, which will allow the right way to resolve the status of scientific research institutions, to enter into the right ownership transfumation. As the government will work, citizens will judge, and we MPs, above all I think of us from the opposition, I hope for the next 100 days that we will have the right to hear the exposés of the results achieved. If you fail to deliver on the promises, I think that we will have absolutely, morally and every other right to seek your recall and remand, and the MPs of the SRS will certainly do so, because this formation of the government is also past the will of the citizens, but we accept the fact that it is not the first time that the will of the citizens has been done and that, hopefully, you will make the bills, first of all, to the MPs of the SRS and the citizens who voted for the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1114	The last registered MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1115	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected students of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, the SRS will vote against the election of this kind of government of the Republic of Serbia and, regardless of the fact that we have received the most convincing trust of Serbian citizens in previous parliamentary elections, we will be an opposition in the coming period. We hope for Serbia, and we expect objectively and because of the opportunities in it, that the government's mandate will be brief, that we will get a better government as soon as possible, which will essentially represent the interests of the people and citizens of Serbia. We listened in this National Assembly, at least we more experienced MPs, more exposés of mandates of different political ideas and political profiles, and all these exposés resembled each other. It's always been a list of good wishes, so I can't even say for this exposé that some sphere of social life has been forgotten, that something isn't mentioned in a nice way that should be introduced to citizens or MPs, and it reminds more or less of some pre-election flyer that we should like voters and what should happen if we win. This is where we expected the implementation of a serious political, economic and social programme. We couldn't hear that, we couldn't hear much about it even in later further explanations of those who support such a government and its program. The prime minister said soon, obviously bearing in mind the newly established parliamentary majority, the president of Serbia, is somehow closer to me than the prime minister, that one of the most important issues, the hot issues the government of the Republic of Serbia will face will be the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. He did something he shouldn't have done, and he shouldn't have done it. Namely, Serbian Radical Party MP groups have already submitted a motion for a resolution as a general act to this assembly for adoption. We wanted to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We wanted to talk about, to accept all your additions to this text, to see what it is that can change, to see what it is that we can agree together, how and how we can achieve national and political consensus. Unfortunately, without a parliamentary debate, without agreement, I am certain even with the assembly majority, and particularly without agreement with all political entities, Mr Kostunica said the situation in Kosovo and Metohija should appear, which is even directly opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the country's highest legal act. Where does it say in our country's Constitution that we have entities in Kosovo and Metohija, cantonisation, or what should be the essential autonomy of the Serb community? I'll tell you, since I have a little bit more time than my colleagues, I can take advantage of that opportunity to point out one big mistake we've made in the past. Back in 1994, the lawyers knew that, I read the archives and restored that knowledge, Lord Karington came to Serbia and came up with a term that became an evil fate for the Serb people in this area. It's a national community term. He was the first to strengthen him by speaking about Kosovo and Metohija. We knew clearly who the people were and who the national minorities were. Karington said -- no more people, no more Serbs, no more national minorities, Albanians, you are all national communities, but we will separately observe Kosovo's and Metohija's territory. We from the Serbian Radical Party pointed to then state leadership and later to the top of the state government not to accept such a kind of fraud, because it is not only a language, it is not only a formal one, but a fundamental, legal and political fraud. Later, we came to the fact that slowly this term of the national community, accepted for everything, was turned around, just as Mr Kostunica spoke about, that they were the majority people in Kosovo and Metohija, as if it were a special state, a state separate from Serbia or from Serbia-Montenegro. I'm not saying it was his intention, and we're a minority people, who need to be provided with essential autonomy within Kosovo and Metohija. It's something you can't accept. We're a people, they're a national minority. Of course, we cannot expect this problem to be solved in these frameworks and in accordance with these standards thanks to the controls that are being implemented today in Kosovo and Metohija. The international community, i.e. the United States and their satellites, but in any case, this should not have appeared in an exposé, nor in exposing someone who calls for legalism, respect for the legal norms, without talking about the national interests of the Serbian people, which were not set up in the highest legislative body, but was merely declared by the Prime Minister. No matter how much support he has, he should never, in such a way, go public and declare it a key goal of his government. By the way, as for Kosovo and Metohija, he had to consult before this with that political party that is consistent and the only representative of the interest of the Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija. It's not this fiction of the "Return" Coalition, where it's expensive hill-downs, that one day they say when they kill several Serbs -- we don't want to go to Ibrahim Rugova's Assembly, Nedjad Daci and Bajram Rexhepi, so the next day they're going there again, I guess to get the diaries, I don't know what else they're for, because they don't represent anyone. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija represent the Serbian Radical Party, as five last elections were won by its candidates and its parliamentary list. That's why the prime minister or candidate for Prime Minister had to see what those people think, what Serbs think about whether it's their solution or whether it's Oliver Ivanovic's proposal. If this is Oliver Ivanovic's proposal, it represents no one in Kosovo and Metohija, except for the family's ropes. He says a candidate for Prime Minister should be reconsidered and seen, to consider how the current privatisation process was conducted, whether it can be improved and whether there is evidence of shortcomings. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and parliamentary groups representing the assembly majority have refused to vote for the law on amendments to the Privatisation Act to be put on the agenda by emergency procedure. We hardly had much more urgent and much more important jobs at the moment. Also, in a work that speaks of refugees and the tragic fate of our people, of a large number of people who had to leave their hearths, the candidate for Prime Minister says they should be facilitated by legalising their built-up facilities. That's right. We have proposed this law, we have proposed a law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, but it has not come to the agenda of this session thanks to the parliamentary majority, thanks to the Democratic Party of Serbia, among other political parties. What is seen as a problem and as something that is not right in the entire system of the proposed government and is not working is something that has been little pointed at, and so on. the vertical structure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you noted, the SRS MPs did not want ad personam to criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia. We didn't want to talk about personalities. It's a selection of mandates. He creates his team, a team of people he thinks will best lead Serbia. It's a good thing there's no more fake experts. Now we know that there are no more experts in this government, the alleged or self-proclaimed expert, whatever you want. They're mostly party people and we're not going any further into that composition. There's no control over vertical structure, not even your interparty. So whoever gets his ministry or several united ministries, it's his ban, and no one's living in it for a living. The finance ministry has no deputy or assistant from another political party. It is his and no one else can say a single word, nor will it be at least formal controls, except for the control parliament will naturally carry out in every way. It seems to me that this shows that the prime minister was primarily in charge of the distribution of interest areas within the new government. I don't know, and I don't think he longed for it that much, and I'd rather say that these are political parties that enter the government wanted in a certain way to have untouchable spheres of social life that they would manage and manage, in which no one would be able to interfere, in which no one would be able to touch and in such a way to do what they wanted, how much they wanted. I must warn you that there will be a lot of problems, because those who once had experience with executive power must know that the budget is never executed 100%, that those ministries that execute it with over 70% can boast that they have been in good relations with the finance minister. Because it does not decide on its money exclusively by the minister of justice, the minister of the interior or the minister of culture. On the contrary, he consults and asks for that money, and the question is how much can be charged and obtained from the finance minister. With this distribution, it will be a big problem for such programmes to come true, and especially because it seems to me that huge financial power is concentrated in the hands of one political party, one of the political parties that has reduced its core function to controlling the financial flows, controlling the flow of money, and for everyone else is not particularly interested. This is where the candidate for Prime Minister advocates an independent judiciary, an independent judiciary. It was also meant to be advocated by the independent prosecution as a special part of the judiciary, because there we had the biggest problems in the previous period and what happened to us in 2000 and 2001, and even in 2002, when one of the ministers came, did Bozidar Djelic, whether anyone else and said-- against this one I filed, even if it was a completely idiotic, criminal application. The prosecution is immediately available and says, yes, we are immediately pressing charges because one of the ministers told us because one of the executives told us so. As long as they react together or in the same way and act as executive authority, the prosecution and the judiciary, we won't have anything from the judicial system, which we have today. I know it'll be a problem to face, and we'll see if he can be solved. When you pursue the bearers of the previous government for possible crimes, I urge you to prosecute them for what they really are, for what they really did, and not for the fact that you're going to be able to hold a press conference, attack the previous government, and say that you're good and they're bad. That's what we heard in 2000 and 2001. We've heard a lot of things about it. I'd say we killed who knows how many people, if we didn't know what we did and eventually none of it. None of that, because it was all for cheap marketing promotion, because it was all one cheap trick, nothing but occupying television channels, occupying the public's attention and getting cheap political points. This attention took a short while, and these cheaply earned political points took a short while. As you can see, the people are asking for more to live better. That's exactly what I'd say is the biggest lack of what the candidate for Prime Minister was talking about here. I can't talk about visions, I can't talk about concrete programs, I don't know, I'm not a visionary and I don't think there's a visionary, although many in Serbia's political scene are trying to portray themselves as visionaries. I must say that what we expected here is that the citizens of Serbia will live better, as well as in what way. The fact that there's no good privatisation, the way it's being conducted, we knew. The fact that the judiciary wasn't right, we knew. How will people live better? We also know how much we owe each other. We know how much we've been in debt since the establishment of DOS, we know who ran that borrowing policy, debt slavery policy. Professor Florist says the G17-led debt slavery policy, and this is a statement six months ago, will destroy Serbia. We agree with that statement. After criticising the opposition MPs, he left and did not want to take part in the dirty work. Has anything changed in that policy? These same people are due today to run Serbian finances and again need to lead the borrowing policy further. What are we going to pay that money back from? Of which, when next year we're supposed to return about $800 million to the annual level. From which we will return, when there is no production anywhere, there is no new factory in Serbia, there is no new production plant, there is no excess value, there is no profit. Is there a program for that? I'll build a highway; of which, of which money, I don't know. How am I gonna pay my pensions at the same time, I don't know. How and how the budget is going to be made, whether it's going to be developmental or social, we've heard little or almost nothing. At the same time, I would say that what we used to listen to and what we could agree on until six months ago, as some people from the economic part of the DSS team said, is no longer valid today. What about Professor Rankovic? What about the one who had to leave the Federal Finance Minister's post, just because he didn't agree with G17's execution policy. Has something changed here today, or is it possible that they will change their policies because they have become better overnight or suddenly? On the part of our country's territory lately and unfortunately, with the support of some who today are the government, and from tonight it will become an opposition, and on their initiative above all I would say, some bring, some vote the new state symbols of the work of our territory, and not as a region, not as a geographical region, but as a political and territorial community, some yellow five-pointers have put on the flag of Vojvodina. They put the yellow five-pointer on the flag of Vojvodina, and we're still fighting, and we haven't even managed to take off the red five-pointer, and they're putting a yellow five-pointer, they've solved it, they've cut the red color, they've cut the white one, they've increased the blue and three yellow five-pointers. The flag cannot last for more than a few months, as long as it takes for the SRS to win the province's elections convincingly, but we should have heard it from the government's candidate. Of course, I know this is a minority government, but I know it won't be threatened by those the press are saying will threaten them. They will not be threatened because all and that the candidate for Prime Minister or Prime Minister, if elected tonight, line up in Knez Michael's street and start all together after the tour to kick them, they will say it is very nice and it contributes to Serbia's stabilisation. Of course, because they have one big problem, and that's the election, that's the people's will. We all know that today. That's why we have no illusions of a problem. The problems will be on the other side, the problems will always be in the fact that they will know that the people's will was different, because they will know who the Serbian citizens voted for. Another problem will have, and we do not want this problem to this government, the decision of March 31st will be - no certification. Remember, that's the decision. By then you will have Labus who will speak, and this Kostunica is not good, you will have others in some other parties, so Kostunica will tell him that he is not doing well in his work. You'll have internal problems all over the place. What will be the biggest problem and why the government will have to fall, which is why we will have to have new parliamentary elections announced before September, not only will victory in the presidential elections of Tomislav Nikolic, but it will be the fact that Serbian citizens are living harder, that Serbian citizens are living worse and that they are not offered a solution for a better life, that no one thinks no one can see, that no one can understand what it is that will make it easier for the people to live with a decent man's life. People will be out on the streets in May looking for bread to eat, and there is no solution for that. We, of course, wish you good luck. You're doing your job. We will, of course, wish to our voters and ask them to endure for a little while longer, to endure this little bit of your rule, how long it will be. Well, to once again show us that trust, to show us confidence in an even greater volume and an even greater number than it was in these now elections and to finally create a government that should rule and govern Serbia. I'm sure it'll be the SRS government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1116	Does one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right, want a word? No, I don't. Does the candidate for Prime Minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1117	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when setting the agenda for this session, which dealt with the government's programme and composition for two days, the DSS agreed to this and supported the idea of extending the duration of this session, specifically, to double the debate. We did so because we think that even such an important thing, and in other, perhaps less important things, it is unusually important that every voice in this congregation is heard, that every argument is made and that in such a debate, in the end, it is also made appropriate decisions. You'll all agree, it's a different situation in the Assembly. There's a different spirit going on in this room. All MPs are here, there is no dispute over who is and who is not an MP. There is no dispute over whether anyone who should be in the congregation is not in it, and someone who is in it should not be. There is no dispute over whether all parliamentary groups through a debate in the Assembly, through congregation committees, have the right to express their views and opinions. In this respect, opportunities have changed. And to remind you of something else, which of course deserves special attention, this session of the Assembly, as well as the previous, accessible public in Serbia, the widest public. Through RTS, the people can get acquainted with what is being said in the Assembly. It wasn't like that for months. It's simply some extremely positive change. You'll agree, I think there are as many democracies in one society as there are in this house, in the Assembly. The Assembly is the best measure of the state of democracy in society and it can only really fill us with confidence and encouragement in the work that awaits us further. I'll say one more thing, if the government and the programme I proposed were accepted in this assembly, this government and its president -- I say, I'll agree, not the Prime Minister, that's how our tradition was always spoken -- in general, they'll always hear the votes of the Assembly and always come from the Parliament being above the government, that the Assembly is the one who controls the government, not vice versa. That it is the government that should account in a democratic society in the congregation and in the congregation, be assured of that. In the debate that has been held so far, I have heard many and interesting and, in essence, when I think about, well-intentioned proposals, in order to improve the work of the government. Most of these proposals will certainly be taken into account. There were a lot of them. I responded to a part of them the day before. They were sometimes contradictory in one part, so much so that at the same time they were said that the government's programme was not sufficiently defined, and then, in criticism of the same programme, they spoke very specifically. He can't do both at the same time, but I've really heard a lot of objections, suggestions, which will certainly have a positive impact on the government's further work. Let me say one more thing, precisely because this new spirit is felt in this congregation hall, I remind you of one fact, that there will be jobs to be done, about which we need a consensus, in which a simple majority in this congregation is not enough. Starting with the Constitution. That's where we have to agree, but we have to agree, of course, to make different than all of us making certain concessions, making certain compromises. So we can come up with some solutions that are beyond the solutions and interests of certain parties, which must be in the interest of the country as a whole. It's about the Constitution first, but it's also about a few other important solutions. And of course the issue of Kosovo and Metohija will be on the agenda of this assembly, and of course it will be discussed, and of course the last and final word here will be given by MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Of course, there will be those legal proposals that may not require such a broad consensus, but be assured if we do not adopt them today, if this congregation assembly does not adopt them, then they will have to be dealt with by a later congregation meeting, and simply these affairs will have to be done in this congregation. After all, to make things easier for us, it will be when it comes to some legal solutions, no doubt in this congregation and in those where there is no need for much to look for solutions; solutions already exist. There are standards, values accepted in the democratic world. That'll make our job easier. Lastly, when I presented the programme, when I put out the priorities of action, to repeat the shortest possible, I had in mind several things, which should enable us all to get out of the situation as it is, to change something in Serbia, which means the launch of the economy, a better life, a higher standard of living, less poverty, strengthening institutions, strengthening the rule of law, protecting our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, strengthening the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and finally speeding up European integration. In that part of the world to which we have been, historically, culturally -- politically, full of two centuries, and long before, but full of two centuries since Serbia's statehood was restored. I would like, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to thank you once again for participating in this debate, for everything you have brought here and once again to assure you that this government, be sure, will always be ready for the problem that is being raised before this assembly and to make an account before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1118	I'm finishing the search. According to Article 187(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule on 3 March 2004, so today as a day for voting on a proposal for the president, vice-presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll approach the vote immediately. Before we join the vote, and since after the vote, we will have a break of one hour, in order to prepare the swearing of ministers and to submit a request for the completion of the agenda, the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, how this can take place, and the time beyond the time foreseen for the work of the National Assembly, to decide that today, after taking the oath of ministers, will work until the second item of the agenda. Please make your statement on this proposal. For 122, against 105, it did not vote 14, out of 241 present MPs. They don't work MPs. In any case, the decision has been made and the proposal has been accepted, but let's think about how to determine whether there are problems with the parliamentary units. I ask MPs who doubt the regularity of MPs to reset their card, to re-infect it, to see if it is recorded on the screen, and that if there is a problem in the next vote before the vote ends, there will be no doubt about it. May I have your attention, please, to conduct a test of the electronic system? So, especially those who voted from Turkey, please do not laugh, I simply want us to make an effort to make this and all future votes regular and legal, and without any proposal I will put the system in place and make sure that all MPs are in office. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for the Prime Minister and candidates for Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 187(1), Article 1 The Rules of Procedure, a proposal to elect members of the government, shall be decided in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the proposal for a president, vice-president and members of the government be voted publicly - using an electronic voting system. Any other suggestions? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1119	I don't have a suggestion on that basis. There's something else I'd like to suggest. Why don't we put together a vote and take an oath, if you really want it to be one solemn act. I don't understand why it takes you an hour for the ministers to just come in here and take an oath? If it takes you an hour, wait with the vote, we want to attend to the oath, but only if we do all this work at once. That in an hour we're coming to listen to you take an oath, we won't. If it's up to you to have the government elected, I'd like to ask you both to hold a vote and take an oath at the same time. If it's up to you that radicals aren't in the O.R. when you take an oath, that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1120	There was one reason I thought it was justified to take a break. Any suggestions on the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I would like to put the motion to vote on a proposal for a president, vice-president and members of the government to vote publicly – using an electronic voting system. For 131 against 28, 84 of the 243 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to vote publicly on the president, vice president and members of the government – using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for president, vice-presidents and members of the government – using an electronic voting system, the National Assembly will declare this proposal as a whole. I remind you that, according to Article 92(2), paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 187(2). The Rules of Procedure, the decision to elect government members, is considered adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I am voting on the proposal for president, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a whole. For 130, against 113, one of the 244 MPs did not vote. Since 130 MPs voted for the proposal to elect a president, vice presidents and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President, the Vice President and the members of the Government. I call upon the elected ministers to approach the oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-03-0.u1121	I would like to inform you that I have accepted the resignation of Dragan Marsicanin as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Your resignation will be served. Does Dragan Marsican want to explain his resignation? No, I don't. Thank you. I remind you he's a member of the 29th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, in the event of the resignation, the President of the National Assembly shall cease his post on the day of his resignation, i.e. at the first next session of the National Assembly, if he has resigned in the time between the two sessions. The leftover does not open a search, nor is it decided, but the term of office of the president on this basis is merely being determined. In accordance with Article 29(3) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly finds that Dragan Marscanin resigned as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me thank you on your behalf and on your behalf Dragan Marsicanin, former National Assembly President, for doing the jobs of the National Assembly. Thank you. I ask the members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 6. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approaches to take an oath. [[Applause]] (The Vice President of the National Assembly reads, and members of the government repeat the text of the oath. "I swear to my work that I will abide by the constitution and the laws and that the responsibility of the member of the government will be carried out responsibly and consciously." I ask the members of the government to sign and parade the text of the oath. We're continuing our work. Since the National Assembly found that Dragan Marscanin resigned as National Assembly President, I remind you that he is a member of 31st. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, in the event of the end of the term of office of the President of the National Assembly before the end of the time of his election, the National Assembly will, at the latest at the next session, begin the procedure of electing the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If the president of the National Assembly has suspended his term before the time he was elected, the duty of National Assembly President, until the election of the new president, shall be carried out by the oldest vice president of the National Assembly, and that is me, Vojislav Mihailovic. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 158(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure – during the session, on which the National Assembly should be immediately declared. National MP Goran Paunovic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, suggested that, in accordance with Article 158(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following an emergency procedure, put the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2004, as well as the second item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 148, two abstentions, 91 out of 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Boris Tadic, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, suggested that, in accordance with Article 158, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following an emergency procedure, puts the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of the 1st regular session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 234, two abstentions, not five out of 241 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After break – 17.05]] People's MPs, please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Since we have a quorum, I just want to let you know, since all the material for the second item of the agenda hasn't been printed, that I'm postponing the session and we're continuing it tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
