ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1166	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, first and foremost, good afternoon. I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 150 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Anita Beretic, Dragan Sutanovac, Velimir Ilic and Slobodan Vukkovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short time limit set in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt laws in the area of justice as soon as possible. At the beginning of this session, since this is the first meeting since the tragedy in Spain, I would ask you to pay our respects to the dead in Madrid for a minute of silence. "Glory to them." I would like to inform you that the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia has been elected president of Mr Branislav Ristivojevic's parliamentary group and his deputy, Mr Dusan Prophetovic. Congratulations. ) You have received resignations: Dejana Mihajlova, Vojislav Kostunica, Zora Simović, Dragan Maršićanin, Gordana Matijasevic, Milan Radulovic, Nebojsa Bakarec, Aleksandra Kotrić, Velimir Ilic, Bojan Dimitrijevic, Vlajko Senić, Vladimir Ilic, Vesna Piperski-Tucakov and Nevena Karanovic, acting as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these resignations, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments finds the end of the term of office for these Members of Parliament, the day of the resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time to which they were elected, the MPs: - Dejan Mihajlov, Vojislav Kostunica, Zori Simović, Dragan Maršićin, Gordani Matijasevic, Milan Radulovic and Nebojsa Bakarec, selected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica; - Aleksandra Čotric, Velimir Ilic, Bojana Dimitrijevic and Vlajka Senić, selected from the election list Serbian Movement of Reconstruction - Nova Serbia - Vuk Drasković - Velimir Ilic; - Vladimir Ilic, Vesna Piper-Tucakov and Neveni Karanovic, selected from the election list G17 Plus - Miroljub Labus, the day of resignations. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. You have received the resignations of Ljiljana Colic, Dragan Jocic and Aleksandar Popovic as MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, based on Article 19(1), and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly finds the end of the term of office for these MPs on the day of the resignation. In accordance with Article 19(1) and Articles 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the elections ended, MPs: Ljiljani Colic, Dragan Jocic and Aleksandr Popovic, elected on a proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. According to the Law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, new MPs will be elected to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly on a proposal from the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Since the National Assembly has just found that a number of MPs have suspended their mandate before the time they were elected, I would inform you that, in the follow-up to this session's work, according to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we will complete the empty seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that the National Assembly can continue to work in full composition. A team on the Republic Election Commission and the Administrative Committee should hold meetings, which is why, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break until 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.40.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, please insert your identification cards into the e-voting unit of the electronic voting system in order to determine the quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 122 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: - Svetlana Stojanović, Heliana Dragojevic, Ljubisa Djokovic, Slavoljub Matic, Željko Tomic, Djordju Čuquas and Milan Dimitrijević, selected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica; - Bogoljub Pejčić, Staniši Stevanović, Tomislav Kitanović and Dusan Mrvos, selected from the electoral list Serbian Renewal Movement - Nova Serbia - Vuk Draskovic - Velimir Ilic; - Ivani Kovacevic, Milki Silaev and Miroljub Marić, selected from the election list G17 Plus - Miroljub Labus. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and of Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Svetlana Stojanović, Heliana Dragojevic, Ljubisa Djokovic, Slavoljub Matic, Željko Tomic, Djordža Čuquas, Milan Dimitrijevic, Bogoljub Pejčić, Stanisa Stevanović, Tomislav Kitanovic, Dusan Mrvoš, Ivana Kovacevic, Milki Silajev and Miroljub Maric. I congratulate the MPs of the election and invite them to enter the O.R. to continue our work. You were presented with the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24 and 25 February 2004, session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 26 February 2004 and the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 2 March and 4 March 2004. [[Applause]] As he attends today's session, the electronic system shows 211, 198, so more than 126 MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes for the previous sessions, as referred to in Article 82(3). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24 and 25 February 2004. For 137, one, abstentioned, was not voted 84, out of a total of 223 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24 and 25 February 2004. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the February 26th 2004 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Fourth Extraordinary Session. For 129, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 94, of the 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 26 February 2004. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 2 March and 4 March 2004. For 125, two abstentions, 97 of the 224 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 1st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, with the majority of votes, held on 2 March and 4 March 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 218, it did not vote nine out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 223, 5 of the 228 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 224, it did not vote 5 of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The administrative board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2004, be put on the agenda. For 204, against 23, abstention one, they did not vote three out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft law on the agenda of the local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 80, against 128, they did not vote 23 out of 231 MPs. I find that most of the votes of the National Assembly have not accepted the proposal for this law to be included in an emergency procedure. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting on the agenda an urgent process a recommendation on the use of the coat of arms and anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 83 against 120, 27 of the 230 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 March 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 23, they did not vote 82, out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs has agreed to put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction Tax Act, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 80, against 124, they did not vote 24 out of 228 MPs. I find that most of the votes the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, in accordance with Article 158(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly put the draft decision on the selection of a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against 93, it did not vote 11 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic suggested that, in accordance with Article 158, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda, within the fourth item of the proposed agenda, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 230, not one, a total of 231 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The MEP Group G17 plus proposed that, in accordance with Article 158(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda, within the fourth item of the proposed agenda, a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 222, there were no 8 votes, a total of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Serbian Renewal Movement Group - New Serbia has proposed that, in accordance with Article 158(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it should not be allowed to enter into force. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda, within the fourth item of the proposed agenda, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 222, a abstentioned one, was not voted by six of the 229 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. The DSS Group proposed that Article 158(3) should be amended accordingly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall put on the agenda of the 4th item of the proposed agenda, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 March 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 225, it did not vote 5 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime (points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Branislav Ristivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 125, against 17, a abstentioned one, did not vote 88 out of 231 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions, during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 126, they did not vote 104 out of 230 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority, established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Judges, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the SRS, DS – Boris Tadic, G17 Plus, SPO-Nova Srpska and DSS, 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. A proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE COURT AUTHORITIES, JUDGMENTS AND ORGANISATION OF THE STATE ORGANISATION OF THE CRIME (joint principled search) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Branislav Ristivojevic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Serbian Radical Party one hour, 38 minutes, 24 seconds; DSS one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; DS – Boris Tadic 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPO-New Serbia 26 minutes, 24 seconds; SPS 26 minutes, 24 seconds, MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, in accordance with Article 89. Rules of Procedure. Has anyone suggested a longer time than five hours for a search? No, I don't. ) Since the total time in the joint principled search is five hours, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. Does the Proposer's representative, Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1168	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, I will not take up much of your time on these proposals, because I think the case is known to everyone. In fact, it is about transitional provisions that regulate the question of the entry into force of the provisions of these three laws that regulate the issue of new courts. One is the Administrative Court, the Court of Appeal and the transfer of jurisdiction from municipal to district courts. If that didn't happen and delayed their application, we'd be in a position to formally win the so-called. second-degree courts, but in practice there is nothing that would allow for the real application of the second-degree procedure and the protection of citizens against courts. You all know that nothing has been done in these three years: not even the buildings are specified, the judges are not elected, the staff to work has not been selected, and there is no provision for the transfer of jurisdiction from municipal to county courts or the elected judge. In that situation, if we allowed these provisions to enter into force, de facto, we would lose the courts, given that there was no second-degree procedure. The problem has arisen for a simple reason, which previously the government was quite irresponsible to this issue! If you remember, last year in March, the deadline was also missed, the courts stopped, so retroactively this assembly made the decision to move the deadline to 31.12. An even worse situation has occurred, that nothing has been done and only thanks to the relatively correct relationship between the Constitutional Court which has initiated the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of these provisions, which have otherwise been constitutional, was given the basis for a "temporary measure" and to stop these provisions until the Assembly's decision has been made. That is the reason for the urgency of this procedure, because "temporary measures" are slowly coming out. The Constitutional Court will conclude at its session that these transitional provisions are in accordance with the Constitution and we would be left without courts. For these reasons, in order to avoid the situation of severe consequences that no one can correct, the proposal was to amend these regulations in an urgent procedure. Now let me say that these changes propose a longer deadline for change for a simple reason -- which has not been done for three years, there are a number of jobs to be done, if this solution remains with the introduction of new courts. I think it takes a little longer to thoroughly implement the reform, because as far as I know, nowhere in the world did such a possibility exist or a reform of the organisation of courts has been made within such a short time of six months. Even more serious countries such as Germany, America, have been reforming their judiciary for six to ten years. For these reasons, a somewhat longer deadline has been put in place, to give the possibility to definitely examine this solution and should possibly be changed, and if it does not need to be changed, to provide all the conditions that it can indeed be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1169	Do the committee's reporters want a word? The Justice and Administration Committee, Branislav Ristivojevic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian public should know that you have today rejected proposals from the Serbian Radical Party to include certain points in the agenda in an emergency procedure, that we have well-intentioned you to resolve the issue of damage recovery in Hilandara, that we have well-intentionedly proposed a solution already known in our practice on the use of coat of arms and anthem. Maybe you know, maybe you don't know, for 12 years... (President: Mr. Nikolic, please stick to the subject. )......................................................................................................... On the basis of such a solution, we use the flag without a five-pointer, and here, tax laws, court laws, what you're proposing, it gets a recommendation from the National Assembly that it can be discussed by an emergency procedure. You're repeating the mistake that everyone has repeated before you. The only thing that matters is what you suggest! Not you - 125 messengers, but a few of you, and the rest of you follow what a few do, and when you experience the fate that every authority before you has experienced, the few remain on the top, and many of you are going down. I am your witness to this, and I do not know any MPs in the assembly, and I am a people's messenger all the time. Looks like there's always someone new who allows himself to be deceived. This looks like a "walk of snails going backwards." I remember well in 2001, when the proposed laws you said would be implemented by judicial reform. They were proposed by the DSS, and the other parties had to accept the proposal because it was about the survival of the government. That's what we talked about at a session that discussed these laws and we said, "you have to accept these DSS proposals because they're going to refuse to vote for something that might be important to you." This is one of those coalition laws, which the majority in the congregation then knew could not be applied. The reform of the judicial system -- what has worked in Serbia -- has been replaced by what is not working, which has not been established. It's been two and a half years since we got these laws that you're changing today! It's been two and a half years, and you've been looking for three more years to pass! In all that time, the judicial system is the one that you quickly changed in 2001. The one that wasn't right, so if it wasn't good from where you got the moral right to be in Serbia for another five and a half years! Well, who knows how long it's gonna be? What's wrong -- it's changing right now, what's changing -- is starting to live. But something that you say wasn't right for you to change, but never come into effect. We now have laws that don't apply. Is that judicial reform? I now hear here that in these three years it will be established, is that the right solution? How can it be established when three years should be established? What if, at the end of the third year, at the end of the third year, the courts are still in place? Well, it takes you at least a year or two to see how they work, to know whether that solution is sustainable or not. It's no good what you're doing. It's no good! Why don't you admit that what's working now can continue to work. Whose idea was this? Let the supporter of this idea come out, the one who persuaded the National Assembly to adopt laws that had not been applied for two and a half years. One shorter, and this is the one about the powers of state authorities, he was later brought in, but these two were brought in 2001 at the time of DOS euphoria. What's going on now? It wasn't the judges' fault, that's when it was said; it wasn't the judges' fault, it wasn't the law. We're not good with the dishes. Why do we need municipal, county courts, what do we need business and senior businesses -- we're going to be a cassation now, so we're going to have this one, and then we're going to have nice words. We even had master's infractions. I'm surprised you didn't suggest that now, either. It's lost somewhere this year or last year, that Pedlog Law on Masters of Infractions, he's lost! Is it because of the magistrate who has the SRS or what the reason was, I don't know? So, Serbia is operating according to the system by which it functioned until the DOS came into power. And DOS is talking about justice! And DOS is saying he changed, reformed the judiciary. It only takes him three years from today or, say, January 1st, it takes him another three years to establish those courts! There are serious lawyers here, there are you who have come from the judiciary, whether as lawyers or as judges, - what does this look like to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? The reform of the judiciary will be carried out in three years, and the SRJ broke in a month and brought the Constitutional Charter and the "Belgrade Agreement" and made us a new state in a month! You can't cancel the municipal court in six years. Well, that's what you're offering us today. I don't expect anything from you. I don't expect any seriousness. This doesn't look like anything! How many days does the government have? Wasn't there some serious agenda for this session of the National Assembly? We'll be over this in an hour. The National Assembly is doing nothing! Is the government doing anything? If the government does, it should be in the National Assembly, not in the government building, not in the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not the police! Let everyone do their job, but we MPs have nothing to do since you chose the government. We don't have any draft laws, ladies and gentlemen MPs! All ministers are talking about the big jobs they're doing, the huge jobs, and no one's delivering any bill to the National Assembly. We must have been informed that all the draft laws submitted by the previous government were withdrawn - I agree with that. Of course, those whom the messengers have submitted, who are no longer messengers. But it has to be done here seriously. We'll have presidential elections. We're offering to hold local elections together, and you're running away from it. Why? To make it even more expensive. Why don't we change or pass a whole law on local self-government, get to the deadline that the president of the Parliament has set when he's going to call the presidential elections? You can tell him. Again, I think it's a little better. The former president has been thinking for six months, this 60 days, and maybe the third one will decide in a month to call the election. Everyone has an opinion. But the assembly has to work. For 13 years now, the National Assembly has been the subject of the Assembly. That's what I do. I am interested in 250 MPs, whose job it is to pass laws, but the laws by which Serbia will rule. These are not the laws by which Serbia is ruled. I even think that there was a need to establish retroactiveness here. We're now extending the deadline that expired three or four months ago. How is that possible? How is that possible without another member of the law? We're just realizing it's late and now we're extending the deadline. We can extend the deadline today, not from three or four months ago, if we want to pass the laws in a manner foreseen by the Constitution and by law. We can't influence the adoption of these laws. The explanation is lame and clear. It has to be this way, but, too often in Serbia, we face this argument, when we run some business and we don't bring it to the end, when in this business, our chances, our hopes, our ambitions fail, when someone brings us to the wall, he tells us – and what can we do better? When it comes to that, then really nothing can do better than extending these laws, it seems that nothing better can be done, and it can -- it can be put out of force. They can be put out of power, what works anyway, and you're writing a law that you'll probably one day apply. By the way, you're not going to put off the power that you suggested. That's the spite that will take us far away. Far away, but in a negative sense. Why? You had good intentions, after that you had a fight, the government carried out what you suggested - she didn't want to implement it. Now you have your government, suggest to that government what they want to implement. But the judiciary is a tricky subject, see for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1171	Mr. Nikolic, do you want to use the other ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1172	I won't. I don't think that's necessary. I know those who don't want to be convinced by their own discussion can't be convinced. I'm just saying this to ease my conscience. To invite you, we are prepared to work in the National Assembly as equal partners. You're a smooth refuter of our proposals here. One day you will regret it bitterly - a group of MPs I think already today, after certain votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1173	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Stojkovic. Here you go. Then, Mr. Pytich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1174	Just one brief explanation, so there's no confusion. There's no retroactiveity. The Constitutional Court has made a decision stopping these measures from 31. 12. Therefore, the urgency is precisely because we are in a position to highlight these measures. So they'll schedule a session and evaluate the constitutionality. So there's no retroactiveity. As far as these system laws are concerned, all four are in the construction phase. You can expect them at the most recent time in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1175	Mr. Ristivojevic, replica, then Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1176	Replica to Mr. Nikolic. I'd like to point out a few things in the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Mr. Nikolic. It is true that several years ago in this House, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposed a set of judicial laws, which had been passed, however, the newly formed parliamentary majority later intervened in the assembly's set of laws, complemented them, abandoned them. In the end, the essence of these laws was lost and there was a situation that they became inapplicable to the real, the bad, and therefore they could not be implemented- perhaps there was even a certain amount of desire, even some hidden, but perhaps open to obstructing the establishment of these courts. I will give just one example: we have proposed in a "basic proposal" one court of appeals with several departments; in the end it ended in four appeals courts. Our view is that the creation of several appeals courts in the territory of a state is a wrong thing, because we will thus create more legal areas, and especially in the areas of rights where there are too many gaps and where courts come to greater expression with their decisions, interpreting the right. So the existing solution is bad. I think it's even inconclusive and that we should intervene on it. Next, as to what the government is doing? 12 or 13 days ago, we voted Government. One common general rule of the parliamentary practice of all civilized countries is to give the government 100 days. It's not just for the government to have time to write the laws, it's for her to have time to set herself up neatly, and only then to submit bill proposals and then to decide on them. There are certain bill proposals, we also heard from Mr Stojkovic, the minister of justice. As soon as possible, they will arrive at the Assembly, surrounded, comprehensive. So, the final bill. I really think it is completely inappropriate to expect the government to have a concrete bill, for example, on local self-government, after only 12 days of work. Most of the ministries still need to get inside, see what remains of the documentation from previous ministers, need to enter the budget inspection to see how money was spent, etc. I think it would be okay to meet the new government, give it a hundred days, which is the usual parliamentary practice. After all, you too, when you were in the Republic government, years ago, and you were certainly given those hundred days and no one challenged it. So it wouldn't be a bad thing to do it the same way around here. Because it is one thing to be an opposition to the one who is your political opponent, and the other to be an opposition to the state, as Mr Markovic said the other day at the consultations of the heads of parliament groups. Some things would be here, which is obstructing the government's work in the first hundred days. That would really be the opposite, believe me, of state interest, not party interest. I don't mind, the government should be criticised. It takes every bad move she makes to spot herself in time, to show herself to her. A government that doesn't have a constructive opposition can be put to sleep very easily can forget where it's headed and in which direction. She also needs the necessary constructive opposition, but the constructive opposition is to give her a hundred days, give her the right chance, so she can start working. And lastly, as far as these draft laws are concerned, let me point out what Mr Stojkovic, the minister, pointed out, are intervening changes, not final, final and rounded solutions. Only urgent intervention changes, to bring the actual state of affairs into line, or to bring the legal situation into line with the fact, and in the meantime, it will come up with comprehensive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1177	Thank you. There's a word, Mr. Pitiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1178	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I was a little concerned about the finding of the Honorable Mr. Minister regarding the Constitutional Court. I don't think it's grateful that we're anti-civilizing, if I understand correctly, how will the Constitutional Court be defined, about these bill proposals, about what we all advocate, it seems to me, for the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. If that kind of communication exists, I ask you, if nothing else, to keep it for relations with the Constitutional Court. So, for us, this kind of communication is not acceptable, and it is not acceptable for us to suggest in any way by the judicial authority, even if it is the highest constitutional authority, how it will act on the law. Otherwise, we as a parliamentary group will support these three draft laws. They're needed. They're necessary. Apparently, the deadline for establishing the administrative court and appeals courts was too ambitious. I would not agree with that, and I would not blame it all on the previous Registrar, because, when the DSS proposed these system laws, it also proposed some deadlines, which were short, even in the opinion of the current minister of justice, even in the opinion of the current government, because the current government dimensioned the deadline for three years. So, it provides for a much longer deadline than was foreseen in the original DSS proposal, and it is obvious that it is not only a matter of goodwill, but a matter of systemic determination, that the whole new system of new courts from technical, logistical conditions to formal conditions, to the education of courts, simply requires much longer, than was predicted. I wouldn't comment on that with the notice of the previous Secretary of Defense. It's just not grateful every time you look negatively at the predecessors. I think that sometimes it is also necessary to respect objective circumstances, especially when these objective circumstances are respected by the bill, i.e. it is projected to take three years to revive the new system of courts. Otherwise, we were inclined last year, at the last session of the previous call, to intervene in this area. At that time, there would be no need for us to laminate over behavior, or to laminate over the fact that the Constitutional Court had to intervene in this area - and the Constitutional Court intervened with its provisional measure. We suggested that those deadlines be extended legally. A colleague of Michael's, head of the DSS parliamentary group, was against it at the time. We felt that it needed to be at that last session, given that it was before New Year's Eve, given the fact that the courts couldn't live, the professional public demanded it and we were very inclined to extend that deadline. We are now in a thankless situation, that the Constitutional Court has given us an unusual way, meeting the need for the legal system to work in Serbia, reacting, allowing us to extend these deadlines. Anyway, we're facing an objective situation. The deadline that has now been dimensional since the age of three is indeed large, much larger than it was in the previous DSS proposal. I believe he guarantees that more than one advance can be done on January 1st 2007, than was possible so far and in that deep belief that it is necessary, at this point in time, for the Skpština to intervene. We'd be very happy to meet with system laws, which are promised, not just ad hoc interventions. We'll support this law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1179	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1180	I addressed the MPs, so, among other things, Mr. Pitiæ. I can speak my mind as a lawyer, and I believe you share it. If the provision is transitional, that the law should enter into force and then it is not contrary to the Constitution. That's my opinion. I'm just saying that a solution has been found for the courts to formally initiate proceedings to give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to bring this temporary measure. When I was saying why we came to this, I cited the facts. One is that it was retroactively done in March of last year and the other is that we came to temporary measures. You're giving the government's assessment. I didn't give it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1181	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups DS-Boris Tadic, DSS and the SRS. I give my word to the MP Boško Ristic, from the Democratic Party, and let Mr Petar Jojic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1182	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, we have received here your proposal to amend certain judicial laws, which, above all, refer to a technical change in date, as you consider it and how you understand it. However, I expected much more, above all from the current government's mandate and from the current minister. I expected a proposal to amend, first of all, the basis of the legislative system, first of all, the adoption of the constitution, and I expected to hear what reforms will take place in the judiciary and the legal system, which we will constitutionally - legal guarantees for the independence and independence of the courts. Have you considered the possibility of an independent court budget, the way in which the budget is collected; I expected you to propose improving the economic and material situation in the judiciary, the way in which the salaries are raised to the employees of the judiciary, the judges, to ensure a different way of determining the list of judicial skills, to determine how to pay compensation for compulsory defences, to introduce the Ombudsman, the right to free legal assistance guaranteed by the Constitution. So these are all categories that are necessary for the proper and complete functioning of both the legal system and the judicial system. On the contrary, you, during your first address to the MPs in this House, only looked at each other in a flat-rate manner and characterised the irresponsible work of the previous minister of justice and the previous government. You immediately fell into conflict. You said that the previous government and that the minister was irresponsible, because in three years he did not execute the establishment of second-degree appeals courts, and at the same time you asked yourself for a three-year period to establish those second-degree courts. Again, as one of my predecessors, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that it is just a set of judicial laws that is proposed by the DSS. I believe that you have imposed such proposals on one complicated solution, where double first-degree courts and double second-degree courts are introduced, which requires a very large number of perpetrators in these courts, so, for example, for appeals courts, a new 250 judges should be elected, according to some analyses made by the High Council of Justice. Speaking of the High Council of Justice, I must also say that you accidentally or intentionally failed to say that part of the obligation in establishing the Courts of Appeal lies on the High Council of Justice, because first of all, the High Council of Justice lays down a rule on determining the number of judges and judges of the jury and adopts the systematization of jobs for future appeals courts. Therefore, since the High Council of Justice has not adopted these acts by today and has not laid down these conditions as a prerequisite for the establishment of the Court of Appeal or the Court of Appeal, as it is now regulated by law, the Ministry of Justice had no opportunity to propose the establishment of these courts. Not to remind you, when an appeal court is opened, it is necessary to call a competition for these jobs, that the competition should, according to the Court's Law, be called by the President of the Court, and we do not have elected presidents of the Court of Appeals. So that's one unspeakable solution you haven't pointed to, and I don't think you've ever seen it before. I expect the minister of justice to say in his next address to parliament what changes in the judiciary he wants, as he sees the reform of the judiciary: whether he sees this set of laws that now declares as a consequence of the previously adopted constitution and previously established constitutional guarantees where the constitution will define the position and composition of the High Council of Justice, the way members of the High Council are elected by the judiciary, the way judges are proposed and elected, who will be empowered to elect judges, the responsibility for the work of judges - not disciplinary because of their lack of work, but responsibility because of the unconscious or unprofessional conduct of jobs or responsibility, let's say, for not participating in continued training of judges, since we know that we have very poor staff potential in the Serbian judiciary. So I expect the minister of justice to come before this parliament and say what guarantees he is offering, which parliament would adopt: will the order of steps be the first, the adoption of the constitution, as it is the DSS, which has proposed to you in place of the minister of justice, advocated in the pre-election campaign, when this constitution will be passed, whether we wait for the adoption of the constitution and in what procedure, and whether only then we will bring a new set of law on justice; whether we will pass new procedural laws that define the position, organisation and authority of courts in the handling of certain cases, will we keep the jury system as it was in our judicial system so far, whether only judges will judge individuals or a summary judicial council without judges? So I expect answers to all these questions. Unfortunately, I could not find out the answers to those questions from Mr Kostunica's exposé, which only referred to a review of individual personal solutions in the election of judges and president of courts. According to my knowledge, you personally tried to dissuade the work of the Administrative Court Council by inviting members of the Administrative Court to give up the motion to elect the president of the courts and thus create a place for the election of your party listeners as president of Serbia's courts. I hear you've made an observation that the Administrative Court is not in accordance with the Constitution. I remind you that the High Council of Justice is also not a constitutional category and that we currently have a double system of choice of judges. One provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the other provided for by the Law on Judges and Powers of the High Council of Justice. I expected that the new ministry would remove all these systemic shortcomings and propose solutions to finally establish the Serbian judiciary, in a modern way, and ensure the judicial independence and independence that will be guaranteed by the Constitution and which will not be subject to the political change that is currently on the scene. You, as a new authority, have announced a set of new judicial laws that are introductive to the personal change in the judiciary that you are preparing and actively trying to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1183	Thank you. Mr. Stojkovic, then Mr. Ristivojevic, the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1184	I'm surprised by what I heard from the previous speaker and I can interpret it as a possible deconcentration, so he didn't realize the point of the agenda. When it comes to the agenda this question of what needs to be done in the judiciary, how to change it and in which direction, I will explain it. For now, I have given an explanation only for what is on the agenda for this congregation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1185	Mr. Ristivojevic, replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1186	Just a few answers to an esteemed colleague, Mr. Ristic. Dear fellow, this item of the agenda is not an exposé of the Minister of Justice, e.g. "on his ministry's work plan" for the next three years and so on. It is only a joint debate on amendments and amendments to the law, three draft laws, which we have come to because the previous government, which has passed from the congregation majority in which you participated, has failed to do anything constructive on the reorganisation of the judiciary. Most of the answers you asked for, in other words, the questions you've asked here, are essentially only about the future. You even asked for a proposal from the Constitution. It's really too ambitious in 12 days to expect a proposal from the Constitution, and the government has not yet been able to establish itself fairly. That's really funny. After all, no one has the right to ask for another more than he is able to promise himself he will. You have failed in your time to do most of the things you require of this government in the first 12 days of work. That's really funny. As for those remarks you made about some party listeners in the judiciary, I think it's pointless and there's no need to answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1187	Thank you. Replication to Mr. Minister's presentation, Bosko Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1188	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, I think it is inappropriate for you to tell the MP that his exposure is due to deconcentration during his participation in this debate. I believe I have made very significant remarks on the system solutions that define the establishment of Serbia's judiciary. What the previous government or consequences have done in the previous government, you can see from the background, proposed by the Democratic Party as a constitutional basis for discussion before the Constitutional Commission. You will also have on the website of the Democratic Party that constitutional basis, where you will see all constitutional and legal guarantees that we have offered as a guarantee of the independence and independence of courts and judges. We have defined the position of the High Council of Justice as a constitutional category, which cannot be changed by law, where most members will make judges elected in direct and secret elections from the ranks of all judges from Serbia's territory. That gives really constitutional-legal guarantees. We have also established the way responsibility for judicial work will be determined, in order to achieve efficiency in trials and so that Serbian citizens do not conduct long-term proceedings and expect justice. The right to justice must be made available to all, but justice must be timely. I must also say that the representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Constitutional Commission have obstructed the work of the Constitutional Commission -- and it is at that point on the agenda, where constitutional guarantees for the independence and independence of judges and courts of the Democratic Party of Serbia have been established. Therefore, those who have obstructed the government's work in order to provide a guarantee for the independence of courts and judges cannot now make objections when they have not offered anything new. An unacceptable assessment is that another deadline has to be given to this government and 100 days have begun to run since election day. The fact that you were unable to establish and offer yourself to those, by quality and by virtue of power in the elections to build a government, that's your problem. The fact that you said you needed to form first, although I'm not sure about the consonants you used, we're going to give you that deadline and we're going to be a constructive opposition. We will support this bill of amendments. However, you have deceived Serbian citizens to have legal projects that guarantee fundamental changes in the rule of law and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1189	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1190	Ladies and gentlemen, when the reform laws are passed, experts must participate, not beginners. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of 2001, in this House, we discussed the adoption of new laws on courts, judges, prosecutors and the High Council of Justice. What is the result of these laws? There are no results, because these laws were not applicable in practice and they were not good laws. Good laws must be passed by professional people, who will assess and participate in their preparation, that such laws will be able to live in practice. The reform of the judiciary has not even begun, although DOS authorities came on October 5th 2000. I can even conclude, I am well aware, that the situation in the judiciary has deteriorated and that it has never been worse than it is now, taking into account, above all, the material situation of the employees, taking into account the personnel brought in and appointed by the former authorities as the managers of the judicial authorities, taking into account the fact that hundreds and hundreds of deputy public prosecutors have been appointed by the government, who are involved in the judicial system and who are in office in representing the prosecutor's indictment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say that DOS government has done anything to improve the situation and reform, as well as the organisation of our judiciary. When it comes to the work of the judicial authorities, nothing felt, even worse, because a large number of cases that have not been solved are criminal and litigious. The litigation procedures are conducted for ten, twenty, and some even thirty years. It is absolutely unacceptable in a democratic society, as the new government wants it to be shown. When it comes to passing these laws, the postponement of these laws, as said by the president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, is too long, and that, in three years' time, the current authority is unable to amend, supplement or pass new system laws. Who can accept that proposal and that view that it takes him three years? This is absolutely unacceptable, because it is known that we have professional people in the judiciary and state bodies, who and how can I propose to Parliament good bills on the number of judges. When it comes to the number of judges, I will remind you once again that Serbia has about 3,000 judges, as far as I know, and that England has about 1,650 judges, and England is seven times bigger than Serbia, and the issue of the efficiency of our judiciary is raised. When it comes to the choice and reform of the holders of judicial functions, these functions must be attended and elected by professional people, effective people who can share justice. Justice cannot be shared by one who has studied for ten or fifteen years and has barely graduated from law school and has passed at six or seven. Believe me, don't ever wish that they share justice with you, because they won't know how to share it. When it comes to the material position of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice and the judicial authorities would have to take care of who educates our judges and prosecutors. Do we need education so that the judges who need to prosecute war crimes are educating judges from the Republic of Croatia? The Serbian Radical Party considers this unacceptable, that we have good judges and that our judiciary in this regard is absolutely capable, as it has done so far. It was about the most serious crimes and the most severe sanctions. We've had priors in our criminal law, intended and prescribed crimes for genocide, war crimes, etc. These are experiments that cost Serbia a lot. In this respect, the reform needs to be carried out so that the people see that they have good justice, effective justice, rational justice and that there is not so much apparatus that they now have. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I would like to remind myself that the result of the work of the judiciary in the last year was that the judiciary was silent and did not oppose it, and according to the Constitution and the law, it was necessary to oppose the gravest violation of human rights on the globe of the Earth, as it did Serbia in the "Sabbe" action. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expect the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to carry out an analysis and come up with a result that we had over 5,000 witnesses arrested and held in prison without having the right to have a defender, that they had no right to be visited by relatives in prisons without talking about those who were suspects. They were suspected during the Sabela action, people who allegedly had some files with the competent state authorities. That was enough reason, they say, to arrest someone and hold on for a month, to extend his detention to 60 days, to extend his detention to three months. The prime minister of the Republic of Serbia was killed and an investigation conducted at the time came in a timely manner, according to press and electronic media, that the perpetrators were discovered and that this work was enlightened. Who had the right to order, from what center of power, to arrest 12,500 people? Let me remind you, and you know it well, in November 1963, the President of the United States of America, Kennedy, was killed. Only one person was arrested and 12,500 people were arrested in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the judiciary, you can judge the result of the work of the judiciary on this, and how important, the work. When it comes to educating the judiciary at consultations, in Zlatibor, in Kopalnik, in Vrnjačka Banja, in Banja Koviljaca, in Palic, even abroad, in Budva, it has become tourism. Whoever advises and advises him there can be evaluated on your own. This does not benefit the judiciary, and in the future, the Ministry of Justice should take account of it, and the amount of funds spent and spent. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me for one minute to remind you, on many occasions lately, I have been stopped by agricultural producers from Banata and asked - what are you doing there, gentlemen Members of Parliament, that none of you say a word about what we're going to do when it comes to the upcoming spring sowing. Why doesn't this Minister of Agriculture show up and propose some measures in front of the Government - to be cheaper fertilizer, to be cheaper seeds, to be cheaper protective means, to be cheaper agricultural machines, and that citizens can thus provide bread, or agricultural producers?- Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1191	Please respect the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1192	Ladies and gentlemen, they're asking me what's going to happen to Kostic, who took nine euros from the sugar company! Sugars in Kovacica and its agricultural producers are asking parliament to take some measures, and even the new government, to take these sugars away and return them to the workers of Kovacica and other sugars, because their new owner has not even paid for their sugar tail, and he also encourages them not to sow sugar tail this year. What does that mean? If you don't sow sugar tails so that it won't be processed, the workers can get fired, and he can get to a factory that he can resell tomorrow, so he can get out of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1193	The People's MP Vojkan Tomic has the word, followed by National MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1194	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are used to listening to the fellow MPs coming out of the topic, but this much of the previous speaker really wasn't expected. What's clear in this set of amendments and the addition of laws is that these are extorted measures and that they are technical. The deadline that may have been the subject of the debate in the last hour is appropriate, sufficient and perhaps a little longer, but given the seriousness in which the judiciary is presently located, we think it is necessary to be longer. Considering how much money it takes to provide material resources for the judiciary and for new courts, as well as for the professional training of judges, this deadline is quite sufficient. As we already know on December 29th last year, the Constitutional Court adopted a provisional measure, and it was necessary to make changes to these laws at this session in an urgent procedure and within a short period of time. However, since the parliamentary groups have already agreed to support these amendments to the law, from the gentleman who was an "alpha and omega" in the previous assembly of this parliament, we have heard an indictment of the new government and the new government. This gentleman took the right, without a gram of moral and legal credibility, to speak about the Constitution, to speak about the material situation in the judiciary, to talk about the budget, to talk about personal solutions in the judiciary, to talk about taxes and all the other things that he had with his associates, he knew very well, arranged and how he did. This gentleman, who takes the right to give us lectures on constitutional law, was the man who, I think, took the only one of his rights to disobey the Constitutional Court decision last year. It is about returning the parliamentary mandates and this gentleman is now coming out for a pay phone and calling for some solutions that are only known to him! This gentleman obviously has problems with his identity in his party and showing up for this pay phone probably wants to replace it. For me and my parliamentary group, it was enough to hear the representative of that parliamentary group and to make it clear that this parliamentary group would support this amendment of the law, but apparently this gentleman has a need to report and speak beyond those agreements that were reached within the parliamentary group. I call on you to vote for this set of judicial laws, first of all, because they are technical character, they give sufficient time, and we will have the opportunity to discuss in this House and this House a new set of judicial laws that will, be assured, reformer and be proud and honored to all of us as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1195	The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, followed by National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite evident that the newly formed assembly majority will vote this set of laws, but I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about this set of laws. In fact, I can agree with the constitutional basis for the adoption of such a bill. However, I cannot agree with the explanation given in the proposal for this law. Namely, it is said in the explanation that the Constitutional Court has made a certain decision (Decision). The decision (Decision) of the Constitutional Court was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 130/2003" and came into force on 29.12.2003, and as such it has both its saying and its argument. If we come from the sentence of this Constitutional Court decision, clearly, it is one very discriminatory legal formulation, because that decision of the Constitutional Court says that they are suspending all individual actions and individual acts that would be taken on the basis of Articles 81, 82, 1 and 2, 84, and pursuant to Article 85. Court-order law. We can say that the interpretation of the Constitutional Court is really detailed, decadent and clear. This argument states that this decision is based on Article 42(1). Code of procedure before the Constitutional Court. So this is the basis in procedural law, not material law. For these reasons, when this decision (Decision) has been made, it is in the form of a temporary measure, and we know that every temporary measure must last the longest to make a final measurement decision. The Constitutional Court has not made a measurement decision on this matter. It is an initiative to examine the constitutionality of decisions and the initiative came first from the Supreme Court of Serbia, the second from the Smederev District Court, the third from the First and Long Municipal Court in Belgrade. All these courts have given an argument as to why they consider the Law on Court Order, based on these Articles 81, 82, 84, 85, unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court, in the light of that decision (Decision), also accepts the claim made by the applicants for the assessment of constitutionality and accepts and sets out a provisional measure which must take the longest time to reach a measurement decision. However, in order to know what we are talking about here, we must clearly and unequivocally state the following in the explanation of this decision, and the following finding is said, however - the Court of Appeals and the Court of Justice have not been formed, no judges have been elected, nor are the district courts reorganised to carry out the tasks of the jurisdiction laid down in the provisions of the Law on the regulation of Courts, so it continues – in that sense, it cannot function in accordance with Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So we must clearly say from this pay phone that the previous government absolutely did nothing in the system of a set of laws that they passed and adopted in the judiciary. Another very important thing is that there were three changes here, starting in 2001: the first change was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 63/01, the second was 42/02 and the third was 27/03. In 2004, we discussed the same issues again. So each year this congregation discusses almost the same questions. I repeat once again, that a solution to a problem is delayed. I get the impression that the previous DOS government has thrown only one hot potato into the hands of the current newly formed assembly majority, and it, that the problem is delaying and deposing the people for a period of three or four years. I have to remind you of one more thing, that in the first "defense line of these interests" stands the SRS. That is why we cannot underestimate either the Supreme Court that filed the initiative, or the District Court in Smederevo, or the First and Second Municipal Court of Belgrade. If this is true, as is said from here, from this pay phone, in the capacity of a minister or the property of a fellow lawyer, I can't agree with that. The minister may say his own opinion, whether it is constitutional or not, but to prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision, it is already under a great deal of question! I also cannot accept that all of this was attended by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia and these three other courts, as a joint agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1197	The word has a minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1198	What the previous speaker said, I said the same thing. The procedure has been initiated to give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to process the possibility of correcting the failure and error. In that sense, we used this question to correct the mistake that was made, so it is not timely to apply these regulations. A three-year deadline has been given, and I should say immediately, to reassure the previous speaker, not to delay the problem, but to get enough time for this problem to be solved once definitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1199	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1200	This bill of law has clearly served as a good clagworth for many to look back on the root problems of the justice system, to talk a lot about it today. When a draft law is submitted in an emergency procedure and it contains what this bill contains, and these are certain emergency measures that are in connection with the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision and without whose adoption at the moment would set me in a remarkable problem that the minister has just explained and some speakers have explained earlier, it means that at the moment when the debate is on concrete points of the agenda, it is becoming unnecessary in relation to everything else. And to be convinced here, whether the proponent or those who make up the relative majority in the government, as the bearers of that government, is the DSS, whether we are malicious, clumsy or poor in the way we propose our regulations, I will remind you of something. It's about the fact that the real justice reformers here are just members of the DSS. In 2001. The DSS has made an ambitious, bold and major move towards judicial reform. Unfortunately, the assembly majority later, when the DSS came out of power, did not want to follow and listen. She stepped down this reform course, did nothing in terms of the integration of this regulation, the implementation of this regulation in the legal system, did nothing about the establishment of appeals, administrative and cassation courts. Therefore, when it comes to the time limit that is being criticised here and from that deadline, it concludes - that in 2001, the system reform course of the DSS is wrong and inapplicable in this set of judicial laws. It's a totally wrong premise! A long deadline was then given because it was known and assumed that certain elements of this system could not be implemented in six months. As not only has nothing been done, but in the past two years, I will agree with the previous speaker, it is something even more repainted, these laws on amendments and additions that happened in this previous assembly of Parliament in two or three times. As a state, we returned to the beginning of business. I suppose we can appreciate that if something has been returned to the very beginning and nothing has been done regarding the implementation of this set of laws, it is natural that both that deadline for the new government and for the new assembly should be similar to that of the very beginning. Please, today we have a bill of urgency and the amendments proposed by this set of laws have to do with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and without them, justice would be blocked. Therefore, this has to be done today, and everything else can come later as a system proposal and from it not to run away from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose they will do so very quickly and I think we will have an answer to all the questions that are being asked here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1201	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, so let the People's Messenger Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1202	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, as well as a set of judicial laws. In fact, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, under the existing Law on Court Order, the Court of Appeal and the Administrative Court should start working on 1 January 2004. So, Mr. Minister, that deadline is long gone. The existing Law on the Regulation of Courts has brought irresponsible and unprofessional DOS power. Such a law is an absolute legal failure and such a law cannot survive because there is no material basis for the work of newly established courts. A law that provides for new courts, which have no material basis for the work of them, cannot be applied. Practice has denied them, will deny them and this one, so it is not necessary to delay its application, but should put it out of force immediately. This is the government's proposal to improvise the work of a new government. "As soon as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct," said our famous lawyer, Valtazar Bogisic. The additional time given by the new DOS majority is improvising, trying to prolong something that can't live in practice. The new DOS continues the practice of the old DOS under the "let it hold water until the masters leave" system, instead of responsibly approaching this burning problem relating to our judiciary. Instead of urgent, professionally reaching out to work and offering system solutions, you have decided to improvise and surface, all by the system "as long as I am alone and after me a flood". So, you, fortunately, will last much shorter than this law will come into force. It is the fundamental constitutional and legal right of every man to seek his own satisfaction before the court for a wrongful right. Why? That right, or that it would wrongly win the right. The right to appeal, for example in a litigation procedure, depends on the disposition and will of the party whether to sue someone or not. Taxes are so large that simply this majority rather than reducing taxes, these changes prescribe how to divide prey. I responsibly claim, as a lawyer with years of experience, that citizens give up protecting their rights in many cases due to high taxes. You've drained this people to the bone. Instead of removing the mess and putting the state in order, you're improvising. Yet everything is not lost, although things are ugly, anything is possible to correct if you are willing to exercise your power in a safe manner. But nothing, gentlemen, do what should be done. You have not adopted any SRS proposals by emergency procedure. Of course, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. Now it is seen, and now it is clear who is he who watches over his fatherland, who fought most against those who enslaved us, while he prepares gifts for you. If you were grateful to this people for being in power, for you yourselves would have been ruined for a long time.- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1203	The word has a folk MP, Petar Cvetkovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1204	Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda is a technical amendment to the law set out in the law on justice, however, it is obvious that any item of the agenda, even such a technical change regarding the extension of the application of the provisions of the law -- a practical provision representing final and transitional provisions -- that this fact is used for a very wide story and for a topic that is not on the agenda. But it should be said that at this point in this agenda, it is not necessary to judge the work of the previous government, because, as I said, it is not on the agenda, and the previous government has been ruled by citizens in the elections. On the other hand, it can't be the government or the Ministry that took office a few days ago, along with this item of the agenda where, as I said, technical changes to transitional and final provisions, to make proposals, to give visions to the Constitution or to a whole set of judicial laws. I will remind very briefly, for the sake of the citizens and you who know, that in 2001 exactly according to the DSS proposal, a series of system laws from the domain of the judiciary, however, immediately after three or four months, there was a change and these changes were just going on, and so on, every few months. Finally, last year's change led to the fact that both the essence and the essence of the law, which were originally passed, was completely amended, and this is the direct consequence of the absence of a desire to apply in practice laws that, as I said, were passed in December 2001. It is therefore necessary to remove this illegal situation, however, that the Constitutional Court gave its provisional measure the possibility, by extending the transitional and final provisions on the application of the law by the proposed deadline. As you've heard, from both the government and the minister and the ministry, a complete and comprehensive change with the proposals will follow. I'm undermining, it's the subject of this agenda point, and we have to limit ourselves to that. In this way, the judiciary will function as-so, and I underline, precisely many amendments and additions over the past three years, after the adoption of that original bill, it has come to the attention of judges who have not had a single day in the judiciary or the solution is valid for the minister to appoint prosecutors, which certainly does not represent the pawnage of the previous, declared pawnage, or of the previous Government, and is certainly not a pawn of the DSS and legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1205	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the fourth time before us sets of laws, draft laws on justice, or as we have heard from the promoters the extorted measures of technical character, intervention measures, a transitional solution to the definitive one that will follow in 2007 and so on. As soon as this law was passed in 2002, the SRS parliamentary group warned you not to change the structure of the judiciary. You should have considered everything carefully first, created all the necessary conditions, then passed laws. This is how we are in a situation where, already here for the third year, this law has not been implemented, and I guess now it's clear to everyone that it's best that such a law that doesn't apply at all doesn't exist in the legal system. Of course, it would be best if you would admit the mistake you made and put this law out of force, because by correcting a law like this most, this all looks like a resuscitation of someone who's been dead for two years, and since the electroshocks haven't given the results three times, you say now, come on, let him cool down, so in three years or so we'll try again. The deadlines you have proposed for these amendments to the law are also extremely inappropriate. It is not correct of you to prejudge the way the courts are arranged for 2007, because it is already evident that you will not be in power then. In 2007, the Serbian Radical Party will likely be in the second year of its mandate -- and you; As you know, we have our views in the area of court arrangements. We think the courts should be in general jurisdiction, so, with two-stage and extremely three-stage decision-making. It is interesting what we heard from Justice Minister Mr Stojkovic, who says that the Constitutional Court has given this decision (Decision) the opportunity to suspend the application of these laws with a provisional measure, and that now the contested provisions of the law will be declared constitutional. I wonder how Mr. Stojkovic, the minister of justice, knows what the Constitutional Court's decision will be? We had a situation like this, I'll remind you, in March 2003. The Constitutional Court was silent then. At that time these provisions of the law came into force and in practice we had a situation that the judges, in their own opinion, had, therefore, individually each judge for themselves, acted the way they wanted to.- I'm sorry. Some delayed all the searches, which were scheduled, some tried as if nothing had happened, even though it was not in their jurisdiction. The Constitutional Court didn't react at the time. The Constitutional Court kept quiet in many other important issues and decisions only when the whole situation was resolved. That was the case with the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, as the Minister tells us, and with regard to this law. One of the reasons why this decision was taken, the Constitutional Court says that the inability to function would violate the "principal principle" set out in Article 9. The Constitution. The question arises, is this agreement, which apparently exists between the minister and between the gentlemen of the Constitutional Court, in violation of the principle of power-sharing, or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1207	Thank you. Mr Stojkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1208	I appreciate your youth, I'm much older than you, I have more experience. I have to tell you, I couldn't negotiate with anyone at the time this temporary measure was passed, because I wasn't a minister. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: How do you know the decision of the Constitutional Court will be made? I don't know what the decision will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1209	I ask the MPs not to receive from the scene. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1210	I have my own opinion and now I'm telling you, after 35 years of experience, I know that when it says, the law comes into force then and then, I don't remember the case that it was assessed unconstitutional. That's it. All I'm saying is that the correct relationship of that court gave us the opportunity, thanks to its procedural scale, to correct what was not done and to be done. That's all I was explaining. And to make a deal with someone when I'm just a citizen, I don't see how I could.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1211	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1212	The citizens of Serbia finally need to understand that several points of the agenda are on the agenda, which have a common title: "The debate on the consequences and perspectives of the government of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica". Why? Because a new Law on Courts, a new Law on Judges, and several other laws dealing with the judiciary were adopted on a proposal from the Democratic Party of Serbia and the foundation of a new judicial system was then established in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that judicial system didn't come into life or to be more precise, it selectively revived. He only lived in the part where he was supposed to wipe something out of the justice system. the non-selective, partial, flat-rate lustrations of Minister Vladan Batic, who, of course, was supported by those who proposed the law, and were wrong in trade, so that these laws are applied to the part of the status of the person working in the judiciary, but are not applied to the work, which is most important for the citizens and in general for the functioning of the judiciary, as regards the jurisdiction of the courts. Apparently, they were formed, or the prospect was given to form appeals courts, or appeals, regardless of whether we were using single or plural, and the administrative court, and, of course, in 2001, the Serbian Radical Party convinced the Democratic Party of Serbia and the rest of the DOS not to do so, because it would not live in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that happened, and it will always happen when the Serbian Radical Party does not listen to what it proposes. Perhaps after the session, you will realize that you were wrong at the beginning of this session that you did not accept our proposal to set two points of the agenda by emergency procedure: a recommendation on our symbols and a bill that regulates that the Republic of Serbia should fulfil its obligation to the Hilandar monastery, i.e. to resuscitate and restore that monastery. You will do so with a delay to understand, but I am already used to these manners of the Democratic Party of Serbia, to submit their proposal to submit, to make the proposal known to them to delay to come up with a proposal, etc. That's what Serbian citizens have known a long time ago. It's well-known to them. It's just been said that reformers are coming. You see, if in 2001 you passed the Law and you again propose to amend that Law, that it enters into force in that part of the jurisdiction of the courts on 1 January 2007, I am telling you immediately - you could have written it in 2017, because you probably won't be able to reform our judicial system in the way you imagined it. Due to this selective application of new laws, we have a situation that for the past two years courts have changed their views on jurisdiction, so now, if status is the same parties, jurisdiction and the municipal court, and the trade court, appear. Consciously or unconsciously, you have caused further confusion in the judiciary and, of course, citizens rightly believe much less in the protection and legality of our courts. It was just said that this should be taken as an emergency. I agree that it is urgent, but I am surprised why you didn't propose it first, but you proposed it as a first step a draft law on amendments to the Law on selecting Members of the People. So is it possible that this law is more urgent to you than it is to regulate the right of citizens to exercise the control of legality and to protect their interests from the only authority that should give it the highest quality?- I'm sorry. You say, first step, I'm afraid of step two. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, this part of the current state of affairs, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, suits us, but does not suit the part where you mutilate the status of people working in the judiciary, their perspective, and you have opened a new space for new staffing. So we're talking again about the DOS-Vojislav Kostunica election list. There is little change in this composition that is in power, it is expected change, now there will be a new cleaning of personnel from the judiciary, by some system again, probably, some similarities, so there will be both Tabian and some other relations, especially in the First Municipal Court, where something is already hinted at in some other courts, and I have no intention of moaning over the fate of some presidents, they have long earned never to be judges, let alone the presidents of the courts. I warn you that we are spinning in a vicious circle and probably the purpose of all this happening and the electoral lists of DSS-Vojislav Kostunica is exactly that - the mountains were shaking, and the judiciary was destroyed, as all other institutions in this country were destroyed. So, if it's urgent, then he had to first this law, not the Law on selecting MPs. What about our suggestions? The SRS has been in a few years since...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1213	Mr. Krasic, please stick to the subject, don't talk about your suggestions, be kind and talk about the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1214	I'm talking about deadlines, please don't interrupt me, probably a little bit better on the agenda than I am, don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1215	There's so much to go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1216	You know, you're new, you need to understand the impulse that works in the National Assembly. You know, when a man wants to make a statement, he has some introduction, and then he's working it out, and he finally gives the conclusion, and with that conclusion, he convinces the audience to accept everything that he suggests from this pay phone. Don't interrupt me, I was just trying to convince you, here, I see half of this side has accepted these arguments, half the sides have accepted, people have reported that they've accepted the argument. The inevitable theme is an election list, inevitable. You see, you don't know, when this law was passed that's changing today, it was a major political trade. It came down to the following -- adopt the DSS bill's proposals, because they're good, because they were done by one of the advisors, and that was the only qualification. One other party supported it, because while he was a member, he represented it, and those who were most within the DOS said: well, we'll accept it, but if you vote some other laws. Please, we don't want to talk about constitutionality and legality when it comes to political trade. The result of this political trade is that today we have a situation to change these provisions of the law by system urgently - if not done, we have no courts, no troublesome jurisdiction, no falling decisions, people will have no quality protection before the court, that's what this is about. I'm just pointing to the hastyness of the move that comes from the DSS, that's imperfect, undeveloped moves, suggestions that deserve criticism and questioning, all that's fast, that's also short, please. So it was in 2001, it's the best law, so the High Council of Justice, and today we hear it doesn't exist, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, we don't talk about composition. Because of this composition, the SRS pointed to problems related to family relations and the situation that legal interns, some judges' children and some lawyers' children are lurking around the court, and children have no idea what the court is, or where it is. In the context of this story is also a change of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and all other regulations that you have removed from the mandatory work experience as a condition for establishing a working relationship and a choice on these functions. I warn you not to spin around again, and we're going round and round and we can only realize that after every power, our judiciary is worse, worse and worse! Then we get into a situation where some experts show up, and we had a chance to hear last year, that the court tax is one of the best incomes -- a simple tax that needs to ensure the seriousness of some court procedure, that whoever filed the lawsuit, that a serious man, is something symbolic, and that's becoming an impressive public income. That's what we're talking about. It is not a question of whether Serbs are complaining or not, the question is that a citizen is reporting to the court to protect someone's right and interests. You have no right to enter his motives for why he sued someone. You don't even let people get divorced today, they have to pay big taxes to get divorced. Dear Shormaz, from the scene, to protect our family! Yes, yes, you're the only one protecting, I see you protecting your family! You were in Hilandar to take a picture, and you didn't just vote to rebuild the Hilandar! It's the DSS. There's been a threat, citizens! It's a big danger! This is where we get people from the Democratic Party with the mourners: what we inherited, the hook, if we had known, would not have been accepted by the authorities. Well, why did you accept the authorities? Tomorrow they will appeal to their coalition partners, so you knew who you are and what an emergency move you are, an emergency procedure to change one member, here you are, and so it will be. Why didn't you change the Public Prosecution Act first, so the government doesn't choose deputy public prosecutors anymore, you won't change it, that suits you? It suits you, and you know who's a mess in the D.A.'s office, that you don't even know who the D.A. is anymore, or who the deputy is, three, four groups of changed people have...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1217	Please, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1218	I am not yelling, but I am pointing out to the citizens of Serbia what happened when this government with Vojislav Kostunica was made: there will be a lot of stories, a lot of songs, results, the worst, the worst, we will not have justice. That's why I'm warning you urgently to change one member. And why change one member? If you already had your bill, complete, why didn't you give it away? And before you know it, we started with a good proposal, so most of us changed, from one appeal to four. Why didn't you offer a full law with one court of appeals, let's see that concept of yours, but there's no concept. Someone just got out, so they say, 13 days is the government, so they couldn't achieve it. You went to the election with the established laws, you were a shadow government, a thick shadow, I guess something that government was doing in the shadows, I guess there's some bill that she did. It wasn't just for painting. You're looking for about 100 days, and what you need 100 days, what do you need 100 days, in 100 days to propose 50 laws amending transitional and final provisions, from 2007 to 2017. They were alive, and they saw it. Remember what's said, that's how it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1219	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1220	Just for a little while, as soon as possible, a few replicas to the esteemed gentleman, colleague Krasic, I had to get out of here immediately, because I was afraid, if he keeps this up, the poor guy has a heart attack to hit him and I said, "I'd better cut this debate..."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1221	Please, Mr. Ristivoevich...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1222	Dear colleague, Mr. Krasic, the election campaign was over there on December 28th. So, the criticism of the former government and so on, the state in which the rest of the country and the other state, is completely late. I understand, it was a complete place and you're right about most of the things you say, but simply, it was until December 28th. Now the topic on the agenda is simple, one law on changes and additions, or three, since the debate is united, you are simply too late. As for what's intervention, what's urgent, what's first, if you thought that the intervention changes of these laws were inappropriate, that there was a need for complete change, why didn't you suggest them: - no, but you came before this assembly first with an amendment of the law on the election of the President of the Republic, because you need to abolish the censorship. So you came first with it, because it's in your political interest, and here you move someone else to push their political interest through this assembly. At the group heads' consultations last Tuesday, we agreed that no one in Hilandar would take that accident into their mouths, because no one in Hilandar has a deed in this country and no one has the right to paraphrase that accident and try to get political points here because they're going to propose that renewal! We agreed there on some things: we agreed on a diary of our salaries here; we agreed that we would try to solve it completely, but that no one would go out for a pay phone and talk about it. You're the first to break it now, it's extremely incorrect: no one has the right to that monastery. He's none of us! That monastery is 800 years old, and it'll be another 800 years. Your name will be forgotten, Mr. Krasic. That monastery will still exist. You're making points on that accident! I don't have a word for it, I'm serious! It can be a different matter if it's about rebuilding that monastery. What you're doing, this is mildly said, a disaster. I think it would be really correct and appropriate to give 100 days to the new government. Nowhere in parliamentary practice is an example of not giving the new government a chance. If she's only been working for 13 days, it's normal that she hasn't been able to come out with complete solutions to all the problems she's encountered. It's natural and it's normal: give it 100 days, so when it doesn't show up and if it doesn't show up, go out, criticize, crash and stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1223	Mr. Krasic, you can only get a word in the Rules of Procedure, since there is no replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1224	This is Article 100(3), Mr. President. You can see he's a predecessor, I don't know why, but he's very insulting about expressing himself to me! I wasn't talking about him. I talked about the parliamentary group, expressed some political views about the MP group. Of course, it's my right to think about whether they're sleazy or not, whether they're like this or not. It's a matter of taste. Someone might like it or not, but please, you're going on personality and comparing me to Hilandar, don't do it, I don't deserve it. As for your arrangements as president, I don't know which groups, I have to tell you - there were more reasons to support our proposal to put this on the agenda, so during the debate, let the majority decide whether to vote or not. Please, take care, don't insult! I didn't insult you. I made sure I spoke in a third person, a single person or a plural, making sure I didn't convince you. I've captured the electoral list holder as much as he's a public figure and accepted to be with the name and last name on that list. Don't find yourself hurt. Secondly, when I was talking about that election list, I covered it so wide, here, people recognized it, so no one found themselves offended to replicate and point to something. President, look at Article 100(3) and warn this young colleague, since he's in the National Assembly for the first time, - he doesn't need to spoil something that's standard and behavior. You'll never hear me talk about other people's morals, nor will you hear me talk about some great taste, but some dry facts. Be careful when you come out here and compare someone or someone in particular you insult. I have not offended you, nor have I offended any MPs in this congregation. Even when I talk about the most serious things, even when I talk about people who are being treated with dangerous actions and I point to these actions, I never appoint them. Be careful, that's my advice. You're a young man, you probably want more in politics than in science to achieve, take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1225	Mr Krasic, I thank you for your correctness, and I remind you, I have warned the previous speaker, as I have warned the speakers every time they or shall leave the subject of the Rules of Procedure, or question the possible insult of any MP, and I will be consistent with that. In that sense, I ask all those who cried "wow," just before when it was a proposal for Hilandar, that it was not correct for their president of the parliamentary group, who arranged it with everyone else, and then failed to respect it. I pray things don't happen. I thank you again and we continue our work. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the joint principled search is concluded, I ask - do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want a word that did not exercise their right under Article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of the Courts You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the draft law amending the Law on the Law of Courts has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, does the proposing representative want to give the final word, in accordance with Article 138? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Judges You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending the Law on Judges has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, does the proposal's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organies in the Subsidisation of Organized Crimes, you have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, does the proposing's representative now want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA For this point of the agenda, you have made proposals on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were tabled by Serbian Radical Party MPs, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic, G17 Plus, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia. I suggest that all motions of the decision be subject to a single search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 135, they did not vote 52 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, acting unanimously to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on all proposals for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the rapporteurs want a word? (Employees Tomislav Nikolic, Bojan Pajtic, Goran Paunovic, Vojislav Mihajlovic, Dusan Prorokovic). The word wants Dusan Prophetović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1226	Just one technical thing: there's been a mistake at the Secretariat's office. The new member of the Constitutional Affairs Committee is not Professor Milos Jankovic, but Professor Miroslav Jankovic, so please make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1227	We're going to find this technical correction. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word, was submitted by only one MP, Mr Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1228	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, in the proposal of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group President Goran Paunovic, item 16 states that members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the Administrative Committee, Meko Omerovic, are to be relieved. The most natural and logical thing, you'll agree with me, when someone settles, I guess it's the elemental right, to be given at least for the sake of its resolution. The question I ask all of you, whether these reasons are principled or unprincipled, is why one such solution is proposed. Some of my esteemed colleagues remember me from the last call. I may be boring, but because of my colleagues in this meeting of the Serbian Parliament, I would remind myself that I was a member of the Administrative Committee in the past meeting of the Serbian Parliament. It may sound immodest, but I was one of the most regular members of the last convocation of the Administrative Committee, and it seems to me that I have fulfilled the consistent, fair and principled obligations of a member of the Administrative Board. I would remind you that as an MP for the Social Democratic Party, at the time of the DOS majority coalition, as a member of the Administrative Committee, I was against taking office as MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. We are now in the situation that we are facing, that the president of the parliamentary group, which I and my colleagues do not belong to, is proposing my resolution. So I ask the Proposer what is the real reason for proposing your solution to my resolution and what principles have you handled? It would be very good, I think it's very difficult for you, but because of me and my fellow Members, and especially for the public, to offer any logical explanation for the proposal for me to get rid of the membership of the Administrative Committee. Otherwise, in the absence of such an explanation, I am left to doubt, deliberately and loudly thinking in this highest house, that the motionary wants to establish such a personal structure in the Administrative Committee of the Serbian Assembly that could at any moment allow for a decision to be made, however it may be. I am sincerely terrified of the way you experience the work of the congregation and its organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1229	You want a word? Here you go. Mr. Paunovic in search or replica? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted the proposal, as well as the other parliamentary groups, to amend the composition in a number of committees, and in particular in our case, it is about changes in the 16 Assembly committees. We have assessed the work of MPs on certain committees so far. In some cases, the MPs expressed their desire to change certain committees and to meet them. In some cases, we have estimated that certain MPs do not adequately comply with the obligations provided and related to the work of certain committees of this assembly. In particular, my assessment as head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, which was proposed by Mr Mezu Omerovic for membership in the Administrative Committee, is that Mr Meho Omerovic did not adequately meet the obligations of the Administrative Committee and therefore this proposal was presented to the National Assembly. Mr Meho Omerovic has been personally informed of the reasons and at the same time as any other MP, who has been replaced by membership in a particular committee of the Assembly, has been offered membership in another appropriate committee. In the meantime, he didn't accept any. I expect that in the coming period, the next few days we will accept and that problem, for the greatest satisfaction of all of us, will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1231	There's no replica on the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1232	Mr. President, a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured in which Goran Paunovic has given himself the right to assess the work so far...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1233	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1234	Article 100 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament. Mr. Goran Paunovic has given himself the right to assess so far the work of counterpart Meh Omerovic, a member of the Administrative Board, and says he does not meet his obligations adequately. I admit I'm really in no condition to be a member of the four congregation committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1235	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to speak? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, I declare that Mr Meho Omerovic is an extraordinary member of the Administrative Committee, that there are no unwarranted absences, that the Administrative Committee has decided unanimously, except in two cases where the MPs of the Democratic Party were abstained. Now I'm interested in why you didn't like the fact that the Administrative Board made decisions unanimously. Why doesn't Mr. Paunovic like that Meho Omerovic voted the same way he did at the board meetings? If the party's position is that the voter does not meet his obligations well, then you too do not meet your obligations. You've been to the same sessions, and you vote the same and I don't see the difference. This is about something else, and it needs to be said in plain and clear terms. Currently, those who do not exercise power in the Serbian government and have MPs here, so the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party have seven members of the Administrative Committee. Those who exercise power have eight. The eighth is Meho Omerovic. If Meho Omerovic is angry, eight of them also have those who do not exercise power, and you can anger Meh Omerovic if you do not work in the Rules of Procedure, if you are not doing what is right and if you are trying to make decisions on the Administrative Board undemocraticly! If it depends on our vote, Meho Omerovic will remain a member of the Administrative Committee because it is the only MP without whose consent is being changed, and his mandate does not stop because he has moved to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly or for some other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1237	Anyone else want a word? Replica, Mr. Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1238	I thank Mr Nikolic for helping Mr Meji Omerovic explain himself, among other things, and why I asked that the member of the Administrative Committee, Mr Meko Omerovic, no longer be a member of this committee. I am still standing by that the Administrative Committee should not be used to those things that it has done in the previous Parliament's meeting. I don't think we've had such problems in the work of the Assembly and the Administrative Committee, but I think that the G17 Plus candidate, Ms. Ksenija Milivojevic, who is to replace Mr. Meh Omerovic, on the Administrative Committee, is better served as a member of Parliament and as representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. At the same time, I would remind Mr Nikolic that it is not correct for the parliamentary groups to influence the composition of the Assembly committee, when we are together at the beginning of this call for the assembly committee to be the only right of the parliamentary group concerned. This would be a mix-up, in part, in decision G17 plus to be defined as a member of the committees of this assembly. That is why I believe that this proposal and this explanation stand absolutely and that the Serbian Parliament should accept the proposal G17 plus and that Mr Meho Omerovic is replaced by the Administrative Committee. On the other hand, I remind you this is the only case. We have a hundred amendments from all parliamentary groups and there was no problem except in this case. I don't think there's much reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1239	Here you go, Mr. Omerovic. I ask that MPs refrain from comparing each other with the MPs. For me, all MPs are the same, Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Omerovic, Mr. Paunovic are exactly the same members of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1240	Replication to Tom Nikolic's presentation. I agree with you that all MPs should be the same, however, with this proposal by Goran Paunovic, we place some MPs in a slightly higher position. So some MPs are able and adequate to be members of many committees, and some are not adequate to be in this one. Incidentally, "in that one I'm a scale tab." If I were to ask someone who suggested me to get rid of the Administrative Board, could I also be a member of the Finance Committee, - or would you say again that I couldn't, because there would be a tab on the scale. So I think this is about something very important. Indeed, the only MP who at today's session of the Serbian Parliament did not give his consent to change membership in a particular committee is me, but simply because of the way and because of all this that has been done, and what Mr Goran Paunovic tried to explain to this parliament. I think it's rude to take a man off the board just because you think at some point he's not going to vote the way you like it, or maybe you think that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, on the Administrative Board, there should be some important points of the agenda, such as taking away or removing the immunity of certain people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1241	Thank you. I understand that in the meantime you will give consent, since you are opposed to the MP not giving his consent. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been declared for the word and since the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have responded, have exercised their right, is there anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89? A Rules of Procedure who wants a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a unique search of the motions for decisions, do the rapporteurs want the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on proposals for decisions in general in the voting day. We move to agenda item 5 - Proposal for a decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the Administrative Board. I remind you that according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the word rapporteur – National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Administrative Committee want?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1242	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, you have not yet put the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, and you have not even bothered to submit your proposal for a Rules of Procedure that you would likely put into the agenda, so that we are working on a Rules of Procedure that is everything, just not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the DOS Rules of Procedure, which found it in 2001, but changed it harshly on three occasions: for the first time on the DSS proposal, the second twice without the DSS proposal, for the third time even with its opposition. They are so rudely maimed with rights that it could sooner be called some rule of procedure against the MPs than the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The dilemma that the Administrative Board has and which it wanted to resolve before you decided to change the Rules of Procedure is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Many changes must be made: and the right of the President of the Assembly to exclude the MP, and those provisions that the Constitutional Court has already considered, has annulled those of which he did not wish to declare, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure is something that was urgent and which should be changed today or in the voting day in line with the proposal of the Administrative Committee. Under the current Rules of Procedure, and here, the Administrative Board has not respected it for 15 days, the Administrative Board is required 24 hours after a prominent violation of the Rules of Procedure by the MP to make a decision and to deliver it to the National Assembly by appeal to the MP. On the first day we had seven objections to the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I see that everyone who doesn't know the Rules of Procedure has already learned Article 100, it's the easiest thing for them to say. Believe me, the Administrative Board would have to sit on the subject of complaints only at the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and three times we sat unsuccessfully, we couldn't secure the quorum, and we said that we would no longer be able to resolve it, but to propose to the National Assembly that it should decide on the day of voting on all objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedures that came between two days to vote. I know that's not the solution either, but what you're going to do when the Rules of Procedure is so maimed, we no longer need 126 MPs in the O.R. to work, and as soon as there are no 126 MPs, there's nothing to decide on, nor any objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you've directed the Assembly to run one business in certain days, one job in front of 84 MPs, one job in front of 126 we'll try to convince you of the SRS Rules of Procedure that and that's wrong, but it's urgent if you want everything to be in line, at least with such a Rules of Procedure. I advocate that we always work according to what's right. I'm often not happy with what it's like, but, well, right now, this Rules of Procedure should be working with him, and I'm really not going to schedule any more meetings of the Administrative Committee! You could argue 50 times today that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and we should just have a meeting and discuss it. I imagine the Administrative Board as a congregation body that needs to be involved in a lot of serious business. I suggest you adopt these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and at the same time I ask those who have a majority in this assembly to at least edit the work of the National Assembly at sessions. If you are ashamed to discuss, write amendments, discuss the draft rules of procedure submitted by the SRS, it doesn't matter. Please submit your proposal to the Rules of Procedure. Whenever you're embarrassed that she wrote something to the SRS, which beats you to it, which works faster than you do, you file yours. I heard today that there was little time for the government to prepare some laws. Whoever is seriously involved in politics has saved laws; whoever participates in elections and accounts to win, he has saved laws, saved ministries. What do you think we've been writing since the Assembly was established?- I'm sorry. No, we've got it stored. We've been waiting to form a government, - it didn't work out. The government is formed, and we offer our legal proposals, because we are not selfish, so I insist on the Rules of Procedure and also on the Law on Local Self-Government, even if you consider it irrelevant. There is more than half of Serbia's political, economic life in local self-government. Don't ever ignore the Law of Local Self-Government! Once again, I ask you to make the election at as many levels as possible at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1243	I'm asking you to go back to the subject. Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry to interrupt, since it's 18 hours, would you finish or should we interrupt and continue tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1244	Don't interrupt me while I'm talking. Eighteen hours is no reason for you to interrupt the MP. Have patience, I'll finish now, but don't interrupt me just because you thought to watch the clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-03-16-0.u1245	Thank you. Since 18 hours have passed, we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 199 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 119 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Ivica Dačić, Bajram Omeragic, Esad Djudjevic, Slobodan Vuković and Bosko Ristic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, they don't. I thank you. Since we have completed a unique search of the motion for a decision, does the rapporteur want a final word? (He's not present – he doesn't want to. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on judicial fees, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The amendments that will be filed until the start of the original search will be sent to you during the session. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go.
