ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3549	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Rakovic and Milan Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3550	Mr. President, dear colleagues, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 78 and 81. Rules of Procedure, I don't think there's any need to read, it would take me a lot of time. The president knows, and so does the other colleagues, what that applies to. Besides, you all have your Rules of Procedure ahead of you. I think the basic rules of conduct would require the President of the Assembly to explain to the MPs, who have been waiting for the beginning of this session since 10.00 hours. For the sake of the public who is following our work and who has the right to know what its representatives are doing in parliament, instead of the speaker of the assembly, I will say that this session is scheduled for today - a vote at 10.00 hours and the start of a new session, with two agenda points, for 12.00 hours, which the president scheduled two days ago, although we are in a regular session. You know very well that we have not scheduled any sessions within a business period of seven days, but always after - application, so MPs cannot prepare as well as the agenda deserves. Half an hour ago, we're getting a piece of paper saying that this session is being postponed for Monday and another item of the agenda is being inserted -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, which never came to parliament at all. The president can confirm that he didn't get that bill himself, so I don't know why he could put it on the agenda. Lawmakers have also not received a bill, they do not know whether it is in a regular procedure, whether it is under urgent procedure, when they are due to submit the amendments. We, MPs of the SRS, know very well why this session is late, and should also know Serbia's public. He is late because the SPO is blackmailing other government members to have this agenda item on Monday to enter the hall today to vote in favour of last-session laws. Your blackmails are of no interest to us, but don't say then that the SRS MPs are obstructing parliament's work, leaving parliament to submit many amendments, that the sessions take a long time, that it costs the state. This is costing the state the most. These mutual blackmails of yours will cost the citizens of Serbia the most. We strongly protest this kind of violence and this demeaning of the people's representatives. (President: Time. ) We ask the President of the Assembly to forget this way of working, to work in the Rules of Procedure, and not only declares himself to respect the Rules of Procedure but also to show it in its work. Otherwise, since the violence has already begun and is expanding... (President: Once again - time is up.) We're not in a taxi car, so let's knock on that chaoger of yours. Mr. President, this violence has spread to the work of individual committees. We warn you on this occasion that we will not tolerate such a way of working and violence. You have an example behind you. Those who tried violence, a large number of MPs who supported the government, to achieve something, have achieved it very quickly to collapse. (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, four minutes have passed, finish. I think you'll collapse a long, long time ago, thanks to the way you behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3551	People's MP Bojan Pajtic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so I will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3552	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. From 10.00 hours we wait for the session to begin, until 15.00 hours. That may be funny to someone, but it points to the flagrant disrespect of the Rules of Procedure and the MPs in this assembly. I think the least fitting at this point is the carnival atmosphere in this room. Article 80 says it is impossible to postpone the session of the National Assembly in this way. Article 80(2) says it is impossible to postpone this session at this time, unless it is necessary to consider amendments on committees. This is not necessary for consideration, as amendments have been considered on the committees responsible. Even if they weren't considered, it's completely impossible to postpone a session that was scheduled with two agenda points and take place with three agenda points. It's a new session, not a postponement of an existing session. So what's now done, not only isn't violence, but it doesn't exist as an act. It is impossible for the National Assembly to start working on a agenda like this on Monday. The National Assembly must conclude a session scheduled for today at 1200 hours, in the letter of this Rules of Procedure. I'm also advocating a violation of article 157 which discusses an emergency procedure. It is impossible to propose the law only by an emergency procedure, as the Rules of Procedure in Rule 157 decidently states that only if the health, or the lives of people, is at risk of the country's safety and if the functioning of organs and organisations requires it. No law found before this parliament, which was adopted in the previous two months, was such a character. Every time and when any law is proposed, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. What we are doing now is completely destroying the business provisions that regulate the appointment of a session of the National Assembly. I appeal to you, although I do know that the force of most people can do anything, that we do not start a session on Monday. It was enough that the MPs and the positions and the opposition, without any explanation, sat in this room for five hours. We have absolutely no interest in your differences. That should not even interest MPs who make up the majority in this House. If there is a problem with what the law is proposing, the problem should be resolved within the government. The right for us, as MPs, is to discuss certain points of the agenda, to submit amendments to the agenda points, but only on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Time, Mr. Pititice. ) So what this parliament was supposed to do is start at 10.00 hours with a vote and start at 1200 hours session, as defined by the agenda. The delay, with the addition of the agenda, is something absolutely the Rules of Procedure do not know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3553	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic. I'm going to unify the answer, please let's say it's the 11th session, there's no reason to talk to the Rules of Procedure about the 12th session. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3554	I think there is reason to also talk about 3, 5, 7, 10, 11, 12 and 13 sessions, because here in continuity the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. In order to have a comprehensive insight and something that represents the logical continuation of the previous injuries mentioned in this pay phone, I will just remind you that the SRS has sent, or submitted, the official procedure to the National Assembly about 15 draft laws. They were filed from 2, 3, 4 February, until the end of April of this year. They all point out to the Rules of Procedure the prescribed deadlines in which the National Assembly had to put this proposal on the agenda. Unfortunately, even after several interventions, directed primarily to the Legislative Committee, to consider these draft laws and to deliver their execution to the President of the National Assembly, a number of times from this speaker was repeated the request of the SRS MPs to the National Assembly, where we showed him that something strange was happening. And now I'm potentialing that injury and I'm saying that unless the committees want to schedule a session with these agenda points, then the president of the National Assembly is required to call the committees in charge, to take these proposals into consideration and put them on the agenda, that is, by regular procedure, because we are in a regular session, according to chronology as they are submitted, put them on the agenda, so let the Assembly decide whether to adopt them or not. In this way, absolute priority is given to party proposals that are in power and the government's proposals, not to repeat what my predecessors said, it happened today that we got a postponement of today's session and an appointment of a new session Monday with three points of the agenda. The material for the third item of the agenda hasn't even been won yet. It's something inadmissible. If that is the way it is done, then I am right to ask the question – what does this Rules of Procedure serve us? Now I can ask why the new majority formed in the Assembly is not willing to bring new Rules of Procedure and in one quality way arrange the work of MPs in the National Assembly. I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the appointment of the sitting, that is, Article 80 and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the adoption of laws, i.e. from Articles 131 to 140, where both deadlines and obligations are prescribed, as to what to do. Since I have received an answer on the Legislative Committee – we will see, I insist that this injury be declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3555	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I apologize to all of you, both to yourselves and to you, for having to wait, according to Article 94, for consulting parliamentary groups. The eleventh session where we are now participating from 10.00 to 15.00 hours late. One more apology and I pray that such things don't happen anymore. When it comes to the 12th session, I do not only remind myself that in the previous session, the agenda has been complemented by new points, but, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will have the opportunity to check the explanation for which the agenda has been updated and suggested that the session be postponed, because obviously we have not finished the eleventh, and to come out to meet the MPs who have proposed a large number of amendments, while at the same time allowing the professional service material of a law that has arrived to be shared. I expect he'll be divided by you by now. This is about a lot of big law. Mr. Krasic, I accept your suggestion. Thank you. Over the next week, I'll schedule all the committees that haven't come forward on the agenda. It's my duty and of course I'll respect it. We're continuing the work of the 11th session. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3556	Mr. President, again, Article 80, 81, 82. Are you going to tell us if you got the bill that you want to put on the agenda on Monday? Here, in front of all of us, tell us if the government has sent you this proposal. The government has not yet made a decision to refer this bill officially. He's still in the draft phase of the law. You're putting something on the agenda that you didn't get, and you owe it to all of us to say that you were forced by the SPO parliamentary group to do it, or deny it. But we will see on the material and we have a way to find out if the government's sitting, whether it's made that decision, whether it's sent to Parliament or not. It's up to you to show how democratic you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3557	Thank you. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm trying to speak Serbian loudly. Before you left for the pay phone, I just informed you that the Professional Service is multiplying the law the government passed yesterday, which arrived this morning and that you will receive it during the session. If you want to see for yourself, as I accept curiosity, please Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly, Mr. Parrish, will bring you the original document to look at it. I have no reason to deceive the Assembly. Why would I bring out the incorrect data that you insist on when we have the correct one? They are correct that the government passed a bill yesterday, sent by emergency procedure to the Assembly, and you will now receive it. Thank you. We're continuing the work of the 11th session. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all agenda points of the 11th session of the 1st regular session in 2004, we regret the decision. We move on to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on NATIONAL CORRPORATION FOR CREDIT SURVEILLANCES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting to the vote the Bill on National Credit Insurance Corporation, in principle. For 140, against 74, two of the 216 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MPs Zarko Obradovic and Bojan Kekic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted to Articles 6 and 9. The bill's proposal, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill's proposal had become amendments to the members of the 8th National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Bojan Kekic and to the 16th National MP Bojan Kekic. To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 126, there were no votes of eight, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 128, there were no votes of eight, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 129, 10 of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, 12 of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 128, it did not vote 16 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 12. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 107, with eight abstentions, it did not vote 12 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 121, seven of the 217 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 122, there were no votes of eight, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the National Credit Insurance Corporation bill, as a whole. For 140, against 74, they didn't vote two of the 216 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill on the National Credit Insurance Corporation. We move to a decision on the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the insurance bill, in principle. For 127, against 87, two of the 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs: Milisav Petronijevic on Article 14; Miloje Savivić on Article 39; Zarko Obradović on Articles 142 and 237; together Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic on Article 243; Igor Mirović on Articles 142 to 180, submitted on 4 May 2004, and that the integral part of the bill became an amendment to Article 151, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Miloje Savic, with a legal and technical editorial, and the amendment to Article 243, which was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 127, two of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruždić-Trifunović proposed one amendment to the title above Article 18, as well as Articles 25, 32, Items 1, 34, 35, 37, 39, with the exception of Articles 4, 41 to 44, 48, 49, 51 to 54, 57, 59, 73, 76, 78, with the exception of headings 3, 79, 81, 82, with the exception of headings 3, 83, 86, 88, 91, 94, 95, 96, 96, 115, 118, 118, 129, 122, 142, 142, 144, 182, 187 to 191, 197 to 201, 210, 213, 214, 216, 216, 217, 221, 222, 222, 225, 226, 229, 230 to 237, 241 and 244. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 83, against 125, six of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On Article 18. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 84, against 128, two of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 24. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 83, against 127, four of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 28. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vladan Vukevic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 85, against 125, a abstentioned one, three of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 84, against 126, four of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 39. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 84, against 125, four of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 78th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 19, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 69, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 13, against 125, 69 of the 207 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 13, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 72, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 12 against 127, it did not vote 74 out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic to Article 113. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 11, versus 125, it was not 78, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The amendment was submitted by MP Vukkovic Slobodan. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 12, against 125, 76 of the 213 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. To Article 119. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 79, against 126, there were no 11 votes, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 134. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 10 against 125, he did not vote 81 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Mirovic, one amendment, proposed amendments in Chapters 7 and 142 to 180. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 79, against 125, there were 14 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruždić-Trifunović proposed that a new 17 members (142a, 142b, 142v, 142g, 142d, 142d, 142d, 142e, 142z, 142z, 142i, 142j, 142k, 142l, 142l, 142l, 142m, 142m, 142n, 142n, 142n, 142j) The Committee on Finance and the proposing representative was not accepted by this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 14, against 127, it was not 77, of the 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 143. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic Trifunovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 12, against 128, it did not vote 79, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 151. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 78, 17 of the 218 MPs did not vote against 123. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 152. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 85, against 125, 9 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Igor Mirovic, one amendment, with a correction, proposed amendments in Articles 182, 187 to 201, 204, 209 to 214, 216, 217, 221, 222, 225, 228, 229, 231, 233, 237, 241 and 244. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 80, against 127, 12 out of 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 196. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vuksanovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 13, against 124, there were no votes of 80, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dobrica Jankovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 228 and 228. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 13, against 122, 83 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 228. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 78, 17 voted against 123, a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 234. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 73, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic to Article 234. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 108, 35 of the 219 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic to Article 235. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 119, one abstention, did not vote 23, a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic to Article 237. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 122, they did not vote 22, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 243rd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 119, they did not vote 24 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the insurance bill, in general. For 127, against 87, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of insurance, in general. We move on to a decision on the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE END OF THE SERBIA National Bank Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law supplementing the law on the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. For 124, against 84, it did not vote 11 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 124, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11, a total of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in general. For 127, against 83, six out of 216 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in general. We move to a decision on the 4th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON COMPLETE OF THE LAW ON THE MARKET OF PURPOSE AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, in principle. For 130, against 71, it did not vote 11 out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The representatives of the proposing, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 123, seven of the 212 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, in general. For 122, against 72, six out of 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Market of Papers and other financial instruments in general. We move to a decision on the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in principle. Since the electronic system shows that there is no quorum, that we can't decide on this, I'm taking a break of ten minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session. We stopped at the fifth point of the agenda when we realized there was no quorum. Please see if there's a quorum now, so we can access the work. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. We can't start until there's no quorum, as no voting can be done until there's no quorum, and that's why the quorum is at first determined. By applying the electronic system, we've determined that there are 140 MPs in the O.R., which means we can continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you violated a member of the Rules of Procedure because you were obliged to give me your word 15 minutes ago. Here, you've managed to collect more MPs than you normally need. With a combination and a combination -- we might find a copy, which we're going to ask for, about the presence of MPs. I must also warn you that the general public hears that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement did not in principle pass at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, on 21 May 2004. I must conclude this because you have, in the most harsh way possible, misused the position you are in and as chairman of the Assembly, you have first started the voting process, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, can last 15 seconds using an electronic voting system. In the 29th second you completed the voting process and said, I quote: "we are finishing the vote on the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on Public Procurement in principle", and then you looked completely at the monitor, you saw that there are 124 "yes", one "no" and you did not do what was your presidential and your constitutional obligation. Mr Markovic, even Natasa Micic knew this before you, because she was in the same situation twice. Once there was a law on the agenda and once there was one of the amendments to the proposed laws on the agenda. Even she didn't dare do what you did today. Instead of finding out that the law has not passed and that it has been announced, and that was your obligation under Article 115(5), which says that the result of each vote is shown on monitors in the National Assembly Hall, you have not done it, but have, by terminating the session and canceling its extension in 15 minutes, committed the most serious violation of the Rules of Procedure. The SRS parliamentary group is demanding that the political, unfortunately, institution in our country -- the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which we know is quick to declare within 24 hours. That political court would have to give its assessment of what you did today. You have shown that you are prepared to commit the worst possible abuses, to use that term, and that is indeed so, because the votes of the citizens have been passed on to the MPs, to steal votes in the National Assembly. You must know, it is now your obligation, no matter what you advise, and be assured that you have been wrongly advised, to realize that the law on amendments to the Law on Public Procurement has fallen in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time. That's what you have to do. Solve the problem of your laziness, incompetent and sour coalitions elsewhere. (President: National MP Jovanovic, time is up. I ask the messengers not to receive it). The law has not passed, and it is your duty to say so, otherwise you will bear, by the Constitution and by the law, the consequences. It's a felony, not just your responsibility in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3560	The president of the assembly is obliged to provide an explanation when there is a suspicion that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Sometimes, as you see before, an hour ago, that explanation implies that you have to send material evidence to convince the "faithless Tom." I quote you Article 80. The constitution, since it is an obligation to work under the Constitution, which says, "The National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs, if the Constitution does not provide for a special majority." Most of the total number of MPs is 126 MPs. According to Article 82(3), I will have to quote, in order to make it clear to those who do not: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when adopting the minutes from the previous session and setting up the agenda, as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly." Article 115: "Decision is considered to have been made... ", whether the law has passed, fallen or that some decision has passed or fallen, "... if more than half of the identified MPs voted for it, that is, the Constitution provides for the majority." You're absolutely right. There was a quorum at the start of the vote, and I waited 29 seconds for it to be confirmed. Turns out it was clear on the monitors, which is the same thing as Article 115 paragraph 5. (The results of each vote appear on monitors), as you have confirmed, that there were 125 MPs in the hall. So, during the vote, it turns out you can't vote. Then, of course, I had to take a break to establish a quorum, because the Assembly couldn't work unless there were 126 MPs present. I don't know if this explanation pleases you. If it doesn't please you, we can vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the end. Do you want a word in the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Allow Miss Jovanovic to tell you what she thinks is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no reason for this. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3561	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, at least you'll be calm when this flimsy coalition of yours isn't. I must warn you at first, in my 14th second now, because unlike you, I am counting very precisely seconds, to be maximumly patient and tolerated, if I call on a member, if I quote part of the Rules of Procedure or a position, it does not enter my time for discussion and do not next time, if I do it in three minutes and in the first second, to remind me that my time has expired, because the time of Serbian radicals is just coming. As for Article 82. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, you have just jumped into your own mouth, because you have done something called the most cruel violation of the constitution and the law. Mr Markovic, after five hours, you found that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the voting day that you set out, there is a constitutionally foreseen majority. The SRS MPs in the highest number were here today. We participated in the voting process, and then, after the final vote on the Charter of Values Act, I have to remind you, to refresh your memory, to put the amendments and the addition of the Public Procurement Act in principle. Mr. Markovic, whatever you do, Vučetic and your political constitutional court do not prejudge as Vučetic does the Constitutional Court's decision, but we will start this dispute if you do otherwise and do not realize that the law has failed. Mr. Markovicu, the whole of Serbia saw that the MPs of the SRS were here. It's a risk for you to get involved in the process of voting with the nocturnal majority. Mr. Markovic, you said – I am putting the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Public Procurement, in principle. You broke the Rules of Procedure, you waited 15 seconds. We don't need to know what happened in those 15 seconds, and you said at 29 you were taking a break. The SRS MPs, using their democratic right, and we were in the O.R., pulled out their cards and refused to participate in the voting process. There's been a gravest abuse. You had to, and yet I remind you that even so, Natasa Micic did, to realize that the law has fallen and that it can't talk about "post-festum". It's not a schoolgirl, so now, take the dots, it's no good. This is the highest legislative body, the Serbian Parliament. You have to, Mr. Markovic, to find out, everything else would be legal, political, whatever you want, violence, I warn you, the criminal act you're doing, no matter how wrong those of your coalition groups are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3562	Thank you. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. I really didn't want to charge you, I'm not asking you to vote for the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you've stated, Miss Jovanovic, I didn't notice. You have just found that SRS MPs have violated Article 82(4) by which the MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the O.R. by inserting an identification card. I believed it was done. If there was a intentional breach of the Rules of Procedure on your part, I didn't notice. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3563	Mr. President, I call on Article 100 of the legendary attitude 1, that the emissaries are obliged to address each other with respect. I really didn't give a shit about what we just heard at the pay phone. Let's go to a healthy logic. If the SRS MPs were inside, as Miss Jovanovic says, then the law passed, because the SRS MPs are a minority, they have very few MPs, only 80 in the Assembly and cannot be ruled and powerful. There are few of you and you are the opposition, and that's why you can't pass the laws. If you were, then 124 passed the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3564	Thank you. I apologize, I must, because it is an obligation to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to remind myself that you are wrong, because the decision could not be made, because it is considered to be made if it was voted by more than half of the identified, or by the Constitution, most of them. It was not possible to identify SRS MPs. Since the Parliament in the voting day cannot work unless 126 MPs exist, its work must be suspended immediately as soon as it is established. It was established before the vote was even completed. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3565	Unfortunately, Mr. President, the form is once very important. That Article 82, in paragraphs 3 and 4, says that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when adopting the minutes from the previous session, setting the agenda, as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. You found that at the beginning of today's session. The quorum is determined by the application of the Elketron voting system, by the fact that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting an identification card into the dispatch unit. You've come to realize, and we've admitted that we've been in the O.R., that we haven't identified ourselves. There's a sanction on this Rules of Procedure. Please state the measure provided for by the Rules of Procedure. We're not running away from responsibility. But, therefore, the next position, the electronic system has shown how many MPs there are in the hall, he says – if the electronic voting system is not in office – you did not realize that it is not in office, so it was in office – what is being notified by the President of the National Assembly by the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. The fact that you're not up to the function, that you didn't count us, that's your problem. The system worked, it showed that the law didn't go through. It's our right not to identify ourselves. What can I do to you? Pull Mr. Dacic out of the election campaign, let him sit here and vote for your laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3566	Thank you. Since we have jointly found that the electronic system has shown that there has been no quorum, do you insist that the Assembly in the voting day declares whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I pray that the assembly at the end of today’s voting day declare whether there have been injuries. Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, Ivica Dacic is a National MP and head of a parliamentary group. Unlike some others, he doesn't have an elder outside his own party and no one can pull him out, as you think. If you still think it can, try it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3568	Since we've established that we have a quorum, we can continue our work. We move to a decision on the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and PURPOSE OF Public Procurement Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in principle. For 129, they did not vote 34, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, National MPs Milutin Svetinović and Slavoljub Matic withdrew the amendment that they submitted together to Article 50. The draft law, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill had become an amendment together submitted by the MPs Milutin Salesovic and Slavoljub Matic to Article 20. It's a bill of law. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 128, it did not vote 15 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 14. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Svedovic and Slavoljub Matic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 113, there was no vote of 160, of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 128, of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lalic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 130, 15 of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 20. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 127, they did not vote 74 out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 26. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 17 of the 218 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30. The amendment was submitted by MP Srjo Komazec. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, there were no 18 votes, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 48. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Martic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 76, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, in general. For 145, against one, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 72 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. We move to a decision on the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON ACCIATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in principle. For 127, against 91, one of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Vitomir Milosevic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 4. The bill's proposal, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the bill's proposal had become an amendment to Article 3, with a correction submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. To Article 2. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Hranislav Peric and Vitomir Milosevic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 112, 15 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 127, they did not vote three, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. For 127, against 92, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, in general. We move on to a decision on the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. For 128, against 91, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 2 which, in the same text, has been submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Zoran Krasic and the amendment to Article 7 who, in the same text, have been submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Milko Stimac and Dragoljub Stamenkovic. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 127, two of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against 106, of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 125, they did not vote three, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 127, two of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 115, two abstentions, nine of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 125, they did not vote four out of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Bozidar Koperivica submitted to the 44th Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 125, they did not vote three, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 45th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 127, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 111 against 108, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 46th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 125, he did not vote one of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 46. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 95, against 116, 9 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 47. The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. 93, v 124, were not voted by three, of 220 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 47. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 91, against 121, 8 of the 220 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 47. The amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 109 against 95, three abstentions, 12 out of 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 48. The amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Djuric. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. . For 92, against 122, they did not vote four out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 49. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Proposer Representative have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 88, against 116, 15 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 92, against 126, one of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in general. For 127, against 91, one of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prescribing Procedure and Tax Administration in general. We move on to a decision on the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE REGISTRATION OF THE EDUCATION OF THE INDICATORS After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the registration of economic operators in principle. . For 143 against two, they did not vote 73 of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that MP Jovan Palalic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 6(1) of point 9 and that during the search of the Law proposal in the particulars of the amendment, he withdrew: MP Jovan Todorovic to Article 4; MPs Marko Krstin, Išpanović Istvan and Vladimir Homan to Article 4 and MP Vojkan Tomic to Article 61. To Article 2. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. For 87, against 127, a abstentioned one, three of the 218 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting it to a vote. For 16, v. 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 74, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137, against 73, three abstentions, six, a total of 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 127, 76 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 8th Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 127, a abstentioned one, three, a total of 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 126, the three abstentions, were not voted on by 12, a total of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 124, they did not vote 22 out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 19 of the 219 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 17 of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 13. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 15 of the 215 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 128, it did not vote 13, out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 20th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, it did not vote 15 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 125, it did not vote 16 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 125, it did not vote 16 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, it did not vote 14 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 25. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 26. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 27. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, it did not vote 15 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 28. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, it did not vote 14 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 29. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 128, it did not vote 13, out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 31. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, it did not vote 15 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 39. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 128, it did not vote 13, out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 55. The amendment was submitted by MP Milko Stimac. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 112, against 86, with two abstentions, did not vote 15, out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. To Article 67. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 108, it did not vote 11 out of 215 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 69. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 70. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 123, 18 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 74. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103 against 98, it did not vote 13, of the 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 74. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 125, it did not vote 15 out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 75. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 12 of the 213 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 76. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 12 of the 213 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, John Day, submitted to the 81st Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 12 of the 213 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 127, 12 of the 213 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 126, 15 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 126, 16 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 126, 14 of the 214 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the registration of economic operators in general. For 138, against 76, of 214 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the registration of economic operators in general. We move on to a decision on the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON AGENCY FOR EDUCATION REGISTERS As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the Agency for Economic Registers in principle. For 138, against 74, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 125, 12 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 126, there were no 11 votes, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 122, there was no 18 vote, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 127, it did not vote 11 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3569	I propose to the National Assembly that we decide to extend the work of today's session to the end of the vote on all points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-21-0.u3570	Thank you. I am putting the motion to vote on the Rules of Procedure, to extend the working time until the end of the vote on all the 11th session points. Three out of 129 MPs voted for 126. I find that the National Assembly has decided to continue its work until the end of the 11th session decision. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, it did not vote 11 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 6. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 125, 12 of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 7. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 124, 14 of the 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 8. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Zak 71, against 126, did not vote 12 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran antiquity. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 127, there were no votes of eight, of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 10. The amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Excuse me, please, just for a moment, please repeat the vote because the results have been deleted from the screen. I'd like a representative of the Professional Service, please hold for a moment. To Article 10. The amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 126, there were no 11 votes, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 11 The amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, it did not vote 10 out of 208 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 12. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 13. The amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 124, 12 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 14. The amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 68, against 125, 15 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 15. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 125, it did not vote 13, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 15. The amendment was submitted by MP Milka Silaev. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 121 against 73, it did not vote 14, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. To Article 16. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 70, against 128, it did not vote 10 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on the draft law on the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. For 135, against three, did not vote 36, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a law on the Agency for Economic Registers. We move on to a decision on the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amendments and Complementary Laws since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, in principle. For 127, against 11, it did not vote 68 out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 11, against 124, 27 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after article 2. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 123, abstention one, not four, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote one out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Counter 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 126, one of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Counter 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Counter 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 123, three of the 126 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Gordana Gajic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one against 127, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 34. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 35. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 36. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 38. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting it to a vote. Against 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the gallanty of the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on infringements in general. For 128, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Violations in general. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on four infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which were attended by MPs during the session. Since the session pointed to violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. 1. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 10 May 2004, at 12.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 142 and 143. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 118, three abstentions were not voted by four, out of 116 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. 2. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 18 May 2004, at 13:30 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly of Predrag Markovic and the chairman of Vojislav Mihailovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, had done a violation of the Rules of Procedure by not applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the use of offensive expressions in the presentation of MP Dusan Mrvos. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the Rules of Procedure is injured. For one, against 122, three abstentions, of 112 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. 3. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 21 May 2004, at 14.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 80 and 131 to 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Wait a minute, please, is there a quorum? Please, 126, yes. Against 117, three abstentions, not seven, out of 117 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. 4. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 21 May 2004, at 16:45, pointed to a violation of members 82 and 115. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the Rules of Procedure is injured. Against 126, one of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 11th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
