ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u564	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, 186 MPs were reported. Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerovic, Sanja Cekovic and Vojislav Kostunica; (before noon) Aleksandar Vlahovic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Selection of People's MEPs (the sequel in principle) The word has a People's MP Vojislav Milajić, followed by the National MP Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u565	Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator of this law wanted to solve four groups of problems concerning the way the MPs were elected. The first group of problems concerns the removal of the polling post and the vote of voters who are unable to come to the polling post and do their civic duty. It refers to the powerless and sick persons, and in principle this proposal is acceptable, with certain amendments and corrections. You have to accept the proposal so those people can vote freely. The second proposal concerns persons, voters in the maintenance of criminal sanctions in detention units and the procedure for their vote, thus reducing the abstinence of the entire electoral body. The third category of persons who are allowed to vote is our citizens who have a residence abroad and the country's residence. It is also trying to allow more of our citizens, who are currently resident abroad, to fulfil their civic duty. The problems that arise here and that he tried to solve the proposal, but in our view unsuccessfully, they could come down to a few things. First, polling stations, meaning polling stations are proposed by the foreign ministry, and a decision is made by the Republic Election Commission. As a rule, the vote takes place in diplomatic and consular representations, and exclusively in special polling stations. The proposal for these special polling stations is made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and adopted by the Republic Election Commission. Election committee members, again in the foreign ministry's opinion, are determined by the Republic Election Commission. The chair of the electoral committee shall be determined by the rules laid down in the order of the graduate lawyers of the members of the diplomatic and consular offices. As can be seen, the Republic Election Commission makes all these decisions on a proposal or recommendation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Some of the speakers mentioned yesterday the figures that 150,000 of our citizens who do not have residence in Serbia are currently in Vienna, that there are 250,000 of them in Chicago, etc. These are some estimates, but you can't see it in the proposal, which suggests that even the suggests don't know what number it is, what number of people would be covered by that. As a result, it does not know exactly the number of polling stations needed to be opened in diplomatic and consular offices and elsewhere proposed by the foreign ministry. What does that mean? This basically means that we have one election in the country, which is conducted by the Republic Election Commission under the rules and by the current law on the election of republican MPs, and we have other elections, which are held abroad according to recommendations, proposals and opinions of the foreign ministry, which means that the foreign ministry is conducting elections abroad. That's practically what it means. I would very much like to see the Republic Election Commission which will reject the foreign ministry's proposal for a proposal on a election board president or a polling post that will be outside the consular-diplomatic representation. I'd love to see that decision by the Republic Election Commission, so she'll find a new polling spot in Chicago to vote on. In addition, no one mentioned in this proposal an extended assembly of election committees. It was left to the parties to manage themselves, which suggests that the parties should organise their own party infrastructure abroad. That would be where the funding problem would be multiplied. You know he entered the Law on the financing of political organisations as of January 1st and that it is impossible to finance more political organisations from abroad. An organisational problem would arise between party bodies abroad and authorities in the country and the problem of whether the state should bear the costs of members of the electoral committees in an extended composition to control foreign elections. If we want to stick to the principle of multilateral election control, we must simply enable, in one way or another, multilateral control. So, whether representatives of parties from the country and abroad are leaving, whether we are developing a party infrastructure abroad and that our members from abroad living there are controlling the elections, controlling election operations in polling stations. Secondly, there are practical problems. You know, whoever took part in the election processes, whoever of you MPs or the president of the municipal committees worked in their parties, knows what the problems are about obtaining housing, persuasion, beliefs about citizenship, how our controller from Melbourne will gain confidence in the citizenship of Novi Sad, that he has a place in Novi Sad. Many technical questions arise that this proposal does not provide answers. As for campaigning and campaigning, the country is allowed to campaign and be conducted, there is simply no answer to the question of who will and how to implement the campaign abroad, how the parties will be able to activate for their citizens who have a residence abroad and to animate that citizenship to vote for them. Citizens who want to vote in diplomatic-consular representations or in polling stations designated by the foreign ministry, verifies the RIK, are directed to apply. So they have to sign up for our diplomatic-consular representations so they can vote. It has been said that these lists that are being made are not special lists, that they are entering a total fighting body. In particular, our citizens who would vote in London would have to sign up for our diplomatic-consular presentation in London. Our ambassador to London, if I'm not mistaken, is Vladeta Jankovic, former DSS vice president, so I don't see why Vladeta Jankovic would send Serbian citizens to vote for any other party except the DSS. Or, the ambassador to Washington is Ivan Vujacic, who is a member of the DS, he will certainly direct our US-based citizens to vote for the Democratic Party. So they already have an infrastrukuru that's going to propaganda abroad. Other parties do not even allow elemental control of the electoral process. As for the reduction of census and so on. positive discrimination, there must be some clarifications; positive and discrimination are foreign words, not ours, for easier understanding, discrimination means difference, should be read to Vujaklia, and positive means real, true, positive fact. Positive discrimination means real difference, real difference. These terms really make a difference. They propose that the parties of national minorities do not have a censorship, they just need to realize that the parties are national minorities, they are automatically not subject to the censorship, and for all other parties, a 5% census is foreseen. What's going on in that situation? It happens that a party recognised as having the right to become a lateral minority can, with 15 to 16 thousand votes, win one MP, one parliamentary seat, and realistically, there is a real danger, and you will see it in the next elections, that the G17 party plus wins 150 thousand votes and does not enter the Assembly, does not win any MPs. Look, they've won 10 times as many votes, and isn't that discrimination? It is a huge discrimination that one party's vote, that the vote of a party member who votes for a political minority party is worth 10 times more than the vote of a citizen who voted for the G17 plus party, and that would really be a huge injustice against one such big and expert party as G17 plus. Furthermore, Article 12 has too wide a definition of what the political parties of national minorities are. In point 2, it says those parties whose primary objective is to represent and represent the interests of national minorities and to protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, are in line with international standards. It's hard to interpret and know exactly what it means. It's such a general formulation that the floor can be fooled by whatever it is you want. In doing so, RIK is given to decide whether it falls under that category or not. In addition to this interesting proposal that has been proposed, there was also one DS amendment – Boris Tadic, which is even more interesting. And this is that the way and procedure of establishing a special voter list of national minorities determines RIK, so a member of the national minority has the right to vote in favour of the general and minority list. So he has the right to vote twice. A member of the national minority can only vote for a list of national minorities whose polling place. So he can and doesn't have to. If he wants to, he will, if he won't, he won't. Fortunately, the amendment has been rejected and this will be made more detailed in the debate on details. Finally, in principle, these amendments and additions to this law are not good in any case, because they release one major deficit, which is for those who are in practice holding elections, that there is no link between RIK and election committees. So there must be one inter-body, and that's the municipal electoral commission, which would facilitate the election process itself. There's some incompatibility with the local election law. So, if we want to balance our views, we need to accept the SRS amendment to lower the censorship to 3% for all citizens and for all political parties and not to share political parties on a national basis, but to divide them by programmes, so if it's at the local level of the censorship 3%, it's also at the republican level. Especially since this law, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, is a subsidiary law for the application of the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic and the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u566	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u567	Dear fellow Members of the People, to a part of the remarks made here, I already answered yesterday, or I explained them, I will not look back. I'm going to explain just the things that are new to yesterday's debate and I'm going to try to make one or two sentences about each and every one of them, for the sake of the efficiency of this body's work. Dear fellow SRS MP, Mr. Milajic, did not read some of the provisions of the law well. First, the foreign ministry does not recommend to RIK polling stations. It gives an opinion. Opinion is not a legal act, it does not oblige anyone else, distinguished counterpart Milajić, the other polling stations are no exception. They are a rule, as are polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations. Thirdly, it also provides only the opinion of the Foreign Ministry; it neither determines, nor recommends, nor directs the RIK and the like. Fourthly, election committees abroad are the same as the country's electoral committees, which means there is no difference in rights and obligations. Members of the electoral committees, nor the extended composition, are by no means different from the extended compositions of the country's electoral committees. They are equal in rights and obligations, it is equal to the right of proponents to control elections both in the country and abroad. Fifthly, you asked how someone who wants to be a member of the election committee abroad would come to the country to draw confidence in citizenship or to draw confidence in voting law. There's someone else who can do the same for him. Sixth, I don't want to talk about who the ambassador is and what it has to do with the election abroad. I think it's completely pointless and I don't need to talk about it. As for the campaign abroad, I don't know why it matters. People can commit without campaigning and campaigning. Whether the campaign abroad is important and important at all, it depends on the party. If your criterion is that the diaspora cannot vote because no party has the money to organise elections abroad, I think it should be one, I choose words, an unfounded and meaningless criterion. Furthermore, voter records abroad are one thing, and voting lists are another. The foreign ministry is only a service between our voters abroad and the ministry that is competent to run the RIK voter lists. Nothing works, it's a service, it passes documents to the country or from the country to the voters there. For example, voters' records are presented in diplomatic and consular representations, our voters outside intervene for alterations, enrolment, erasing through diplomatic and consular representations, but this does not do what, the ministry still does, for example, justice, which is responsible for these jobs here or municipalities that do this as a trusted job. So they don't do anything about eradicating, enrolment, alterations, etc. The foreign ministry, or diplomatic and consular representatives of our country abroad. It's mostly the things I wanted to expose to you. I answered most of the other things you brought out here yesterday, and I don't think there's any need to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u568	The People's Messenger Ksenija Milivojevic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u569	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in line with what we announced yesterday, the G17 plus will support the amendment law and the amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, although we believe that this bill is, in fact, a transitional solution, that is, a solution that is necessary at this point, until the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia. We believe that a more comprehensive and comprehensive law should be passed following the adoption of the new constitution of Serbia, and that there should also be some legislation that will allow this matter to be properly regulated. I'm going to stay in the exhibit, first of all, on what we think is good in this law and which is the basic reason why we're going to support the law. It is, in fact, that this bill includes four large groups of citizens in Serbia's political life itself, by allowing them, above all, the right to vote, and on the other hand, to participate in parliament, or the institutions of government. First of all, when we talk about these four large groups, I think of members of the national minorities, or of an extremely large group that, due to the application of the current law, has been practically impossible to enter parliament in the December 28th elections. In this way, i.e. by introducing a system called the so-called system. The natural threshold, i.e. by removing censorships for national minority parties, allows minorities, which represent a very important segment of society in Serbia, to also be represented in parliament. In doing so, I would not agree with the remarks, which are mostly addressed here yesterday, that this, in practice, makes it impossible for minorities to vote for the parties of the majority people, or for those parties that do not exclusively represent their interests. It's exactly the opposite. In this way, i.e. this solution, which is provided for in the Bill's proposal, there is an opportunity to elect the very members of the national minorities themselves, i.e. they are in a position to choose whether to vote for the majority parties or for the parties of national minorities representing their interests. I think it's a very good opportunity for them. Thus, they do not in any way force themselves to vote for the parties of national minorities, nor do they deny the majority of the membership parties, i.e. the support of these groups, but rather the opposite. On the other hand, it is necessary to allow this right to be elected in such a way that members of national minorities can have in parliament those persons, i.e. those parties representing their interests and which they consider to represent in the best way. Another group that has been damaged by the solution so far are those persons who, for any reason, are unable to come to a polling post, i.e. disabled or powerless persons. We believe that this was a major failure of the law that is currently in force and that it is a very good solution provided for in Article 10. The bill, which allows these people to vote at home, in places where they are and that these persons are not now excluded from political life. The third group is what makes so-called. a less represented sex. In the case of Serbia, they are women. I am very glad that amendments to the bill created this possibility, in that the rule of 30 % of the less-represented gender is introduced. The G17 plus will vote in favour of the amendment, i.e. support the amendment when voting for the law in particular. Finally, perhaps the most disputed issue, or solution to the bill, is the issue of the diaspora vote, i.e. our people with residence or residence abroad. Although we believe that this issue may not be in a comprehensive way resolved in the current proposal, we will support it, as well as the law in general, anyway. We believe that before the adoption of a new law on the selection of MPs, after the adoption of the constitution, as I have said, it would be necessary to pass a diaspora law, which will now be resolved in a certain way by questionable issues, which, above all, relate to the records of our people abroad, that is, the way of that record, as well as the possibilities for achieving those rights that our people abroad should have. The Law on the Selection of MPs would then determine how these rights should be implemented, so that this realisation is properly resolved and that there is no legal gap there can be. Otherwise, as regards the G17 Plus list itself, I must point out that the list and the G17 Plus MP group met all these criteria that the bill itself, and amendments, relate to, in the sense that the G17 MP group plus the only one in the Serbian Parliament has 32% less than the gender represented, or 32% of women, which I will recall is also the recommendations of the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Union. So, one solution that really needs to be accepted. It is also in our parliamentary group that 15% of the minority communities, which we have just wanted the picture, which is the picture and the electoral body and the G17 plus, to be transferred to parliament and to represent in an adequate way those voters who voted for us in the parliamentary elections. So, to repeat once again in the end, we will support the bill's proposal and we believe that the new bill should possibly work after the new constitution is passed, but we believe that this is a good solution, that it is much better than the previous one and that in a much more comprehensive and comprehensive way, it regulates the matter which, unfortunately, in our legislation so far has been quite disorganised and led to the fact that the large group, the four large groups, are not represented at this moment in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u570	The word has the People's MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, followed by Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u571	Dear People's MPs, it is our turn to first say what we say in favour of the defence of this current Law on the selection of MPs, which, as we know, was brought about in mid-October 2000. So it is not one of the laws, as most parliamentary groups like to say -- from Milosevic's era. This is a law agreed between the SRS, the SPS, the JUL, the SPO and the DOS, which was not yet formally in the republican government at the time, but has somehow already seized power, or usurped power in Serbia. Therefore, every reference to this law as some relic of the old regime has no basis. This law, no matter what they think of it, has brought on Serbia's political scene a calming of political passions regarding election processes. Five election cycles were held under this law and no political party has ever questioned the election results, which was a regular occurrence during the old election laws. In short, I will remind you, for those who do not have so much memory, or have not been actively involved in political life, as these laws seemed. In the first multiparty elections, the so-called so-called party elections were held. the majority election principle. The SPS then won 195 MPs, and the number of votes won in the elections was no more than 55 per cent to 60 per cent, although I cannot remember correctly. At that time, the entire opposition, rightly, criticised the electoral law and all the opposition parties at the time, struggled by institutional, non-institutional means, by various pressures, that the law had changed and the SPS had partly caved under these pressures, so the next law was, as we say, semi-proportional. Why semi-proportional? Because Serbia was divided into 29 electoral units. I think you remember that. Under the election law, the next elections were held, when the SPS also won power, but now with a close majority. At that time, there was a discrepancy between the percentage of votes the parties won and the percentage of parliamentary mandates they received. During the next election cycle, the opposition fought to improve the electoral law, so the number of constituency units went down from 29 to nine. This was a significant improvement, and at that time, the gap between the number of votes and the number of mandates was already much smaller, but thanks to Serbia being divided into several election units of the national minority party was represented in parliament. Why? Because in Vojvodina there were, for example, two electoral units, the Raška area was one constituency and that is why minority members were represented in parliament, even though the censorship was 5%. As far as the current law is concerned, we must not dispute his justice because there is a direct link between the will of the people and the number of mandates. The only irregularities that have caused dissatisfaction are the pre-election procedure, i.e. the way and the possibility of presenting parties in central state media. This and last year, the situation with the media is much better and now indeed no party has any serious objection to the election process itself. As far as these draft laws or amendments to the laws proposed by the DSS are concerned, we also feel that this current law should be changed a little bit. When we passed this current law, we did a little wrong about the powerless faces, who couldn't make it to the polls. It was consciously done, and I'll tell you why. We who have so many times conducted an election procedure next to the ballot boxes have noticed one thing - that the percentage of the votes that the parties received in boxes and those who were enveloped differed drastically. Since the ruling party then had the opportunity to organise the electoral procedure on its own, some of the stalking mechanisms were to convert the votes most frequently falsified. That is why the SRS allowed the first next elections, which were December's 2000 elections, to be temporarily wrong about the immobilised and impotent persons, until the stalking mechanism of counterfeiting the enveloped votes is broken down. It wasn't our intention to keep it so unsolved. It's the DOS government's fault -- why that provision hasn't changed much before. It's not our fault, really. As for the proposed changes, we don't mind in principle that our citizens vote abroad. Only on the condition that all parties, and when I say that, I mean these big, parliamentary ones, which usually cover polling stations in the country -- and the vast majority of these small parties when they're not already covering the polling stations in the country, I don't think we should even try to allow them to cover the polling stations abroad -- that they can cover those polling stations. Nothing more and nothing less. Let's leave those political qualifications now. The fact is that our diplomacy is not professional, that diplomats are mostly party-delegated people. Why would we trust the ambassador to London, if the DSS already has trust, we don't trust in principle, but we don't mind what he's ambassador. However, we are against him having any involvement in the election process itself, either formally or essentially. Otherwise, the SRS has a political interest in organising a vote abroad. Indeed, there is a political interest because our domestic outcome would be improved if it were to be voted abroad. I'm not saying this for political marketing. Here, I'll appeal to the opinion of one of the analysts, the sociologists, from the so-called group. pro-government experts; after the presidential elections last year, when our candidate Tomislav Nikolic won, on one of the TVs there was a round table, there were analysts shouting that there was such a failure that the Serbian Radical could win the elections and why DOS power was so careless to schedule parliamentary elections right after that, because it would be wind in the back of radicals. One of those participants, it's Mrs. Bacevic, if I remember correctly, she said - I can't understand DOS's power that she scheduled the election for December 28th when a lot of gas-bitters came to the country and would vote. To the leader's question – what does it matter, he said – they will vote mostly for the SRS; which is why – because they feel on their skin the nature of the economic and social system for which the current, or democratic option stands. That's why they're voting for the SRS. As far as the censorship is concerned, the SRS has shown tolerance, not only to national minorities, but also to small parties within, conditionally speaking, the Serb people. All those parties who have slandered the SRS with the worst words, calling it ultranationalist, fascist, thanks to this proposal, are given a chance, it is not such a great chance for them to enter parliament. As for national minorities, the number of voters of a certain nationality, I think we all mean the Hungarian and Muslim national minorities, their number allows them to enter parliament with a three-percent censorship. But under one condition, this condition is that these national minorities feel unequal in Serbia. Why? Because they will vote for a party that protects national equality, or their interests, only if they are at risk. Why should a Hungarian apriori vote for the Hungarian party, which advocates the equality of the Hungarians, when Hungary feels it is already equal. Now other motives are important to him – the economic situation in the country, the social policy of individual parties and, therefore, in the future, national minorities will be increasingly defined for other large parties that are not national but that differ in social, economic, cultural and other aspects. That's why this is a dead end job, constantly lowering the censorship, constantly helping national minorities to enter parliament, and that is the constant satisfaction of the self-proclaimed national protectors' leaders to always be in this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u572	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u573	Just one brief intervention. I said three times, I guess I have to do it again. Diplomatic and consular representations and specifically ambassadors have no role to play in the electoral process, vote counting, resulting, etc. They are only a service between RIK and voters abroad. To claim that the ambassador has something to do with the elections and that it can affect the results of the vote, it would be as if we were to claim that, because the polling post 26 is located in the municipality of Rakovica in some autoservice, the owner of the autoservice plays any role in the election process. There isn't. He only rented for money to the Republic of Serbia the space where the polling station is located and nothing else. In the same way, the ambassadors will have nothing to do with the electoral procedure. I repeat, I hope you finally get that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u574	The word is made by MP Bajram Omeragic, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u575	I must first say that the Sandzak Social Liberal Party welcomes this bill and, as far as our voters are concerned, I can say that we have kept our promise, of course, this time with the support of the promoter, which we really appreciate. In the pre-election campaign, we promised that one of the first laws that we'd advocate would demand that it be amended, it's the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. We are pleased to do so today and especially because our diaspora has so far been deprived of that right to vote. It will now be made possible, especially because minorities will be given the opportunity to enter parliament in a easier way. As for many discussions on this subject, I would first comment on the view of previous debaters that one reason is that this law is adopted by an urgent procedure that minorities are not represented in this House. I don't think that stands. This is due to those five or six shows about the sad situation; how, reportedly, two officials, one republican and one federal government, and their parties did not enter this parliament. If you look at the election results from our region, you can see that the DS list and the parties that were there, and my party was on that list, received absolute support. It's just these results and they're talking about something else, and it's about a demagogy that's been heard these two days here, about the concept of ghettoization. It is not about ghettoisation that the two Sandzak parties on the Democratic Party list are just testifying. The idea of freedom is not the right thing to do with freedom. It's not the choice. It's the concept of freedom. It's the concept of choice. That minorities will be given the opportunity to choose whether to vote for a majority nation party or for a party designated by the RIK as a national minority party, it is a minimum of freedom that should exist in this country. It's about law, not obligation. If it were a commitment, it would mean that minorities have to be put in the ghetto and have to vote for someone by law. They only get the opportunity to choose this bill and we have a good situation that the majority parties will now race to do so with their programmes to invite minority representatives to vote for them. My party is called the Social Liberal Party and I advocate a minority list, which does not mean at all that my party will go to the next elections on the minority list or be declared a national minority party. What I want to say in that sense is this: the existence and declaration of a party for, conditionally speaking, a national minority representative, which will be determined, although it did not react correctly to the Legislative Committee without respecting what we wanted, that this kind of arbitration is removed by a legal void that is obvious here, when it is said that RIK, we do not know on the basis of what criteria, to conclude that it is a party representing a national minority or not. It literally does not say, we added that it should stand – and based on insight into the program and the party's statutes. If it doesn't, we don't know on what criteria it's going to be done. That it's very bad, it shows another fact. You've seen that in our public, that's what the predecessors here have said, a false dilemma about how minorities are not represented in this Parliament, or are not adequately represented. In the previous elections, there was a coalition called the "Coalition for Tolerance", and all media in this country declared it an apriori for so-called "The Coalition for Tolerance". a minority list or called on chronically every day to vote, allegedly, because there are minority representatives on the list. To remind you, the bearer of this list, the first on the list was Branislav Cole Kovacevic from Kragujevac. He's a friend of mine, I appreciate him very much, but I didn't hear he changed his nationality. We watched those seven shows on Pink, on RTS, and there in some way people complained about not coming in. Let me remind you, in previous elections, a few civil servants, when their parties entered parliament, said minorities were represented in parliament. Let me remind you, according to the last census, this is a copy of the official institution, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and it says there are 23 or 24 minority communities in this country. So, two officials in parliament are not right that there are no minorities, that's not true. This issue of positive discrimination is partial in this case. Why partial? It would be complete if you made it possible, as in some neighbouring countries, not to talk about it today, I have a few examples of electoral laws in which, I say, members of the majority people, as it is known to say, in a dispersion, outside this country, have guaranteed seats in the parliament, whether to go to the election of a thousand of them or to go to 120 thousand. Is it guaranteed to enter minorities in parliament? It's guaranteed in part. And why is that? If a certain minority has 15 parties and voters vote for all 15 parties, one will give 3,000 votes, the other 2,000, five 6,000 and none will win that average set of votes required in the last elections, 14 or 15 thousand. Therefore, there is no automatic way to choose who was on the national minority list, and therefore it is a false dilemma, to guarantee apriors to minorities that they will be represented. So it's not true. It would be exactly like in a neighbouring country where there are three guaranteed seats for members of national minorities, and I will not name countries, in order not to spread that debate, we have many such examples, and here it says, you have a minority list, you go out there to count, there are 15 parties, and the first party has won on that list 3,500 votes, it will get MPs, because they have an embedded quota for a number of national minorities, and that is not the case here. We welcome this law, because it satisfies in principle the relief of minorities from entering parliament; it facilitates, does not guarantee. So the ones who claimed to be someone super right here, they're actually wrong. Whether minorities should be discriminated against, that's a European principle, that's not the principle that we're going to invent here, that's what we need to keep track of what the Council of Europe is looking for, what the OSCE is looking for and what the international institutions are looking for. And let's see that we've only taken one first step to find as many members of the national minorities as possible in parliament. What I'm saying is, every country should be happy when members of the minority community race to enter that parliament. By entering the palace, they show a degree of loyalty to that state. The degree of loyalty of that state is the very fact of entering parliament, and normally it would be to qualify for something else that is very important, which is to enter other state institutions. The Constitutional Charter adopted the view that members of national minorities have the right to participate and have certain participation in state institutions. According to this list, millions of Serbian citizens do not belong to the majority people. If they analyze how many minority members there are in the government of Serbia, as many in diplomacy as there are in all other state institutions, you would see that there is no reason for any kind of doubt and concern that minorities will find in parliament. I say once again, the state should be happy when minorities are racing and when they can be represented as easily and as quality as possible in parliament. Countries that have minorities outside parliament, for whatever reason, should be concerned, one I would mention and that is the worst case, which is when minorities for different reasons do not want to enter any state institutions. Therefore, I believe that this is an initial step and an expression of the political will of one significant party, and I see that most parties in this House have a desire to adopt this law as it is; it is not enough, because it has a lot of gaps, there is uncertainty, but I hope that when the constitutional commission is formed, when other institutions are formed in an uninstitutionalised society, we will have the opportunity to specify it by other acts and in the most appropriate way regulate minority representation. Yesterday, Vice-President of the Assembly Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I took a stenogram, said this: "This is obviously only about the advocacy of maybe Muslim, I will not use the word of the Bosniak, or Hungarian national minority, as a number of national minorities that can influence the outcome of the parliamentary elections. “ In Article 49. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to guarantee the citizen freedom of expression of nationality. But you resent using the word "Bosnjak". First of all, let me tell you, here is the official report of the Republic institution dealing with the publication of the results of the latest lists, and I think it is very bad for the vice-president of the highest political and legislative body in this country to act this way and this is how it is determined by the members of the national minorities participating in this Parliament, whose representatives want to participate in all the institutions of this state and society. I think it was a fruit of fatigue, because the speech was beyond 17 hours, not some sincere desire, that is, to be expressed about members of the Bosniak national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u576	Replica, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u577	My dear colleague, since you called me by my name, on behalf of me, and I know that's what my fellow MPs from the SRS think. We have a very positive attitude towards all citizens of Serbia, regardless of what nationality they are, no matter what religion they are, and we especially respect our Muslim brothers, or Serbs of Muslim religion, but I really don't know what it means -- Bosniak. And you can call yourself whatever you want, historical facts say that you are Serbs of Muslim religion, and as such, as your brother, I observe and, believe me, there is no reason to be offended at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u578	It was a replica. There's no replica on the replica. You have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure if you feel offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u579	Just to tell you, Mrs Pop-Lazic is not authorized to determine historical facts and she is not a representative of the Bosniak Institute of Sarajevo, to determine whether she is a member of a particular minority. The basic right of a national minority or a citizen, I quoted that view, is to say which national minority it belongs to. What I'm saying is that no one has a right, there is no institution that can impose a citizen under the law to plead one way or another. I showed a copy of the Statistical Bureau of the Republic of Serbia, where there are 13,000 people who have so declared themselves. Why are they so clear, put the agenda in place one day here, and we'll ask the experts to explain it to us. I think it's unnecessary for you to do that. I know you're preparing for a pre-election campaign, but there's no need to score those points on Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u580	The Messenger of the people is Zlatan Jovanovic, and after him is the messenger of the people, Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u581	Mr. Omeragic, the historical facts are not determined. They're facts, which means they're already confirmed as truth, and it's your right to feel a member of any nation. For us, you are a Serb Muslim religion, and you will remain that way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is hard to be original and say something new after these brilliant speeches by Serbian Radical Party MPs. I will try in the shortest time to repeat what has already been said about this bill, not with the illusion of persuasion to convince one of the MPs present so-called. Parliament's majority to change their minds, but with the intention of getting our public even closer to getting acquainted with what this bill offers. In this bill, there are several segments that are important and that I will point to in this presentation. The first segment refers to voter lists. In Article 4. The bill says who can request the entry, erasure or other change of data in the voter lists, and among other things, it is said that erasure, correction or addition of the voter list can be done by any citizen for himself or for another. A third-person citizen can't ask for changes in the voter's list. This entails one difficult consequence, one possibility for a citizen to come to the home service and seek to delete from the voter's list of voters he knows reliably that they are not voters of his political option. Is it legal and is this law allowed to allow? Also, it is said in the same Article 4 that since submitting the electoral list the right to insight and to submit requests for amendments to the voter's list has the electoral list. Mr Ristivojevic, who is the applicant of the electoral list and will the applicant be able to come to my Baja Basta, Pirot or some other place in Serbia and demand changes in the voter's list? No, it's technically impossible, and that's why we've proposed an amendment detailing this and which should be adopted, where it says it's done by an authorised representative of the voters' list. I think that's technically the only thing that's right. The other thing that matters in this bill is the vote of powerless persons, those who are prevented from coming to the polls on the day of the vote. This bill allows those persons to vote by going to the voters' house part of the election committee and thus allowing the voter to vote. What's controversial here is the formulation the motionor predicted, that two members of the election committee, appointed by the chairman of the election board, go to the voters. That allows manipulation. The president of the election board is most often a party figure, meaning a person who is a member of some political option that is interested in the outcome of the election, and the president can designate two people from the electoral board who are members of the same political option or coalition, representatives of the same list, who can then do the job irregularly. For these reasons, we have submitted an amendment that provides that these are three members of the electoral committee from different political options, different parties, in order to be regular. The third segment, to which this law applies, is the vote of our citizens who are temporarily staying, living and working abroad. I must say immediately that this law is very tending to say that the previous law did not allow our citizens abroad to vote in Serbia, which is not true. The previous law allowed, and we just heard that a large number of our citizens, who reside temporarily abroad, had just voted in the last elections. Why? Because it was New Year's Eve, people came to Serbia and voted. So, the previous law allowed, but in the previous law there was no possibility of voting abroad but only in Serbia. The proposal now offers an opportunity to vote outside Serbia, to vote abroad. I may use a harder word, but I think this is pure utopia. I agree and accept it as an idea, but I find it technically simply impossible to carry out correctly, properly, that all our citizens are covered, that everyone has an equal chance of voting abroad. It's easy to write this, put it on paper, offer to the Assembly, and it might be easy to provide a majority that will vote this out, but implement this technical being very difficult. That's why we're talking about all this for two days right now. It is difficult to ensure in a valid, correct, regular way that all citizens abroad have an equal chance of pleading in these elections. He spoke to a proposaling representative several times, and I have to do it again. Although there is a member of the law that is of general character, that election committees have an extended composition, it is not burning to say again here, in this place, that abroad there is also an extended composition of the electoral committee, where all the lists that are interested in the results of the election, so that there are no ambiguities and attempts to abuse this. The next thing you know about this, which, in my opinion, is incomplete, vague, and I just want to point out and ask if there's enough attention being paid, which is the link between this member of the proposal and the member of the 77th basic law. According to Article 77 of the basic law, after determining the result of the vote, the electoral committee will, without delay and no later than 18 hours from the time of the vote, submit the record of work and other documentation to the Republic Election Commission. Gentlemen, this time of 18 hours the law obliges is also short for our domestic occasions. So it's a time that's hard to respect in Serbia as well. Will it be possible for the record to arrive in 18 hours from Chicago or from another city abroad, did you consider that when you wrote this bill, is this consistent with the article of the 77th Basic Law? The last thing, the last segment of this proposal, is what we've already heard, which may be the essence of this proposal. It is an opportunity given to national minorities to engage through their political parties in a way that is not right for us. Namely, it's only this article 12. The bill is being discriminated against in the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia is under the Constitution, which is still valid, a civil state in which all citizens are equal, all have the same rights, the same obligations. Why do we now segregate them with such a proposal, why some citizens are favored or seemingly favored? The question is whether it's a favorite or just an illusion; or whether it's the result of some of your pre-election trade, perhaps post-election trade, of some of your promises to keep national minorities as much as possible in this House. Never before in the last 14 years, or as much as there is a multi-party in Serbia, this parliament has not been without members of the national minorities. They were always there. Whether they were present on their own lists or on some other lists, it may be irrelevant, but they were always present. Why we're getting ghettos now, I have to say it, because that's basically why we're forcing members of national minorities to recruit only into national minorities parties. Gentlemen, we in the SRS, which is known as the national party, have members and other minorities. We have members and Muslim religions, we have members and Hungarian minorities, we have members and other minorities who are less represented in Serbia. Why do we now force them to recruit and flee from our parties, to go only to the parties of the national minorities? This member produced a direct consequence, Mr. Omeragic's amendment, which states in paragraph 3 that a member of the national minority can only vote for a list of national minorities on whose voter list. Now we will also make a list of members of national minorities, we will have separate lists of members of national minorities and the obligation of voters to vote only for the national minority list. I'm talking about the amendment that follows the bill. And another, perhaps technical or formal, objection to Article 12. In Article 12. The proposal stands like this – in Article 81. (basic law) two new positions are added and three are indicated. In the first one, I think, it says two bet, and it's given three. Absolutely, the third attitude is out of the question. Correct this, withdraw this law, that's what's best for Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u582	Replica, Mr. Omeragic, then a representative of the promoter, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u583	I won't talk any longer, but I'll read it one more time, because some don't want to hear it, Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia; it says – the citizen is guaranteed freedom of expression of nationality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u584	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u585	Dear fellow MPs, a few things have been said here that do not stand, a couple that stand. I will immediately say that it is not true that the possibility of a particular party asking RIK to be declared a party of national minorities and to be subject to censorship; it is not an obligation, it is the right. I repeat, he can, he doesn't have to. I've said it many times, and I'm just finishing up on it for a little while. Two, it's not true that we've ever claimed that people abroad are legally impossible to vote, they're practically impossible to vote. In our explanation of the law, they are also called factic abstinents. So it's not worth setting us up, even though it's here now of little importance. Under three, no one with a legal interest can make a change in the voter's list; changes, registration, changes, etc. can only ask. So he's not doing it, he's looking. It also says in this law, and it also said in that, but I had to intervene with a colleague of yours who didn't understand the difference, search and perform. Repeatedly purely school, the change in the voter's list is a job done by the Ministry of Justice and entrusted to municipal administrations. The two things that you're really right about, the committees have accepted them. It wasn't just yours, it was the SPS amendment, that in the event of a vote of powerless persons, it wasn't the chairman of the board of two board members who would go to the polls, but to vote. The board elects three members from different lists, who will go to the powerless person to hold the vote. I think that amendment is acceptable, it's quite all right and I can state on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group that the amendment is acceptable, that we will also vote for it, regardless of what you and the SPS have submitted separately. It's all right, you're right, there's an opportunity for the board president to appoint two people on the same list and that it cannot be fully controlled that the powerless person will vote. Also, although I will repeat this once again, the basic text of the law makes it clear that election committees are made up of a permanent and expanded composition, that representatives of the electoral lists have the right to an extended composition, that this also applies to committees abroad and in the country. If you insist on introducing a special provision, which will also apply to the composition of election committees abroad, although it is legally and technically unnecessary, if you insist, if this is your condition to support this law, okay, no problem, we will also support this amendment, although it is not technically necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u586	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Bakarec, followed by the MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u587	It is necessary, since only one of the previous speakers has dealt with the issue of a little genealogy, but briefly, i.e. When this law comes into existence, I'll join him. So this law was passed at the time, and you can see when it was voted – October 10th. It was a hard time back then, and the exit was watching and it was found, but we all know what it was like back then. We were not in this congregation as DSS, we know who passed this law and what congregation. The gentleman said, but we need to know who suggested this law. I think the gentleman also said that, suggested by the SRS. I hope you don't mind, that's your bill. I mean, it was a little careless by that gentleman. He mentioned that the legislator was temporarily wrong about a specific category of citizens and then explained it. What it means is that someone temporarily wronged the category that counts more, when everything combined with the diaspora, of millions of citizens. What else did the promoter do wrong, except for this citizen? He was wrong about the Constitution and the laws. Because what is the consequence of this law is that three and a half years of certain categories of citizens, numbering at least one million people, have been denied in their basic, constitutional and legal right to have the right to choose, and these are the categories of citizens and this is the law that corrects them. That's what we need to know. It is only necessary to say who has proposed this law and that law was envisaged, among other things, a 5% census. Now the SRS is proposing that the census be reduced to 3%, and then suggested 5%. Serbia's political scene needs to be cleared. I think the SRS stands for it, and then it's good to keep that censorship. It's about the genealogy. As for the things offered by this law, what is the essence; first of all, Article 10 of these amendments allows for the vote of the powerless, the disabled, the old, all those who could not make it to the polls. I don't see what that was until 2000. We have accepted that three members of the electoral committee are now going to visit, to visit all these powerful categories of people who cannot come to the polls, to enable them to vote under these circumstances, to convert it and to take these votes into account. I don't see why anyone would be against it. Article 10 of these amendments solves it. It is a broad population, disabled, powerless and old, because Serbia, unfortunately, is increasingly old, who need to make it possible and the DSS enables them. We see that these amendments and additions to the law are not controversial to anyone. That's very good. There are some details, but there's no ideal law, it would have to change the whole law, and there's no time for that. So we allow these categories of people to achieve their basic constitution and law guaranteed the right, plus prisoners, those who have prison sanctions, and especially the diaspora category. It's not all diaspora, it's those who are citizens of our country, and this law will allow them to exercise their rights. Why not? I don't see what anyone would mind. All parties, I haven't heard one more who said – we don't want diaspora money. Everyone wants diaspora money, and they don't want to be offered some basic rights, like this, so they don't have to vote exclusively in the country. It is also very important that special voter records will be drawn up abroad and that the number of voters will not be included in the total number of voters. A lot of problems are being solved. What caused the most interest, which I will speak of the least, because it is not at all controversial, is the vote of national minorities. I'd just point to some political stuff. Interestingly, those who still have the Serbian government, which still rule the country, have not proposed amendments to this law in three years. It was not true that the law was not disputed, it was challenged by the DSS three times, in all presidential elections. And in 2002 and 2003, when we didn't participate, we challenged this law and we said it was bad. That is why we proposed amendments to this law in October 2002 and therefore we have the highest right to talk. We criticized him and he was and how challenged he was. As far as minorities are concerned, the question is why the Democratic Party, DOS, etc., why in three years they haven't gotten the strength, the knowledge, the desire to change this law, and it's been bad. Why should the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kasa, who must have been in charge of something in that government, and certainly should have been in charge of this part of the amendments to this law, why didn't he propose, and he was also an MP here, amending this law? Why did the parties allegedly advocate civil and human rights, largely and extensively, do nothing to improve civil and human rights in this way, but rather do the DSS? Because we truly advocate civil and human rights. Also, these changes allow something better to be done about the voter lists, to better record, delete, correct, add to the voter lists. It is predicted that citizens can do so personally, other citizens and applicants of the electoral lists. That's great. As far as national minorities are concerned, when elections are called and the elections are over, everyone has jumped, at least in the media -- behold, the rights of national minorities are at stake, it is not according to world standards. Okay, we fix it. But when we proposed these amendments to the law, suddenly some of them jumped and started talking about ghettoization. To remind those who talk about it - ten days ago I heard his statement, and it would have been better if I had never heard it and had never seen him, that was the first said Mr. Canak, who protested against these amendments and the addition of the law, because this is a real ghettoisation; he's not making any ghettoisation, and Mr. Canak should be the last one to talk about it. The DSS, you can see that here, is accessing this problem that's not disputed by most, so we're solving the problem, and some other parties here are constantly coming out and trying to set up obstacles to solving the problem. We solve problems, and that's how we set things up. These amendments and additions to the law are not ideal, because they cannot change and supplement to be ideal, but this is the best thing possible right now. Census, I said, don't hang up to 3%. That's unnecessary. Simply, this would end, since spring is coming soon, we are all aware of it, although it is a dark day, we need together, and we are making a full contribution to it, to make Serbia smile back on its face.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u588	Replica, Mr. Pajtic, and then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u589	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, cannot honour the Democratic Party's will against this law. We brought forth what are our principled objections, but we said that we would uphold the law. We can't even be honored not to recognize the interests of national minorities. On the contrary, representatives of one of the national minorities living in this country have entered the DS list. Unfortunately, the representatives of other national minorities' parties did not enter and should not enter the lists of parties that are conditionally majority political parties, but should be allowed to enter the republican parliament without censorship. Secondly, DS was not the only party within the coalition. So it's not correct to single her out, since she suggested passing one of these laws. There was not enough political will within that coalition. Neither did the DSS, which was part of the coalition, propose amendments to that law. The passing of this law is not a matter of any merit. The passing of this law and the corrections of this law should be our common interest and our common political commitment. It's not true that we have a problem with the diaspora voting. We say he should vote, it should be possible to vote, but this law unsettledly gives that right. The question of the sovereignty of the host countries, i.e. the countries in which our citizens reside and who should vote in those countries, is raised. Bilateral agreements must be concluded, other mechanisms must be found. There are no technical options for the equal organisation of elections in all these countries, there is a great possibility of manipulation and therefore we are extremely concerned. As for the diaspora vote, the vote of national minorities and the right of the less represented half to be represented in parliament in a relationship that is characteristic of all European parliaments, so 30%, we are absolutely up for it and we will support such proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u590	Replica, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the predecessor tried to interpret the SRS' position on the electoral censorship. I think we can best interpret it, a team before we have a very clear attitude, which hasn't been changed by our amendment. In fact, it's true that we're standing up for a 5% census. We said it could be bigger. We would accept it as an electoral condition, because we know how much trust we Serbian citizens have and would not be a problem for us to be a parliamentary party. Those who say the Serbian political scene should not help the principle, even if the census is 10%, if representatives of small parties are introduced on their list. For example, the predecessor introduced representatives of three small political parties on his list, and this is not a grouping of political parties (votes - which three? ). I don't even know what these parties are called anymore, but these days I've had a chance to watch TV broadcasts threatening radicals. Those who do not exist on the Serbian political scene come out and threaten to win 82 seats. At least the elemental decency there should exist. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, we filed it to fix the law. It's no good. You've given in, and you admit it yourself. Suddenly, the newspaper said minorities were not represented in parliament because a list did not enter parliament. You yourself have given in to this media pressure, and right away, faster and better, the bill by which the parties of the national minority to natural censorship, means by 1% of the vote, enters parliament. The fact that Branislav Kovacevicia's list entered parliament is not a sign that we do not have a minority in parliament. I therefore ask the Administrative Board to provide us with a list of how many MPs, members of the national minorities, are currently in the Serbian Parliament. And that is our answer to all who attack us -- that Serbia has no laws by which minority members can be represented in parliament. Here, let's see, how many minorities are represented in parliament. I don't ask how many were on the lists, because that number would be much higher. Only what we've done is we can prove to everyone who's attacking us whether we're right or wrong. Not what we write. Well, we write and say -- we know this can't be done, but here, we wrote, to take the story off ourselves. No, there will always be stories. The stories will stay. Only in one place must we be united - Serbia must be a state for all its citizens, that it has the same rights and obligations, and that there is no discrimination in it, no greater over the smaller but no smaller one. That kind of discrimination is inconceivable; it's inconceivable. National minorities should live with the Serb people in the community. The community implies different forms of association, and political. I repeat the offer to all the presidents of the political parties representing minorities, come to agree on the list of SRS your party enters parliament and immediately stand out in its parliamentary club. It's a safe way for you to enter parliament. So when we talk about censorship, raise that general censorship to 10%. We'll take part in the election. Do not introduce this censorship for minorities, lower the generals to 3%, minorities will find ways to enter parliament through the coalition of their political parties. And do not give in to the story that an automatic number of MPs should be set for minority members. Because it's going to be two, three or four, and this way it can be 30. I'm against limiting them in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u592	The word is Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Živorad Smiljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on selecting Members of Parliament is just one empty story, which has been going on for two days in this House. Even the proposal was submitted by emergency procedure, which is why I don't see any reason. for such adoption of one such draft law, i.e. by emergency procedure. I only take this as a political marketing law promoter. Because the law has no constitutional basis, and it seeks its constitutional foundation in the Constitutional Charter, which is still only the way to a new constitution. While this constitution is in force, the provisions of the present Constitution must be respected. On the other hand, the second partner in this new coalition declares - this law will not apply in practice, but after the adoption of the constitution we will adopt a new set of electoral laws. So what do we do now? We're telling an empty story, distracting the citizens of Serbia with something we won't apply at all, if we trust this coalition, which should form the government of the Republic of Serbia as of next week. As far as the proposal is concerned, I'll start with Article 4, where it's defined that every citizen can ask for an update of the voter's list. This should be defined a little more precisely, but also by law, to determine that whoever is in charge, and that is the authority of the local self-government and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, and these voter lists are updated daily. We are not going to wait, like so far, from election to election, so 15 days before the election, to force a crowd of citizens to go to local communities and municipalities to update the voter lists there. It's one process that should last all the time, constantly. And the law should define that at last these people who are the most responsible, which are the parent services at the SO and the Ministry of Justice, at least commit to finally updating these electoral lists, so they don't come to the situation that I am, for example. in this election in September on the voter's list, and in the December elections, after two months, I'm not on the voter's list. The following members, who are also superfluous, who are not well or defined, are members 5 and 6. The bill, in which it stands, in the last paragraphs - the number of voters enrolled in special copies of the voter list does not go into the total, or final number of voters. It is repeated in both members, which is excessive and there is no need to stand in either; it is enough... I'm speaking in principle, sir, I'm not talking about amendments, I'm talking about what you suggested here. Next, article 10 deals with the problem of allowing people who are disabled and unable to vote, and that is a good idea, to allow them to vote, and disabled, and immobilised, and impotent and sick, but the provision on board members visiting such powerless persons must be defined differently, not that the president of the election board has the right to determine who is going, because this right is often abused. Article 12 speaks of national minorities. There are two problems: one, to meet them; others, what the radicals say, to create ghettoization. There is no need to create special party lists because it is not well defined which lists of national minorities, who should dictate the criteria, all this is missing in order to introduce this. Suggestions to go by key and that is not acceptable, if we have an example of Croatia, where three Serbs go to parliament, and we know that there are 20% of Serbs in Croatia, so there would be damage. The best way to accept this SRS amendment on a proposal from this member is to reduce the censorship from 5% to 3%, and then everyone will have a chance to participate in parliament. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u594	The word has a folk MP, Živorad Smiljanic, and let Dragan Colic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u595	Since much has been said, I will only speak of a member of the 12th law, which reduces the price for the entry of national minorities into parliament. Serbia in the Constitution which is now in force, we have heard this many times already, wrote that Serbia is the state of all equal citizens living in it. Unlike all neighbouring countries, where the Hungarian state of the Hungarian people, the Croatian state of the Croatian people, the French state of the French people, is already saying in the Constitution that all citizens are equal, we have made it clear that they all have equal rights in this country and that they must not be, in some way, abolished. What will it look like on a political scene in Vojvodina, where there are 26 national minorities and ethnic groups? Hungarians live in Vojvodina today, about 300,000. If they are well organized into one national party, under this law where there are 14000, there could be 20 in parliament. This means that national minorities under this law can be far more represented than we assume, if we talk about censorship. Some countries are democratic. We had the opportunity to see the elections in Croatia now, that three Serbs had entered parliament and they had respected all the standards of democratic Europe, and had previously expelled 700,000 Serbs from Croatia. We see the vulgarisation right in Croatia, where in the city of Zagreb, when they voted for the Zagreb City Assembly, an Italian came out, reported an Italian party, applied himself for the party, voted for himself and was elected to the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, although he lives there about 150 Italians; he voted for himself and, by this law, became a councilman. I mean, do we go through with this law or force national minorities into national parties and drive them into some kind of reservation; I don't know, but I don't think that's right. It's not good because every national party is at a given moment and nationalist. This was our chance to see when the war broke out in the former Yugoslavia, when Yugoslavia was attacked. One was spoken by national leaders, the other by the people. I'm talking about the Hungarians. Kasa never answered and condemned the bombing, or sentenced the bombers to take off from Hungary, but the Hungarians responded with a list of mobilizations. Do you know who knocked down that invisible plane, the famous gray hawk, the American, which was a miracle for America and the whole world? Lieutenant Colonel of the Yugoslav Army, Hungarian, saw him naked with his eye and took him down with a rocket. Secondly, let me tell you, when we are in this same building, but as a federal parliament, we passed the National Minorities Act, we unanimously adopted it. We were proud of it, but I had the chance to listen to us socialists endanger national minorities and, of course, there were claims, Kasa was saying that they had no rights. Then I asked one question – do people know historical facts? The historical fact is that in 1918, when the census was made, 250,000 Hungarians lived in Vojvodina, and 250,000 Serbs in Hungary. Since 1991, there have been 300,000 Hungarians living in Vojvodina, and in Hungary, 6,000 Serbs, of which only two thousand speak Serbian. Therefore, who led an honest policy towards national minorities? From the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to this day, we have always led an honest policy. The communists had a structure, a key. We had to create a Hungarian politician at the time, if we didn't have one. According to that system, ours, which everyone is now talking about – a single-regime, a dark system, in Vojvodina two Hungarians were presidents of the Vojvodina Assembly, Andras Morras and Wilmosh Molnar. Under this law, they can never be. Secondly, I'm talking about the rights of national minorities. I, acting President of the Vojvodina Assembly, received Ramsay Clark, was the U.S. Attorney General. He came, then there was a ban, then he was against America's policy, bombing, then he held a press conference. One of his associates told a true story. In America, they organized a round table on human rights violations in Serbia, and many experts were, and at one point a man appears and says, "Listen here, I am Hungarian from Vojvodina, Serbia, and I have graduated from primary, high school and college in Hungarian language in that Serbia; when in America some Mexican will be able to finish at least elementary school in his language; therefore, do not talk about the threat of human rights. “ Next, what happens to us now on the political scene of Vojvodina? We now have in Subotica a Parliament of duchy parties. What kind of assembly is that? Why is there now a problem between the Vojvodina and the internationalisation of the Vojvodina? Until yesterday, it was no problem at all, nor was the problem this law, nor were there any problems in Vojvodina. The moment a group of people lost power and left the political scene, there was suddenly a big problem. Therefore, I mean - we have led a fair policy towards national minorities in Serbia. I'm not talking about Serbs in Hungary. There were two Serbian eparchys in the Temisvar. Where are the Serbs now? They're nowhere to be found. I don't think this law is right for me, but as a party, we have agreed that we will support it and I will vote for it, but you will see, we are forcing national minorities into ghettoisation, or reservation, where anyone who isn't in that party is a traitor to their people and they will be here and how they organise themselves, there will be more damage. Finally, these national parties benefit from leaders, and minorities have no use for that. I had to provide money in the Hungarian villages and for schools and for everyone. But before the elections, Kasa starts to talk that Triyanon is no longer valid, that there will be another review of the borders and that there will be a great Hungary again. They vote for it, even though it's a simple lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u596	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u597	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, following the 28 December parliamentary election results of the most trusted parties, the majority of voters, citizens of Serbia, and these are the SRS and the DSS, were to, according to a valid, justified, reasoned proposal by Serbian Radicals to form a government together and that the government is going to solve the existential problems of citizens, because Serbia no longer has time to wait. Serbian citizens live in agony, in conditions of major economic crisis and social misery. But it is not the fault of Serbian radicals that this has not happened and that we have been discussing some trivial problems for a few days now, some trivial proposal to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and the current law did not bother our political competitors to win 50, 20, 30 or more terms of office. Now it takes a little bit over the bread, so let's discuss this, which may not be very important for the citizens of Serbia's existence. It seems to me that the authority of the legislator wasn't in fact that it was possible to correct the negative consequences in the election process, but that the motionary was being submitted in any way to certain categories of voters, and that in some way it associated me with those political parties who, in the absence of arguments and the strength of their political programmes, bonded to parties such as the pensioner party, the labourer party, the foreign savings party, and so on. Now, these categories that are threatened by the view of the promoters, if they will be grateful to the DSS and will show – here, the DSS takes care of us. I think that as far as voting for citizens abroad, the SRS has absolutely no prejudice whatsoever and we have nothing against these people, our citizens abroad, voting. It is certain that they feel a great desire for Serbia and that Serbia often lacks it, that they lack our customs, traditions and cultures, that very often Serbian radicals come to us, seeking Serbian marks, Serbian emblems. Very often, at the headquarters of the Smederev District Committee, they come looking for, precisely, those people who live abroad, Serbian coat of arms. I ask them what you are looking for in Serbian workers, which is not with some others, and they say they do not, some have triangles, some roses, some flowers, and we Serbian radicals have the eagles of Nemnjević, and by that we are recognizable. The SRS always stood out before each election, and that was often the voice of the shouting in the desert, the lack of a single voter's list. We do not have a voter list in the state of Serbia, now it is necessary, by intensifiers of amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, to update the list abroad. I am not convinced that this is possible, I know from practice, and we are all activists of our party, we have many choices behind us, we will have hope in the future, very often I have witnessed that members and deputies of Serb radicals get elections Saturday at 24pm, and the election is tomorrow at 7pm. Now we'll take care of everything we need for foreign elections. As for the vote of the powerless persons, the adoption of this amendment, where the president of the electoral committee cannot decide which two members will go, I don't know on what basis he would do so, it's a good thing that the amendment was adopted, and otherwise it was very stupid for the election board president to be given some authority, and they don't have any other members of the electoral approval. The person in custody and those in custody, surely the SRS has an understanding of that category of voters, and that is part of human destiny, that in such a way and in such conditions they vote. We don't mind, but we are against any abuses that have occurred in the past and so much. As for members of the national minorities, we advocate that the censorship decreases from 5% to 3%, and I want here responsible on behalf of the SRS to say, the SRS is the real and only protector of the rights of all members of the national minorities. Serb Radicals and responsible state functions were members of the SRS, otherwise members of national minorities. We had a National MP, she was Hungarian in one session, we had a member of the Roma national minority, who was a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a member of the SRS. We also have the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who proudly says he is a member of the national minority, but is proud and a member of the SRS. Obviously, the legislator has a problem, because anything that awaits us in the coming period can only be the victory of the most powerful, strongest, strongest parties on the Serbian political scene, which is the SRS. I would like to mention here Professor Vojislav Seselj's words from the book "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" – that truth, justice, freedom and country are the most moral values with which a man is born, lives and dies and that the SRS was, that today and there will be both flames and lights of Serbian honor, both Serbian pride and Serbian dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u598	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic, and let the MP Milan Vesenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u599	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs from the G-17 Plus list will support this law because they believe that it offers some good solutions, above all in this section regarding the achievement of women's rights, minorities and persons with disabilities. We know that these solutions are not ideal and that there are much better ones. Of course, it would be better if people with disabilities, even if those who move with help, would be able to get to the polls, and if we were able to remove the construction barriers that prevent them from doing so. Of course we believe that it would be better for the parliament to be 52% instead of 30% of women. However, given that some solutions in this situation are impossible, we will support this law as a transitional solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I will especially speak of this part of the law that regulates certain principles of gender equality. And why is that? Because I believe that these are principles that none of us can question for one basic reason. That is why we are all referring to some democratic principles, to one of the basics above all, and that is why we all claim to represent all Serbian citizens and citizens. Some parliamentary groups, I can say, are happy to call on this principle, saying that they have representatives of various social structures, different education, different professions in their ranks. However, we forget one basic fact: before we started to educate ourselves and divide ourselves by social status or occupation, we were already divided into two basic groups. In fact, our birth was divided into two sexes, and in the earliest years of our lives we began to adopt behaviors that are characteristic of some of these tribes. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is not equal to these two groups cannot claim to represent Serbian citizens as a whole. How is that currently in our Parliament? I think we've already heard that there are only 25 women among us, which is easy to calculate, which makes 10% in this House. I am proud to point out that out of these 25 ladies, 10 of us sits in MPial lines G-17 plus, and that, ladies and gentlemen, it is not because the law has forced us to do so, it is because G-17 plus believes in the principles of gender equality, that is because these principles are incorporated into our statutes and that in our party women are located in all party bodies, in high party functions and in all decision-making places. This once again G-17 plus shows that it really works according to what it says and what it believes. I know the opposite arguments. Those who come from opponents of positive discrimination and who say positive discrimination is nevertheless positive discrimination, all those who are calling for these arguments, I would very much like to see them compete in throwing triplets with Pejo Stojakovic. I am really interested in whether many of them would withdraw in advance, believing that such a game is pointless and whether those who decide to participate in it could achieve any results unless they get a certain advantage in the beginning. That's what positive discrimination is all about. No different groups or individuals can compete under the same conditions unless they have the same starting positions. Why, ladies and gentlemen, women and men do not have the same starting positions? Because for centuries on the scene, it has been gender discrimination. Is that so? I'll call in a few figures and tell you that in a world of 1.3 billion poor, women make up 70%, and 66% of women's work is unpaid, unlike just 25% to 30% of men. Women's profits range from 60% to 70% of men's earnings. According to the United Nations, women perform two-thirds of the world's work. They earn only one tenth of the world's income and own only one percent of the world's assets. I will tell you that in Serbia, the situation is not significantly different and that a significant document, which we are about to discuss here, which was developed by the working group of the previous government, the poverty reduction strategy, explicitly admits that women are more than men at risk of poverty in Serbia. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia 80% of the property acquired in marriage is man-made. Of course, 80% of home jobs are done by women, and 80% of victims of child sexual violence are women. Of the number of graduate students, 60% are women, but out of the total number of university teachers, only 15% are women. Women make up 60% of specialists and 58% of masters and doctors of science, but women only take 19.3% of leading positions. Of course, women make up, as we all know, 52% of the electoral bodies, and there are fewer than 5% of them in the decision-making sites. As it is in our Parliament we have already seen. And what about the congregations of the municipalities? Here, more than half of Serbia's municipalities have one or no women's board, and those who have boards in these municipal councils are represented by less than 5%. I think these are the figures that are vividly talking about how we don't have the same starting position and that in some way we need to level our game. In the end, I'm going to quote Mary Robinson, who said, "A society where you can't hear the voice of women is not less female, it's less human." G17 plus will vote for this law because it supports women's rights, persons with disabilities and minorities, but it will also vote for any other legal solutions that will allow the removal of building, language and psychological barriers, which will allow people with disabilities to exercise all their human rights. They will vote for all the legal solutions that will help children, weak, old, powerless and poor, because G17 plus wants our society to be more human, because G17 plus wants to build Serbia as a country to measure all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u600	The People's MP Milan Veselinovic has the word, and let the People's MP Esad Djudjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and last week and this week, the debate on these legal projects is actually like a party, because we are not solving any burning problem for our citizens, for example, their social problem. Instead of finding laws on the agenda such as the law on privatisation, labour, legalisation and so forth, we are discussing the governor of the National Bank, who already exists, or some new one, and are simply like-minded, and only guess which party will take over the finance. Today we have an addition to the Law on the Elections of People's MPs, and here we have been dating for two days, and I can tell you that this supplement only complicates the electoral law that already exists. Namely, we Serbian radicals, who have been participating in and holding elections since the beginning of the multi-party struggle, know well what bad electoral law means. We felt it most on our shoulders from 1990 to today. It was then felt by all the political parties that were both the position and the opposition. Unlike the former DEPOS, "Together" and DOS, we Serbian radicals fought for theft, bringing our problems to the mitts and the means of information, unlike you who, for the sake of election theft, had to listen to mentors abroad, to get whistles, pots and spoons, to bang for years later, to establish resistance, like your right wing, like your fist, and you went into demolition campaigns to correct some injustice. Today, you are also proposing some legal additions to the electoral law, where there are great gaps, indeterminateness and inadequacy. First of all, the very addition of laws and voters staying abroad is an opportunity to manipulate and end the electoral will of citizens. How? We haven't been able to make a single census of our citizens at the Serbian state level in 10 years, let alone do it in two months with voters abroad. No one can believe that, and I am personally afraid and afraid that it will not happen to you -- as the Dacic's Infantry in Kosovo did in 1993 and 1996, and now probably you through your facilities, embassies and consular offices -- that planes come full of sacks of ballots that won't be correct, which will create new problems. When it comes to the powerless persons who have the right to vote, it is again a big problem, and especially with the provision that you provided for the chairman of the electoral committee to appoint two members. Whether it will be accepted we will wait, but I say that two members of the election committee from a permanent session cannot be appointed, but rather from interested political parties. I've personally found out what's going on in the field. The two members, who elects the president of the election board, if this is a rural area, come to the first stream, sit well and circle whoever they want. When they get to the polls, the other interested party wants to see what's going on. There's an abduction and a fracture in the boxes. That's what happened. If the city is concerned, interested political parties are prepping lists of powerless persons, pre-preparing through their activists. It's just that on that day, the activist is waiting for his grandmother, his sick aunt, to go to vote in their house. That was a big problem. We are not generally against it, but we really need to respect our amendment, where members of the election committee, or representatives of the parties on the election board, will have to be interested. As for the vote of national minorities, ladies and gentlemen, you know well that the Serbian Radical Party programme contains the greatest possible democratic principles and simply treats all citizens the same, according to the highest European standards. I come from Novi Pazar, where the multinational environment and the adoption of such a supplement of the law affects us Serbian radicals, because from year to year Muslims are increasingly voting and are increasingly approaching our party. Personally, in recent years, I've had more and more Muslim members, and in this way, by adopting such a legal supplement, we're simply doing a purely national polarisation between nations and forcing national minorities to vote for their lists. I don't think that's good. As for the censorship, I would advise the gentlemen of this law to accept this 3% censorship for one reason: it will happen to you that more representatives of the national minorities than your satellites, such as the SPO, G17 plus and others, because in the next election you may be left alone. In previous elections, you have also lost your DOS-mania, so I think this 3% censorship would allow small parties to enter parliament on the Serbian political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u602	The People's Messenger, Esad Judžević, has the word, and the peoples of the Messenger Milorad Mircic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u603	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, the Bosniak Democratic Party of Sandzak will certainly vote for this proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia for the simple reason that we and in the pre-election campaign of our citizens have promised that the first move in this republic's parliament will be to abolish the electoral censorship for minorities. In this sense, the DSS proposal is a encouraging political message sent to all citizens who, besides civility, feel that they belong to a particular national minority. I would like to say that the formula that we applied in the previous elections, that two minority parties from Sandzak form a political partnership with a strong democratic option, such as the DS, has proved beneficial and has been beneficial in our region, in which during Milosevic's rule, a traditionally good multiethnic environment exists between the national communities living in our region. It is precisely our partnership with DS that has sent a direct political message to not only the citizens of our Sanjay region, but also to the citizens of the entire country, that we should actually make partner relations between the state, or state-owned parties and the parties of national minorities. Believe me, we saw that in the election campaign, we were holding our meetings in all the cities in Sandzak right in front of a multiethnic band. Such a formula, in the absence of adequate electoral law, has been very beneficial in our region, and I say a political message has been sent and spread. In this regard, the DS, our coalition partner, sent a direct political message precisely on the need to make partner relations between major state-owned parties and national minorities, and thus the DS introduced European principles from so-called. The minority Corps in this House. Of course, it's sad that she only did it with members of a national community, but as an experiment, as one formula, it's really a new political quality on the entire political scene in our country. The proposal of the DSS parliamentary group is a very encouraging political declaration, which in fact remained only at the level of the political declaration; it requires development, to be a stable legal norm, and we, thinking about this proposal, had in mind a whole set of solutions that exist in our environment, from Romania, Hungary, to Croatia and Montenegro, which in a different, very explicit and very stable way, regulates this matter. We, and the Bosniak Democratic Party of Sandzak and the other party representing the minority national community here, will prepare a comprehensive legislative project, which will regulate electoral legislation in an adequate, explicit European way. It is the subject of many conventions, charters, recommendations from OSCE, the Council of Europe, the European Union and other international institutions. Of course, here I would also like to welcome the provisions concerning the possibility of people in the diaspora voting, which is also a new political quality. Bosniaks have three times more abroad than in the region itself, that is, Serbia. In this way, it will also give new political quality, correct the injustice that has been done through electoral legislation to people who are outside, who feel this country as their own. Also, another flaw, the lack that exists in these three articles of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, is certainly that so-called. The natural threshold, which we introduce as a principle of this proposal, in fact, only provides for Hungarians and Bosniaks that they can participate in a direct manner in this Parliament. The other 22 national communities can't really get that right through this bill. It is certainly a great drawback to give too much information to RIK, which will issue certificates to those electoral lists that are registered, whether they represent minority interests or not, and I think it should be specified by a simple provision which is also not ideal, which is that it seems to be seen in the statutes and programme of a particular national minority party or their coalition. In some ways, at least to some extent, it will be an obstacle to some other abuses. I would also like to welcome the proposal, i.e. the possibility of introducing a European principle that 30% of women participate in all parliaments, from local, regional and national. That is what the Bosniak Democratic Party of Sandzak welcomes as a very important shift, an important approximation to European standards in this area. I want to say in the end - I am not concerned that Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic insulted the members of my Bosniak people, I am concerned that she did so from the site of an institution called the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u604	The word has been found by Ambassador Milorad Mircic, and after that, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u605	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently the DS coalition partner has a theme and one representative of the national community comes out on that subject and speaks to draw attention to the public that we Serbian radicals are against their free plea. You can plead whatever you want. No one's trying to stop you. The Constitution and the law of this state allow you. Don't flinch. Gordana Pop-Lazic was clear. She said that we Serbian radicals consider you and always respect you as brothers, and that's what she honestly said, and you move on, you abuse that honesty of Serbian radicals. We have no intention of wasting our time proving to you how sincere our intentions and desires are. You're just proving the opposite with this new appearance. We gave you a hand to cooperate. Tomislav Nikolic told you that you are also open to political co-operation, and you now have the opportunity to make sure on this law that these wishes, which have been made and in this law, have, in the end, bad intentions. What are the bad intentions? First, which raises some questions - when you read this bill, as a young colleague said, interestingly, in two levels, and then lists three levels; it began as Boza Djelic, he says three things, and then says the fourth thing – such as the right to vote received by the diaspora. That right is never disputed and the law has been regulated before. Those rights were used by Serbian citizens living outside Serbia, someone more, someone less, but anyone who expressed a wish and wanted to fulfil their civil rights could have done so in Serbia. Gentlemen, when you list some examples of support for this proposal, at least you have to look at the statistics. The majority of the Serbian diaspora lives in Western European countries. When you look at the previous elections you will see, they were mostly actively politically involved by expressing their opinion by participating in the elections. These are your Serb enclaves, for those of you who do not know, and here your mouth is full of Serbian diaspora. The largest are in Astria, Germany and France. Most of them and most of them come when the elections are. Of course, as in Serbia, so is our diaspora. Someone has a desire to go to the election, someone doesn't. The number of those who went out and those who didn't change it, and you want to plant it now, with a cheap political trick to gain the sympathy of those people who live in the diaspora. Have you forgotten how you cheated on them in 2000? In 2000, you collected money from them, you collected money, with great promises, so you deceived them. That is why, in a larger number, as they came for these previous parliamentary elections, they gave their voice to those they trust. You are aware that by creating this kind of legal opportunity, you are opening up a new problem, and the problem is the possible irregularity of the election. We Serbian radicals have no objection to the exercise of these rights abroad, but elections must be strictly controlled. Have you lost sight of the election commission, that there are election committees, that each party should have its own representative. So, who's going to organise our election? To whom do we Serbian radicals trust - Goran Svilanovic? It doesn't come to mind. What do you think, the one who comes for him is better, that he's more honest? Keep your opinions, and we've known for a long time that it's not My friend, you've been to PDS before, and you've had some experience. [[Thuding.]] So stick to these experiences and don't throw them out of the bench. As far as level two is concerned, as the proposings here state, it's a question of national minority rights. National minorities, other than civil rights, have one additional right, and that is the right of the minority. This is how you deny the civil right of national minorities. In this way, by introducing a category without censorship, you give yourself the right to define an exclusive right to be a representative of national minorities. Why are you doing this? There's no need to do that. Release representatives of national minorities, they will make a coalition, they will go out on their own. Whoever is able to collect 3% on the proposal, which we propose Serbian radicals, will be represented in this parliament, not in the one you like. That's how you discriminate. As far as these midwives are concerned, it's just weird to me that no representative of G17 plus says he's fighting for the rights of sexual minorities. That would be a lot more like you talking about fairy tales here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u606	Mr. Paunović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u607	In accordance with Article 100. "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Mr. Mircic broke the Parliament's dignity with this, the last thing he said. I ask that the Management Board be made aware of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u608	Mr. Esad Juddjevic, replica Mr. Ambassador, if you have anything to say, please report to the Rules of Procedure, you have a pay phone, go ahead and get out, and don't throw it out of place. [[thumping]] I know it's like this, but if it's like this, then control yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u609	I'm going to have to read to Mrs. Pop-Lazic another article in 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "The citizen is guaranteed freedom of expression of nationality and culture and freedom of use of his language and letters. The citizen is not obliged to declare his nationality." Therefore, Mrs Pop-Lazic has no problem with Bosniaks, she has problems with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u610	Replica, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I ask the MPs to take care of how and what they discuss with the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u611	Dear colleague, you've come out on the line to Mr. Mircic, I'm Gordana Pop-Lazic. They taught me to have positive feelings for all people and to share people only with good and bad. I'm starting from the fact that you, too, Mr. Judjevich, are a good man and I have positive feelings for you. So, if that's the case, I expect you to return it to me. I didn't say anything bad about you, nor do I have a problem with the Constitution, nor do I have a problem with you. You have a problem with identity and emotions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u612	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudić has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dragutin Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u613	In the debate that has been going on for the second day, we have had the opportunity to hear a series of objections to this bill. These remarks are the most explicit and best pictured in the amendments submitted by individual MPs on this draft law. When these amendments are read, exactly those neural points are seen, in the opinion of these parliamentary groups, where this bill is not good. We heard different arguments. However, the debate, which is being held, is somewhat similar to that of the old folk "who in the cuneiform, who in the board". So here we are presenting an important argument of the constitutional justification of these solutions and, above all, the justification in that the existing legal solution is not in line with the Constitution of this country. Also in the opening statement, when I explained as a representative and rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, I noted that an existing legal solution, i.e. The current Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments, to a large extent, does not comply with Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which explicitly states: "The citizen who turned 18 has the right to choose and be elected to the National Assembly and other bodies and electoral bodies. The elections are direct, the electoral right is general and equal, and the vote is secret. “ When I quote this provision, I will look back on a few things: first, the right of members of national minorities to exercise their electoral right in the election process. We'll see that there were two conflicting attitudes that we heard. One position was mainly represented by members of the SRS, and the other was heard by one minority party on the Democratic Party list, as it thus entered parliament. These two attitudes are diametrically opposite and both very wrong. In my opinion, the position of the SRS has tried to correct the alleged, they say, unconstitution created by the proposal for our law on amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. They start with the whole problem being resolved by reducing the censorship from 5% to 3% and thus that members of the national minorities will be in a better position than they were in the time and during the current law. I will remind you that this election law is not really, as is said here, an old law, nor a relic of communist times. The law was created in 2000 and we all know very well who proposed the law, whose proposal it was adopted. It was adopted due to a certain amount of time extortion, without overthinking of participants in political life, in order to hold elections in December 2000 as soon as possible and in a better way. After that, the law has not been amended to this day. What irregularities are these, which are non-constitutions that exist in the law, which relate to Article 42. First, and first of all, one large number of voters has been disabled from voting. We've been instructed on what categories of voters these are. They are powerless persons, persons serving prison sentences, persons in custody, and yet, in the end, they are also persons abroad, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our country, they also have the right to Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We must once begin to realize that right. In general, the whole story about whether or not our voters need to vote abroad is extremely groundless and with that general and first flossula anyone who comes out for this pay phone moves, and then they dispute the concrete solutions that are proposed here. First and foremost, the existing electoral law must be amended urgently by this law, which is given by an emergency procedure, in order to urgently remove the unconstitutional nature of the existing legal solution. The issue of adopting new electoral legislation in Serbia is open, it is quite possible and should happen as soon as a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia is passed. Until then, however, we must have certain transitional solutions that must go to meet the constitutional solutions of the future constitution. As far as minorities are concerned, there is a principle that provides for the Constitutional Charter and so on. A small charter of rights called the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The Small Charter is an integral part of the Constitutional Charter and is based on certain international documents, and in Article 16. The constitutional charter stands - ratified international agreements and widely accepted rules of international law have primate over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the law of the Member States. So that's the letter of the Constitution, gentlemen. That letter of the Constitution must be respected. In addition, certain rules of international law are - General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the OSCE Final Act, the Paris Charter for New Europe, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the protocols signed under this Convention. These are certain international documents that produce what we in theory call the right to positive discrimination. It is, as we have said, provided in a small charter, in Article 49, which has the title - a prohibition of discrimination; in the position of the 3rd member, it is said - will not be considered discrimination those regulations, measures and actions aimed at ensuring the rights of members of national minorities, when they are in an unequal position, in order to allow them to enjoy full rights under equal conditions. Therefore, the abolition of censorships for members of national minorities and parties expressing their primary objective - the protection of the rights of a particular national minority - is an absolute and complete protection in this regard. This is absolute positive discrimination. I accept that there are other forms of positive discrimination in the environment, but this is a clean and good solution. On the other hand, proposals have been made to strengthen this provision to some other rights, and this time they really do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and are not in line with these other international documents. It's a common principle, it's one voter, one voter, which, by certain suggestions here put forward in front of this assembly, violates. A double vote is foreseen: for a list of national minorities, and on the other hand for a list of majority parties, as well as a ban on voting for a minority list to vote for any other minority list other than that for which it has been predetermined, or for which it has practically allowed its name to be placed on a special voter's list. This primarily violates the secrecy of the vote, which is provided for in Article 42 of the Constitution. It's just not possible. As for our voters abroad, we used the following formulation in our bill - that voters who have a residence abroad, according to the last residence, before going abroad, or according to the last residence of one of their parents. This obviously caused some confusion, and we saw according to an amendment that came from the ranks of the SRS to predict the erasure of this section relating to the residence of one of the parents. This would exclude a large category of our voters living abroad and they would, given that our country's citizens, have and have to be entitled to Article 42. Constitution i.e. the right to vote in the election. What would we do then in the case of a Yugoslav emigrant or a member of his family, otherwise under the Law on Yugoslav Citizenship which still applies can be admitted to Yugoslav citizenship if they meet the conditions laid down in Articles 12n, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Yugoslav law, i.e. that it is not punishable by a prison for a criminal offence which makes it inadequate for the admission to citizenship and that its conduct can conclude that it will respect the legal order of Yugoslavia, and its residence is not sought as a basis for admission to citizenship. So what about a member of the family of our emigrants who met these conditions and who, by the time of the age of 18 of life, applied to our diplomatic and consular representation, requested and received the citizenship of this state. Are we going to make it impossible for that citizen of our country to vote, and according to the amendment that has come from the ranks of the SRS, it is precisely an urgency, that a huge category of such persons is being prevented from exercising their electoral right under the current Constitution, Article 42. As for the right to appeal for the electoral procedure, because the law intervened with regard to the right to appeal, which is also constitutional law, in one part the right was also disabled. This right was also disabled in other electoral laws of this country, and was taught by the experience of the famous electoral theft, which took place in 1996, in the Law on Local Elections, Article 50, a major step has been made, it is prescribed that each applicant, namely the applicant, has the right to lodge a complaint against any election commission solution which rejected or rejected his objection or against any solution which has been adopted. This is due to the fact that, in a specific case, in the proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, an appeal may be made by any applicant of the electoral list against any solution by appeal. I'll give you a very plastic example. If the applicant of one electoral list objectes to a particular electoral action, the RIK therefore annuls the election in a number of polling stations, then other participants in the electoral process. Representatives of the motions of other electoral lists against such a solution shall not be entitled to submit any legal remedy. The cancellation of elections in these polling stations was not in the interest of all participants in the process. It was just a mechanism through which the famous electoral theft took place in the local elections in 1996. So, a political party that had an interest, since it obviously did not like the results of the election during the election night, decided to make mass objections, in a large number of polling stations, and then the municipal electoral commissions respected the position on the founding of these objections and greatly annulled the elections in these polling stations. The other, on the other hand, with obvious legal interest, could not dispute those solutions, either through emergency legal medicines, to the Supreme Court of Serbia. Simply, the election was canceled. This was the reason why Lex specialises in the recognition of election results in early 1997. Therefore, the intention to allow for the right to appeal against any solution of RIK which has been decided on the objection is not only guaranteed by the Constitution to any participant of the electoral process, but the right to remove such doubt and such dangers as we experienced once in the winter of 1996. That would be briefly what I had to present, and I think all the arguments made so far have been very clear. On several occasions, the speaker's representative went out for this speaker, saying after other debates, trying to explain some ambiguities, but I can see how this debate is moving, there are some arguments here, and these arguments are not answered, but are persistently arguing what was claimed at the very beginning of this debate. Therefore, it is clear that in this sense attitudes are not approximated, but I think that citizens who watch this transmission are clear who is right and who are doing what is necessary to protect the interests of citizens and constitutional order.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u614	The People's Messenger Dragutin Peric has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs at the very beginning points to the conclusion that the coalition's intention to conclude a government is, in a certain way, advocacy to categories of electoral bodies that have not been covered by the Law on the selection of MPs. This way he's just trying to deceive that electoral body that he's going to be able to exercise his electoral right. For example, if we look at the proposal for a legal solution, the foreign ministry proposes to chair the election board of a graduate lawyer employed by the embassy or a consulate where elections are held. Furthermore, dealings with the addition of the diaspora voter lists are conducted by an official employed in the diplomatic and consular representation. It is obvious that only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through embassies and officials, has interference in pre-election operations and can have an impact on the very course of voting. Also, the paper is with the proposed law, and now it introduces a new category of voters who are allowed to vote, but only in such a way that they can participate in the vote, which refers to the category of persons who support the prison sentence and detained persons. However, there is no point in them being able to participate, i.e. to be members of the electoral committees, in particular there is no difference between those who support prison sentences and detained persons. This points to one conclusion – that it is not a full electoral right for that category, since they are not given the right to start, the law does not foresee that they take part in election committees. It's narrowed down, especially when it comes to this category of detained persons. The earlier Decision of the Law on the selection of MPs allowed members of the electoral committees to visit voters at their homes in order to allow them to vote. However, the legal provision was later abolished, while you are now trying again to introduce this legal solution through this proposed law. However, it is not through the proposed law that disabled and powerless persons are involved, and it can be seen from the very proposal that the term "preserved persons" is used there. How a concrete voter can be prevented, you don't give any clarifications, so, for example, for example, elections can happen at a time when the great flu epidemic prevails, then you leave the possibility to the election committees that they themselves are assessing for the polling post that the voter is being prevented. In this way there can be manipulation by the electoral committee itself, i.e. specifically from the president of the electoral committee on the visit of persons who, as you say, have been prevented through the bill. Also, in the vote, as regards the exercise of the diaspora's electoral right, could so many polling stations be opened in a foreign country where there is a Serb diaspora, given the legal solution -- up to 2.5 thousand voters per polling post. How much should this be opened in certain countries where the diaspora should vote, so that indeed in a complete manner and evenly all the voters in the diaspora can exercise their electoral right. On the subject of the so-called, as you call it, positive discrimination, the best solution to the passing of national minorities to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia would be to implement it by introducing a 3% census for all election lists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u616	The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u617	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to say that the SPS supports the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of the People for a number of reasons. First of all, we are convinced that what is proposed represents an improvement in the existing law. On the other hand, everything that's said is in line with our programming definitions, so we really have a lot of reasons to support this law. However, our support is still cautious, since, during the debate, we heard the opinions of pro et contra, there are some things that have not been finalised in the draft of this law. It is the definition of parties that can be represented as parties to national minorities. According to this article of the Bills, these can be almost all parties, so there should be extensive interpretation of what is meant by the parties of national minorities. Here's an example; according to the last 2001 census, 10.15% of citizens said they were Vojvodina. Are the duchess a national minority and what parties in this case may be party national minorities? We support the principle of positive discrimination embedded in the draft of this law and, as I come from Vojvodina, I want to draw attention to the fact that Vojvodina is an example of how positive rules governing the status and rights of national minorities are applied in practice. In addition, however, the fact is that there is a very strong separatist movement in Vojvodina, aimed at the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. Since the DOS has helped so-called autonomous parties, as they are now called, to come to power three years ago, it has been working intensively to prepare the political climate and adopt formal legal acts that will allow the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. There is no more of that famous Cankova - where our money is - since Omnibus has passed many responsibilities from the republic to the province, a lot of money has been deposited in the province, but even so, the autonomists had no problem with the money. Namely, behind them are Hungarian, pardon American billionaire Gjerj Soros, alias George, then Otto von Habzburg; when he comes to Vojvodina, specifically to Kanjiz, he is welcomed similar to his great-grandfather Franjo Joseph and so on. Just these days, using the pre-election, electoral and this current post-election interregnu, the autonomist parties are working very intensively to produce a solemn song or an anthem of Vojvodina, as well as the flags of Vojvodina. That's probably what you've been informed of from the information funds. I would like to remind you that the coat of arms of the Vojvodina have already been made, that a decision has been made on the formation of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. So, slowly but surely Vojvodina takes some prerogative statehood. In March, however, a session of the Vojvodina Assembly, which will discuss the so-called basic law of Vojvodina, namely the Vojvodina Constitution, in which, if adopted, Vojvodina will become an equal partner with Serbia or the rest of Serbia, or round the process of obtaining judicial, executive and legislative authority. In one word, the Vojvodina will thus receive a prerogative state. At the same time, on the proposal of the Executive Council, it will be discussed in the Assembly of Resolutions on the return of the exiles from 1990 to 2000, as if, I don't know, someone had been exiled for those 10 years from Vojvodina, when we all know that several hundred thousand refugees from the former SFRY have come to Vojvodina. So he's trying to present himself that there were even exiles, which is not true. The process of uniting autonomous parties is still under way. All that has been happening in the last few days, and regarding the reformist party and other phenomena, is essentially the homogenisation of autonomous parties, which need these days at the Subotic Convention to practically unite all their potentials. What is also very important to emphasise is the process of internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue has already begun. For the process of internationalization of the issue, Vojvodina is responsible for the head and beard of Mr. Živan Berisavljevic, a well-known autonomist from the age of Josip Broz Tito. The Belgrade press writes about all these phenomena quite sensational, so it can be felt that what is happening in Vojvodina, the head of which Canak, or whose exhibit he is, seems so rather grotesque and unserious. But secessionism in Vojvodina is not as primitive and aggressive as the one in Kosovo and Metohija, but it is no less dangerous for our country. That is why I would like to point out that everything the Assembly will do, in the sense that minority rights and living conditions in social, economic and any way will certainly help to stop this process. And he's in a more advanced phase, and it would be good to work more efficiently and put all these questions and problems very quickly on the agenda of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u618	The word is Stefan Zankov, and after him is the Messenger of Takach Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against the amendment laws and amendments to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. I simply believe that this law is so unseriously prepared that its possible application will lead to disastrous consequences in Serbia in political terms. A few things that are most problematic for me here I'll try to expose you now. First of all, as regards the vote of our citizens abroad, which we are not against in principle, there are two problems of organisational nature. There is a question of multi-party control of the election process abroad, and you agree that any such process should go through without any possibility that someone later raises doubts about the election results and the procedures themselves. I simply cannot be convinced that someone, like current Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic, whose intentions are certainly not good not only for Serbian radicals, will do anything to make the elections go without a problem. He has a lot of authority here in Article 11, where it is said that members of a permanent election committee abroad are appointed by the Republic Election Commission on a proposal from the foreign affairs ministry. That is so unacceptable, because who can trust one Goran Svilanovic who, along with his ambassadors, consuls, officials. to conduct this election procedure. The proposing representative says the election committees will be formed abroad as well as in the country. That's just not true. As a party, we don't have party infrastructure abroad. The problem arises that our members will go to the polling stations, and the proposer's representative is probably counting on the fact that, if there is power, as of yesterday's statement here, they will be able to use state infrastructure for their own purposes. That's why it's practically unacceptable for us. He also says - the ambassador will not participate directly in this. Not the ambassador, but he wants his closest associates, so they're going to race who's going to steal more votes, go to him and then get more privileges on his side. It's also unacceptable. It is as if you would now say that the country's election board members have the Republic Election Commission on a proposal from the interior ministry. This is how it comes, and then the interior minister and his associates would run the election process, as we have experience of how it was done when police interfered in Kosovo in 1997 and so on. It leads things in that direction, and that's why it's unacceptable for us. Another problem with voting abroad for us Serbian radicals is how will you allow all our citizens abroad to vote? I don't know how you predicted it. You can't record them, let alone vote. There are great distances where people live, so you'll probably say -- where there's an embassy, there's a hundred citizens, they'll vote, and a few hundred miles away, there's a few of our citizens, they're smaller and we don't care about those few. No, the principle has to be the same for everyone: either they vote everyone, or they won't vote anyone. As for this voter control, in article 10, you say that two members of the election committee, appointed by the chairman of the election board, are going to the voters who have been prevented for some reason to reach the polling station. We also don't mind in principle, but there must be much safer multi-party control of the vote outside the polling station. Why didn't you simply say that three members, five members, would leave immediately, and that they would be members of different political parties, or representatives of different electoral lists. It's the easiest thing in this law to change and implement. We don't mind at all. We think they should vote, too, but with great caution. That wasn't enabled before. The second part of my discussion would be to abolish the censorship of the so-called. parties to national minorities. I'm saying so-called. Because this is where the unknown is introduced, some new category, category of political parties -- national minority parties. All of this is based on one definition given in the bill, and you leave the right to the Republic Election Commission to interpret that definition and determine which party is the protector of the interests of national minorities. Article 12 states: "The political parties of national minorities are all parties whose main objective is to represent and represent the interests of the national minority and protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, in line with international legal standards." The Serbian Radical Party is a party whose main objective is to represent and represent the interests of the national minority, protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, in line with international legal standards. Who can tell me that's not true? Just no one. It is now a key problem, and here you counter-constitutionally share citizens and political parties in two camps. I don't know if you want them to stand up, but share them in two camps. As inadmissible negative discrimination, it is neither good nor positive discrimination. We will have a practical situation that two political parties with the same number of votes in the elections will pass in different ways. One will enter parliament, only because someone is in the Republic Election Commission, and the question is who will sit down, estimated it to be a party that protects the interests of national minorities. The other one won't, because that's not how it's supposed to be. For us Serbian radicals, it doesn't matter. We will always cross the census and it is not controversial, but there is a possibility of a large number of abuses. You will see which parties you favor, if you cannot cross the census, you simply say that these are parties that protect the interests of national minorities and put them in parliament. After they do what they do with you, it doesn't matter now. You're simply pushing members of national minorities into isolation, into ghettoization, whatever you want. With this speaker, I call on them to join the Serbian Radical Party, they will always be candidates on the Serbian Radical Party's electoral lists and will be elected to the highest state office from there. In my own example, I prove that the Serbian Radical Party is the only principled political party in terms of protecting the rights of national minorities, which protects the rights of all national minorities. At the end of this presentation, as you plead as power yesterday, although the government has not yet been formed, I have decided to give you a well-intentioned advice, you will allow me to do so. Instead of trying to share people in this way, bring some law that will allow people to work, live off their work, not distract them with this kind of nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u620	The word of the messenger of the people is Takach Istvan; and after him is the messenger of the people, Alexander the Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs for a number of reasons. We, in the basic programme of work and in the pre-election activity, have repeatedly pointed out that we want true changes and that we represent all citizens, all options in this society, in the state of Serbia. I am sure that according to statistical elements, as already said for this speaker, the national minority, as far as election law is concerned, are unable to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the next period under this law, anyone who wants to participate in the election race can also participate in a representative in parliament. It is certainly one thing, that in the coming period, when the Constitution regulates this issue differently, and every parliamentary group in this assembly has expressed such a wish, a set of laws will be passed in this area. Therefore, I would like to point out that this 5% threshold remains still, with this issue being regulated differently in the basic Law on the selection of MPs in the coming period. The proposed solution in Article 12. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs G17 plus considers one of the possible solutions. But until we have another solution, we suggest that the National Assembly adopt it. We also advocate that birth representation be equal, as already proposed in the amendment, and G17 plus here and accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u622	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Snezana Lakicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u623	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group, as you know, will vote against this bill. I would like to point out that certain norms of the proposed law are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that "citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or any personal property. “ Here, I think, the first step highlights the difference, which should not be pointed out, with regard to the nationality of certain citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that such a kind of difference that is made by force towards the citizens of Serbia cannot be accepted in any way and at no cost, and that is not enough or a good argument for those who would say that Nenad Canak said it was a gooisation, I don’t know what Canak was saying. It seems to me that no one from the SRS will ever agree with anything that man would talk about, but what's for sure is that he can't, can't, and can't be in any way, which is to separate members of the national minorities into special reserves and to say -- now, Serbian citizens, you're dividing on this issue. I don't think Serbian citizens should be divided into whether Serbs, whether Slovaks, whether Hungarians, Russians, Romanians or members of any other nation, have equal rights in accordance with the constitution, are in accordance with the laws. It's their business, their private right, that however they want to exercise their national feelings, of course they don't endanger the national feelings of other peoples. So, what's this about? It says here, in Article 12, that the political parties are the national minorities of the party whose main objective is to represent and represent the interests of the national minority. Now the question arises, and why are you giving someone that kind of exclusivity, that it has the sole objective of representing the interests of the national minority. I am sure that Mr Omeragic and Djudjevic, but everyone else in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, too, wants to share the interests of all other citizens, not just their minorities, as it is not our job to represent only the interests of the Serb people in the same way. Why are we making this kind of political problem? For two reasons. First, when you do this, you will fragment Serbia's political scene to national parties, national Serb parties and national minorities. It's something we can't, we won't accept. We want these to be parties that will differ in ideological terms, to be left-wing, right-wing, centre-party, those that will be for liberal capitalism, those that will be for public welfare, or perhaps some that will be for social property, administrative management of the economy, to share political parties, not whether they belong to a particular nation or not. It's something the SRS can't accept. It is also contrary to a number of international conventions, civil and political rights pacts. We have to consider the next fact, which is that we've been commended here by CeSID's law model. The SRS has just started its amendment by looking at experiences from comparative legal-political practice, and even that mentioned CeSID model offers the same solution as the SRS solution, by making a slightly better solution, because they said it was 2% and we 3%. For what? That's two reasons. First, for better representation of Serbia's citizens' will in general. Why should some parliamentary groups, including today, who, by mistake or by chance, have entered parliament at the moment, but in two months or now to hold elections would not have entered parliament, would not have crossed that censorship, but if this 3 percent SRS solution were accepted, then perhaps one of those two lists could have crossed the censorship by 3.1% or 3.2%. On the other hand, we saw that when we organize those who think it's the only way they should be organised, but that's the right of certain political groups that want to represent themselves as the only protectors of national minorities, that they can reach a 3% censorship, even 4%. So that's not a big problem for them. Then what's the problem? I think there are two reasons why the proposer did this. Namely, the proposer is counting on the so-called. With the natural threshold of power to have support, but safe, in the fight against the SRS, because they will try in every way to find whether Mr. Omeragic or anyone else, who will campaign against Serbian radicals and say they are against national minorities. No, we're not. Of course not. Mr. Zankov spoke earlier, he is the vice-president of the National Assembly, and he is a member of the Bulgarian national minority. But that's the point and that's the only possible rational reason why you're doing this. How is it possible that the party, which receives 15,000 or 20,000 votes, has its own teams in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you will explain it, while the party gets 150,000, even 170,000 votes, and does not enter the Serbian Parliament. Shall we say that the voice of members of national minorities is 10 times more valuable than the voice of anyone. I don't think that can be a solution, and we've all advocated general and equal voting rights. The members of national minorities are no better, but neither are we, and we help them by lowering the censorship, which we will reduce the censorship to 3%, while giving that opportunity to other parties, to all others who can't do it differently. We will be better represented in the Serbian Parliament and those who would have 4%, and have not entered this assembly, will have their MPs in the highest national representation. As far as the voices you're providing to the people of the diaspora are concerned, if it weren't for the worst possible hypocrisy, we wouldn't have reacted, but we know how it goes. Some come, hold a meeting, we promised you that you would vote, however impossible and no matter what problems it creates, we should now be willing to cast it out to the end. There are no concrete and correct electoral solutions in this case, but you will insist on it, trying to abuse what we all want, but they are asked how we can achieve it. Then you'll say, "Yeah, don't vote for the SRS," because they were so against people who live abroad, they're against their interests, they're bothered by something, etc. No, we don't mind pointing that out again in all those cities you've mentioned, I don't know if you're going to organize it in Monrovia, I didn't know that there's a significant number of our people who have a place. I see some of them are employed in the Maldives, it's nice. We're applying, let's all work out who's going to go to the Caribbean together, like the Maldives, but if we can get it right. It is only possible, according to the SRS proposal, that every 100km should be a polling station. If we have in Germany in Munich open, he doesn't have to go to Berlin, he's closer to Belgrade than Berlin. So it makes sense if he can go over 100 kilometers from Pasau to Munich, not that he has to go to Berlin, otherwise he can come to his country. These are solutions that must be accepted in order for the law to be enforceable and that we can in any way ensure the will of our citizens from the diaspora, to appear in the right way. On the other hand, there's this kind of danger that we used to have by voting in barracks and prisons, where there was no multiparty control. You know that always those voices, more than 90%, came for power. That's why, in agreement with DOS, in October and November 2000, we proposed this law to avoid any possible type of theft, any possible type of manipulation. If we didn't worry about all this, we'd love to, if you'd like to leave a 5% censorship, we don't have that kind of problem, we want to help some of the other parties we talked about. You can raise the census to 25%, only the SRS would pass it. So that's not our problem, that's what others have to think about. In the end, I would ask you not to abuse the story of the diaspora in the future, the interests of our people and our citizens living abroad. We are their legitimate representatives, because the largest number of votes we have just won in the previous elections. Be assured that the number of votes will increase, just as it is increasing in all parts of Serbia, and this may be in a symbolic sense a beautiful victory. From America to Australia, radicals are defeated everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u624	The People's Messenger, Snezana Lakicevic, has the word after it, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u625	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to announce me by my full name and last name in the future. My name is Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u626	As it's ticking, that's how I read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u627	I just wanted to draw attention to you or the service. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the first time, I have been speaking from this pay phone, and I was hoping that in my first sentence, I won't have to realize that, unfortunately, I have the opportunity to hear a certain hate speech from this place. The SPS MPs coming from Vojvodina, completely unwarranted and without reason, have sent a series of criticisms to residents and voters from Vojvodina, addressing the parties of Vojvodina's regional character, but parties representing the interests of national minorities, even though they know that they are not presently in this parliament and cannot replicate them. Autonomy is a constitutionally guaranteed right and should not divide the people and voters of Vojvodina into loyal and unfair citizens of Serbia. They are all citizens of Serbia and, as far as I know, none of us representing the citizens of Vojvodina in this House, right now, is considering either secessionism, internationalisation, nor any problem, nor the Serbian Parliament, and especially the state of Serbia. I would like to warn those who are speaking to northern Serbian voters in the future, if this kind of exposure occurs. Of course, the Democratic Party and the newspaper Boris Tadic, as our head of the parliamentary group said, will support the law proposed by the DSS, but I must draw attention to certain problems that we have noticed and certain inaccuracies that, in any case, appear in this amendment and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs. My personal confidence, but I also assume that most MPs, is that the degree of interconnection between people in Serbia, Vojvodina, in multinational environments is much greater than can be seen through this law. In the light of Article 12, The proposal says that the new item requires a precise definition of the term "party - National Minority". That's the definition given. When someone tends to define something that represents a legal question, but also a fundamental thing, by the rule that definition can never do precisely and of course involves possible mistakes. That's the way it is in this case. According to the proposal, the parties of national minorities are those parties whose primary objective is to represent and represent minorities and protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities. This is the primary objective of the party of national minorities by law and unjustly limited. This speaker was told that this represents the exclusiveness of the parties of national minorities. I don't think so. Of course, I think that all parties have the right and obligation to represent the interests of national minorities, above all because, as a rule, the national majority always defines the status of national minorities. It is in our best interest that, in accordance with international legal standards, this status of national minorities is compatible with European standards. But it does limit these parties. Does this mean that a party of national minorities cannot have a second basic objective: economic, environmental, political, because they will not meet the requirements of the law at that time, thus neither the right to participate in the allocation of the mandate, independent of the censorship. The promoter is aware that there may be misunderstandings about this definition, especially when there are several parties within a national minority and the solution is that it gives the electoral commission the right to decide whether or not the list has the position of the political party of the national minority, i.e. the coalition of national minorities. So, according to the power of the law, the commission will determine that I should use, in a sense, a union term, a representative party within a national minority or a group that this right will take over, which these conditions meet or do not meet, in accordance with the discretionary law of the Republic of Election Commission. This decision, of course, we don't think it can be in the commission's jurisdiction. The Commission, in accordance with the law, has in its work a large number of significant organisational, administrative and technical affairs that enable the successful conduct of the elections. However, it cannot make decisions concerning the legal and political system and its functioning, and in our confidence in a specific case it is just such a decision. I wanted to draw attention to this lack of attention. I would like to refer to another amendment proposed by the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic. It is an amendment to women's representation, or less represented gender on the electoral lists. As you know, our country signed an international treaty in November 1981, which has committed itself to, or adopted, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. There are three ways to regulate it properly. These are constitutional quotas, quotas in the law on elections or provisions of the national parliament and quotas of political parties. The proposed solution is much like the solution proposed in the elections for local self-government authorities. We will talk about this a little bit more when this amendment comes to the agenda, but I urge the MPs to think about it, because as you have the opportunity to see, unfortunately, I suppose, members of the majority gender represented in the Assembly, there are an unforgivable few women in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u628	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, with just one note - I am not adamant about your name and name, but about the president of your parliamentary group, who has so reported you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u629	Dear fellow MPs, I came out to replicate on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, as previous speaker Mrs. Lakicevic mentioned a hate speech and brought him into context with the SPS and Dr. Krstic's exposure. I must say that those who understood what Mr Krstic said will see it as well-intentioned remarks and examples of what is going on in the AP Vojvodina, because he pointed out people who are carrying something bad and certainly do not contribute to good international relations. Of course, he mentioned our relationship to this law. It is absolutely not correct for Mrs Lakicevic to give us lectures and to mention the hate speech, because she should look a little bit better at what her colleagues, the MPs from the party she belonged to, told us, the SPS members, over the past three years, because they had the exclusive right to be interpreters of speech and presentations of MPs, so the president of the National Assembly also mentioned the red-black coalition, anti-reform forces and representatives of the previous regime at the time. Not to mention what was said at a time of emergency, which was unconstitutionally introduced. I'm mentioning this because double standards are used. I hadn't noticed that anyone from that party, for the last three years, wanted to appear as a representative of all Serbian citizens and that someone who spoke on behalf of the caller Serbia had at least publicly announced that it was protesting, say against the exposure of Nenad Canka three or four weeks ago on television, when the SPS members called the fascists. It was a flagrant example of hate speech, but no one, but no one, since they were spokesmen of anything called "tolerant" and for Serbia acceptable, came forward. Therefore, if you understand what Mr. Krstic said, you will realize that it is well-intentioned. We have pointed out that we will vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, and when our representative speaks in the second part, we will also mention those positive examples of minority policy, so there is no reason to tell us about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u630	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u631	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not address Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic only as regards Mr. Krstic's exposure, but also as regards Mr. Smiljanic's exposure. It is true that Mr. Krstic's words were harsh, and the findings did not always correspond to the real state of things, but I would rather refer to Mr. Smiljanic's presentation and why Mrs. Stojacic spoke of it. The DS, the newspaper Borist Tadic, believes that it was inappropriate to expose the Hungarian national community in Vojvodina about the similarity of members of the Hungarian national community, so I don't know if it was a pilot or if it shot down a plane. It's completely off the subject we're talking about. National minorities in this country have absolutely equal rights, like all other members of the majority people, have the right to positive discrimination, or to enter parliament, because it is absolutely in line with all European standards and there is no such principle in Serbia alone yet. That is why we will support such a proposal, although it is extremely lacking in the bill and it is not right to make that kind of comparison, as the 250,000 Hungarians in Serbia and 250,000 Serbs in Hungary have been told, because historic facts are being avoided. Historical facts are falsified and a bad international relationship is created. In 1922 and 1923, a bilateral agreement was concluded between the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Hungary, and then there was a large settlement of Serb living in Hungary, primarily in the territory of Vojvodina, but also in other parts of Serbia, and that is the reason why the Serb national community was then decimated, over 80% of the Serb national community has moved. Yeah, because my family's one of the ones that moved. Thus, there was simply a dispersion, not because in any way the right to express national speciality was compromised. Over time, there was, of course, natural assimilation, as did members of the Hungarian national community. The Hungarian national community decreases by about 40,000 every 10 years, the number of members of the Hungarian national community. And we are as many Serbs, as many Orthodoxs, as many patriots as we look at the people who live with us, how much we respect our fellow citizens, how much we respect our neighbours, and it is extremely inappropriate for such archbishops to falsify historical facts and establish a state that we had in the 1990s and that brought much evil to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u632	On the occasion of the application of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u633	Thank you, Mr. Marsican, for the opportunity to say a few words about Mr. Pitiæ's exposure. Namely, in the way MPs are exposed to whether they speak in a manner appropriate to this home, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, rather than Mr Pajtic, decides. If he doesn't like what Mr. Smiljanic said, he can say it here in public, and he can talk to him. As far as the fact is concerned, Mr. Pajtić, whether you like it or not, that the number of Serbs in Hungary is negligible, and that there were both in years and decades ago. And, while you're already referring to the fact, you should know that in the mid-19th century, Hungarians made up a minority of the people of that time in Hungary. And now there are, as they say, in the absolute majority and it's not about assimilation, it's about a purely natural process. The policy that was led in the country was such that minority members were simply turned into majority people, that is to say and do not forget these statements that Hungary's leaders are making, related to Hungarians, territory and Serbia. It would be our minority policy that, even if we, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are talking about facts. When you look at everything, but just all of these countries in our environment, you will see that only the previous SRJ or now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the state that adopted all or almost all international acts and documents concerning the position and rights of minority members. She's the champion of it. In 1992, the SRJ made a UN Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Ethnic, Language and Religious Minorities, but they did not allow us then, because of known events, to attend the UN General Assembly session to adopt it. What she was -- she was something our country should have been proud of. There is another information that is better than anything in favour of Serbia leading a good minority policy and it is good that this law is also being adopted. It is an objective one upgrade of the country's positive minority policy, which is the number of minority members in Serbia and other countries that are surrounded by Serbia. Serbia alone has remained in the vicinity of all these countries with a significant number of minority members. Look at the fax. Other minorities were killed statistically, not to mention how they were treated in practice, and we need no one to teach us how to do better elsewhere in the environment. Look at the invoices, look at the facts, and you'll see that our country was someone who had an absolute quality minority policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u634	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u635	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was talking about facts. So, Mr. Smiljanic said that there were two eparchys in the Temisvar, which was never the case, there was only one Temisvar epary. He carried out a whole series of simple historical counterfeits, and if it is true, and it is true, that the number of Serbian living in Hungary has been dramatically reduced, the dramatic fear of Serbian living in Romania has fallen, it cannot be an argument that we are denying the right of national communities in this country. That can't be an argument against national minorities. This cannot be the subject of comparison with what this law offers to representatives of national minorities, and that is positive discrimination and that is something that makes us bigger. It does not make us more vulnerable to someone who is small and who is a national minority in our country, but makes us as Serbs more able to have greater rights than Serbs in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u636	The work continues at 15.00 hours. The board of directors shall begin the session immediately, in an O.R. on the second floor. [[After break -15:30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. I'm guessing we have a quorum to keep working. The first to be declared is the People's MP Verica Radeta, followed by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u638	Ladies and gentlemen, the serious parliaments of the serious states, which tend to be the rule of law, deal with the adoption of comprehensive and comprehensive laws and do not spend time in debate and the adoption of what the promoter here calls a step towards the law. All of us, or most of us here, felt the consequences of poor election laws, and we all fought our way to improve the electoral laws and the regularity of the electoral process. We of the SRS have done so in parliament, always making the right arguments. You were banging into pots, blowing whistles, and in 2000 we came to a law that was significantly better than the one that preceded him, or those who preceded him. The October 2000 law was passed by consensus of all parties in parliament and the law created such conditions for regular or at least approximately regular elections. There is no obstacle to another presidential election under this law, which is probably inevitable, because the Constitution and the law oblige us to do so. In addition, according to the law, DOS came to power and here is the Democratic Party of Serbia, with other parties that will make up, I guess, the government in this country also came to power under the law. For two days now, the representatives of the promoters have heard indeed ominous remarks that representatives, MPs of the SRS, do not accept the days of the elections that are being debated in Serbia by our citizens living abroad, that those who are in prisons can vote, those who cannot because of the disease to come to the polls, soldiers, etc. All of this is absolutely not true. The SRS has no objection to that, but we insist that regulatory conditions be created for such a vote. What you have predicted in this quasi-law does not create an opportunity for regular and democratic elections. I guess the goal of all of us is to create conditions for any future elections in Serbia to be regular, to be democratic, for the power elected in the elections to be truly chosen by the will of citizens that no one will abuse. What you have predicted and how it opens up the possibility of abuse and of machinations in some future parliamentary or presidential elections. You know, and we know better than you, as we went through in the elections, since there have been more parties in Serbia, which took place in Serbia; we have been stolen from election victories. It was all due to poor electoral laws and the inability of multilateral control in polling stations. And you, like us, thought that the law had to change, that it couldn't be trusted by the ruling majority not to abuse the law. We don't believe even now, gentlemen, the ruling majority, even though your pre-election slogan was "the word is the word". We really don't believe your word because in these two months and not a full month of this House you have broken the word so many times that we really have no reason to believe that you will conduct some regular elections under the law that does not predict the regularity of these elections. Elections cannot be held and cannot be held where there are no representatives of all parties, all participants in these elections. Yesterday, in fact, the other day, on the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr. Ristivojevic, who is here as the chairman of the committee, said that he is aware that the elections cannot be regulated, that there will probably not be any next elections, but some there, perhaps the third in a row will be regular, because in the meantime we will fix the electoral lists here, and the electoral lists abroad and change the law, etc. That's how you gentlemen don't run a serious state. Then I expect... I see Mr. Ristivojevic is already reporting for the replica, of course, I don't mind, I don't mind. Mr. Ristivoevich, you said yesterday that if someone doesn't understand something from what you suggested, that we might as well ask, you would explain it to us. We, Mr. Ristivojevic, are not your students, you have nothing to explain to us, you can go out with your credentials, and you don't have to explain anything to us, we understand perfectly what you wrote, and even more clearly what your intention is not written here, and which we Serbian radicals are reading perfectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u639	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u640	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will only react briefly because such a speech does not deserve a longer reaction. So, one, it's not true and it's a clean lie that I said the elections would be irregular, not on the Justice and Administration Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor on this speaker. I said the election won't be ideal, after one of your MPs' reactions that the election won't be ideal. Yes, it's not going to be ideal. It is very likely that this country will have major problems to list all voters who are abroad and that, based on that census, the voter records that are abroad, make special lists of voters; then, there will probably be problems with the countries in which these voters are located. It may be contrary to the idea that we organise the elections, in which case we will be able to organise them only in our diplomatic and consular representations. And why is that? Because these diplomatic and consular representations are exterior in relation to the territory of the state, and perhaps, thanks to the opposition of a country, we will have elections in one place and not in several places in that country and so on. In this light from this pay phone and on the Justice Committee, I said that the elections we are going to organise abroad -- and not us as a party, Mrs. Verice, the state is organising elections, the RIK is in charge, and the DSS will not organise any elections, nor have it organised before -- this state, or RIK, which will organise them, will have some problems. So, please don't take this nonsense out of the pay phone anymore and put it in my mouth and put it in my mouth that I didn't say, especially that I said that elections would be irregular. That's bullshit. Thank you and good-bye.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u641	On what basis, no party is mentioned, but only by the Rules of Procedure if you have something. On the grounds of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u642	Mr. President, thank you for giving me your word. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. National MP from the Democratic Party list – Boris Tadic, Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, insulted me when she said I spoke hate language; I did not speak any language of hatred, Mrs. Snezana, I spoke facts. First, that the SPS supports the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, that is a fact. In addition, I cited the facts written in all the newspapers, which is that the Vojvodina Assembly made a coat of arms, a decision to form the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, despite the suggestion of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts that it should not do so despite opposition from members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts from Vojvodina. Is the fact that the 27th of this, meaning three days from now, is being held by the Vojvodina Assembly, where some flag of the Vojvodina and the solemn song, or an anthem, should be brought? Is the fact that the Vojvodina Assembly will be held in March to discuss the proposal for a basic law, or the Constitution of the Vojvodina! That's the facts. You can't say the fact that you're speaking hate language and it's more than enough that anyone can declare when someone says something that they don't like is hate language. It's not a language problem, it's a problem in the ears that only hear what they want and what they don't have. Don't talk anymore about the fact that he speaks hate language.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u643	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I didn't say that these facts, if that's what you can call them, are hate speech. The hate speech was drawn up in sentences relating to the fact that certain regional parties, which you cited as facts from Vojvodina, and the party of the national minority secessionist, are seeking international intervention or internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue. It's something I don't allow at this point to be spoken of in this way for a congregation speaker. I'm asking you to take your word for it, if you'd like to rephrase it for me, because I'm not comfortable with having a personal discussion with you while you're sitting in a messenger's bench. (He speaks to MP Branislav Ristivojevic). Is the theme of this assembly the fact that the Vojvodina Assembly adopted the coat of arms? I don't see it. The coat of arms has been adopted by most MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, which is its legitimate and legal right in relation to the powers it has. Did the agenda of the Vojvodina Assembly, which was scheduled, put up as one of the points of the agenda the adoption of the song, i.e. the flag of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina; I still haven't received the agenda and I don't know if it's true, although I am a member of the Vojvodina Executive Council. But, if that's true, there's no violation of the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina Assembly, so I think that's how you've been telling the truth about this speaker. The SPS has two MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, who can vote as they set out in relation to the agenda to be placed at the Vojvodina Assembly. Indeed, I don't think it's polite to replicate here right now and talk about topics where there's no one in an adequate way to rephrase you, but I really think there are few people on the political scene who would like to be with you in this way to lead the replica, because everyone remembers the 1989 and 1990 revolution very well, what Vojvodina afterwards experienced and survived.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u645	Now, gentlemen, let's agree on the following, as you abuse the Constitutional Court's decision, you report to the Rules of Procedure without citing the basis, not a member, I would really warn you that I will apply the powers of the Rules of Procedure, which the chairman and the President of the Assembly have and say, without prior warning, a warning to the MP who violates the Rules of Procedure in this way. The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Replica? You have no right, it is mentioned in the presentation of your colleague, Mrs Radeta, by her name and name, Mrs Radeta has the right to reply, if she wishes, please. Mrs. Radeta has the right to reply, you don't, because the party isn't mentioned. According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u646	Unlike the others you haven't asked, I'll tell you which member of the Rules of Procedure. That's Article 100(1), and you can take any matter of taking care of the order at the session. In fact, Mr Ristivojević insulted the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u647	Article 100 says, "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Is that the basis of the call?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u648	Of course, Mr Ristivojevic did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, insulting Verice Radet, insulting all those who represent the same opinion, speaking for everything she said from this pay phone that they were nonsense, nonsense and another expression you used, Mr Ristivojevic, and it is not like a gentleman, even if they spoke to political opponents. Don't like it, first of all, because it's not true. One thing Mrs. Radeta warned you about, and that's a very serious thing. I already told you she's one of the best lawyers, not just in this assembly, and you don't have to wave your hands, you can just go out for a pay phone and say what you think. By waving your hands, you'll hardly achieve anything. The point is, the next...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u649	Please don't get into the essence. It's a replica. You objected to the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u650	I'll finish, Mr. Martian. Don't show any kind of anxiety.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u651	No, there's no anxiety, there's only respect for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u652	You listened to the others, who didn't even call the Rules of Procedure, and they talked about everything else. Election conditions must be known in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u653	Mr. Wolfie, I asked you not to leave...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u654	No, I'm waiting for Mr. Martian to stick his hand in my pocket and get me those three thousand dinars. Come on, do it already, and you don't have to warn me any further. So election conditions must be known in advance, not that you determine them and say that they will be ideal...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u655	Mr. Wolfie, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u656	I've been waiting for you to take 3,000 dinars from me, Mr. Martian. I love what you've done most. So the election game has to be famous from the beginning, election conditions, so that all people agree to these conditions and that all people know how and how they will participate. Whatever you do, Mr. Martian, and 3,000, for which you have put your hand back in the pocket of Serbian radicals, will not help you, and we will surely defeat you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u657	We've got a first call on the Rules of Procedure. By the way, according to your proposal, the Constitutional Court has issued this provision, which you have just called upon as something you object to. Sir, what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u658	Article 94.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u659	Article 94 is about the interruption of the session, about the lack of quorum. You have no right or you will respect the Assembly. However, some tolerance limits exist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u660	Since Mr. Pitiæ took advantage of the opportunity when I came out, I'm going to ask him something, to answer me. (Speaks Hungarian language: colleague Pytić, it's not right to talk about me when I wasn't in the O.R. You took the opportunity to run for this pay phone when I wasn't here. I didn't understand what you were trying to tell me, though. I purposely addressed the Hungarian language to deny the stories of "the hate speech". Do you understand what I'm saying? You don't understand. I spoke to you in Hungarian. Therefore, we from Vojvodina grew up in a multinational environment and I know Hungarian. I don't know if you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u661	I ask you not to replicate, but only to object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u662	I said there were two dioceses in the Tempisvar. If you read the book of Michael Pupin "From Field to Scientists", he described it to detail. It's a historical truth. Second of all, you're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u663	I warn you once again that I will give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u664	We cannot speak in hate speech by those of us who know the Hungarian language and who grew up with the Hungarians. I was telling historical facts, and one is that there are five Serbian churches in St. Andrea, and there are no Serbs there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u665	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u666	(Special in Hungarian): Dear Mr. Smiljanic, I am from Sainta, so I speak Hungarian correctly and correctly. I learned Hungarian in elementary and high school. Your problem is next, which is the difference between the diocese and the parish. So it is true that there were two parishes of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Temisvar and never two dioceses. The book of Michael Pupin is called "From Pasture to Scientists".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u667	The word has been given by MP Dusan Prorokovic, followed by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u668	I will speak in native Serbian, I will not speak in minority languages, and I will return to the topic on the agenda, and the subject is to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs. The two groups are the amendments and additions to this legislative proposal, proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia. The first group are, conditionally speaking, but extremely conditionalally speaking, technical changes and additions to the Law, and the second group are essential changes and additions to the Law. Technically, because it will not essentially affect changes in our electoral legislation. We think that it will be qualified to fix it, we think that elections will take place in a more efficient and European way, but we've been more appropriate to these other groups of changes and additions to specify some fundamental changes. As for technical changes and additions, they reintroduce to our electoral legislation and particularly treat the ability to vote with prevented and powerless persons, persons with certain rates of disability and persons who are on the basis of government and prison sentences. Also, it concerns certain issues related to the voter lists, which we talked about much more this morning and yesterday. I do not believe that the legislator, or previous congregation majority, who adopted this and such a bill, deliberately left out these amendments and additions that we are proposing. I think it happened by accident, but these coincidences, especially in the 2002 presidential elections, have caused many abuses. We have also been thinking about some qualitative details that could improve our electoral legislation: However, unfortunately, it should be acknowledged that Serbia and Serbia's election practices today are not ready for such a thing. Here I think of a vote via the Internet, e-mail, a letter vote, or a letter vote or a phone vote. This exists in some developed democracies, in the countries of Western Europe. Unfortunately, we felt that the introduction of such a voting procedure could produce numerous abuses in our country. Serbia, unfortunately, is not yet mature for such a thing. We hope it will be soon, and in the interest of the Democratic Party of Serbia, as long as it has the majority, i.e. to provide the majority of support for the government, that any subsequent elections be organised correctly, in agreement with other parties, that no single abuse or counterfeiting will be recorded in any subsequent election, and the first to follow are presidential elections. Normally, by writing laws, or amendments to this law, we've made some minor failures. That is why we will accept certain amendments by the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you for showing us that. In the interest of both us and them, as well as all other parliamentary parties, it is for the elections to pass the most regular possible, each next, because it is a proof of the maturity of democratic society. As for the second group of amendments and additions to the Law, which I have qualified as essential, two are which our electoral legislation will first be covered: firstly, to allow the vote of our citizens living abroad; and secondly, the introduction of so-called the principle of a positive threshold for national minority parties. The DSS, along with other parliamentary parties who support our proposals, calls on the diaspora, because this law will allow them to vote in the first subsequent elections, which are elections for the president of the Republic, and thus affect the formation of institutions in Serbia; that they have a political impact on the formation of institutions in Serbia. Normally, many organisational problems will open up, and we are aware of that. For the first time, our country met with this practice and in all countries where the right to vote was given to diaspora there were certain organisational and technical problems. It is important that in the first upcoming elections, when we adopt this law, voting places are open in all diplomatic and consular representations, to include all interested parties, all parties on the team or presidential candidates who take part in these elections. It's important to us that these elections go properly. We did not foresee this law because it is foreseen by other acts to, for example, open the polling post in California or Stuttgart, where thousands of Serbs live, and our country does not have a diplomatic-consular representation. This is being resolved by interstate contracts, it is being settled by agreement between the parties in the election process and we will not be able to pass any stakeholders in the process. If we agree with other parties, we will open polling stations wherever possible and thus include as many of our diaspora people as possible to participate in the decision-making process. As far as political justification is concerned, making such a decision is politically justified. This is the first step, and there will be many more, in strengthening the links between the diaspora, or our dispersion and the queen. With this move, we want to include the diaspora in the decision-making process in Serbia and we think that in the next steps we will talk not only about the right to vote and how to conduct the vote abroad, but also about their more active involvement in our economic life, in stronger cultural, educational integration. And this is also our first step in showing the commitment that, as real advocates of implementation of the Dayton Agreement, we use everything that the Dayton Agreement allows us, along with other procedural issues that we will address in the coming period; to allow all those in Republika Srpska who are interested in voting and have our citizenship to participate in the elections in Serbia. The DSS wants Serbia's vote. We are not ashamed to say it, we are not afraid to do it, in the same way that it is made possible for Croats in Herceg-Bosnia, will be made possible for Serbs in Republika Srpska. The other thing that essentially changes the law so far is the introduction of the principles so-called. the natural threshold for national minority parties. The most banal presented would mean that the censorship is almost tripled by the parties of the national minorities. We have resorted to such a solution not only because it is one of the recommendations of the Council of Europe, but because of the obligation for minorities to be necessarily presented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I say necessarily, because it has happened by the rule so far, it's not always, and now we don't have representatives of some national minorities, unfortunately, in parliament. It is important because the majority, and in this country the majority of the Serbian people, must give their hand to the minority, must include all representatives of minority parties in the system's institutions, to solve problems in systems, to talk about them, not to solve our interethnic disagreements through sights and trenches, which has so far been the case in our premises. I would like today in this house to have a representative of Mr. Riza Halimi, a representative of Albanians from southern Serbia, to raise the question of the pervasive security situation in the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, to agree on how to treat these malignancies, how to sanction certain wishes for a constitutional order in this country. Don't just make most decisions about it, don't let all the responsibility fall on us. Let us share responsibility on all these issues with representatives of minority parties, just as Serbs in some other countries, using these rights, using the right to positive discrimination, solve problems with the majority. As Serbs in Croatia solve their problems through the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, as Serbs in Macedonia solve their problems through the institutions of the Republic of Macedonia, as Serbs in Romania solve their problems through the institutions of the Republic of Romania. If someone doesn't want to, then let them come out here and tell the truth - we want minorities, despite all the circumstances in which we live, to integrate into the big parties; but then be honest and tell the Serbs from Croatia to join the HDZ, let the Serbs from Macedonia join the VMRO, and let them ask through the majority parties to exercise their rights. No, the DSS has called on Serbs from Croatia to be politically institutionalised due to all the circumstances that have been happening in these areas, gathering around the stand-alone Serbian Democratic Party. We urged the Macedonian Serbs to institutionalise politically, gathering around the Democratic Party of Serbs in Macedonia. We invited them to use their right, to enter parliament and solve all their problems in the institutions of the system in principle of positive discrimination. We also call on all minorities to go to the next elections, to take advantage of their right to positive discrimination, to take their seats in the National Assembly, and to start solving all problems together. The DSS wants to offer our fellow citizens of other nationalities and our compatriots living in a dissipation to participate in Serbia's political life and together with us, the majority people, Serbs, to accelerate further regional and continental integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u669	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u670	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the DSS as the next leading party in the coalition, not as you may be called, or as some political opponents have called you, but 3K, as the people call you. The three-way coalition, collected from stakes and ropes, began some risky legislative projects, not knowing on its own what the outcome of the vote would be in the Assembly until the moment the law entered the procedure. This was the case with the Law on Complementary and Amendment to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. I will remind you that Vojislav Kostunica and the other DSS leaders, as far as 10 days ago, were convinced that this week Dragan Marsican will call early parliamentary elections and better-than-better have run to treat this very important political issue, which does not concern so many citizens of Serbia essentially for their economic and social improvement, but certainly for improving democratic processes. It's exactly a year since the Serbian greatest hero and SRS president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, was imprisoned in the anti-Serbian Hague casamat. He will be there to fight for his rights, to defend his interest, the interests of his people, we are confident, but that you have learned something from ladies and gentlemen, and you who have not been in the parliamentary benches and you who have been activists of various parties who have become parliamentary today, you have been able for 13 years of multilaterals from both him and the Serbian radicals to learn how democratic processes develop in one society. No matter how much we dispute that we are Democrats, it has proved that we are the only ones who cultivate true traditions and democratic movements in this House to protect us from this kind of behavior, such as the former Mr. Marsican, when he gave the fine to Alexander Vukic. You could have been a professor. To learn that political actors, who currently have the opportunity to rule in the country, cannot create democratic processes themselves. That is what we must do through the face-to-face of opinions, political parties fighting for the realisation of their programme objectives. Our permanent goal was - from the beginning, from the moment we had one MP, and this was Professor Seselj in 1991, and today, we will be the strongest political party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - to pass a law on the selection of MPs that would be acceptable to the general consensus and which would be clearly applicable. This is how the DSS only puts us before a legal proposal at the beginning of its infamous rule in the "3K coalition" that cannot literally be implemented, for a simple reason, as the promoters themselves have said, because it contains certain provisions that are impossible to implement strictly until the end. As for our citizens abroad, which you call a diaspora, although these are the only citizens of Serbia-Montenegro living abroad, and there are several hundred thousand of them, which should be given the right to vote, you have tried, during several days of your unconstructive debate and persuasion, the DSS gentlemen, to point out how these are supposed to be your potential voters. That's not true. You who boast about education in jobs, using computer equipment, have my suggestion to visit the site "Serbian Diaspora" and to see how things are. The convincingly most popular president of a political party from Serbia's political space, among our citizens abroad, is Professor Vojislav Seselj, Serbia's most popular political party, the Serbian Radical Party. Do you know the difference between your Kostunica and Seselj or Tomislav Nikolic? Two or two-and-a-half times fewer votes have your Vojislav Kostunica in his public statement. Therefore, you do not have to worry about them at all, and when you are already making such a declaration, and especially you, Mr Ristivojevic, as some kind of legal expert and boast that you participated in the projection of this law, you must explain to us how the future first officer Dragan Jocic will do so within a month, from the day of adoption of the law, to ensure that all of these persons carry out the list, i.e. to apply and to have voting rights. On the other hand, this member who treats the issue of national minorities is, at the very least, sad, and if he wasn't sad, he'd be funny. Through our behaviour so far, no matter how much you dispute with the media that gave you full support, the SRS has been advocating respect for the rights of national minorities and our proposal and amendment to make the general censorship 3% fairest for such a state and for the mixed structure of the population that we have in the country. You cannot convince me that the Republic Election Commission, and it can hypothetically declare a certain Branislav Kovacevic of Kragujevac, the leader of a coalition for the Shumadi, who was first on the list of this coalition for tolerance, which did not pass the censorship, to be an authentic representative of the national minorities. Not possible, Branislav Kovacevic, who won 257 votes in the election unit with 230,000 voters. You're ready and you're ready to do that, aware of the fact that your rating is down, all the masks are down. We understand what Kostunica is, what you are, what your coalition partners are, who are present and future. You understand, regardless of what we know that all these voters on the entire globe, who are citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, will not have equal rights, regardless, and wherever you selectively open consular representations, the SRS will vote those people in these polling stations to beat you to the punch.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u671	First, my replica. I've been mentioned twice by name. Then, Mr. Ristivojevic. It was said here that the law was passed because the election was planned. So again, representatives of the SRS count briefly on memory. One who has a little longer memory or, at least consciously forgets, will remember that the same proposal was submitted a year ago, so unfortunately he did not get a majority in this congregation. I hope that this item, listed here as necessary to amend the existing law, will be understood and accepted. Mrs. Jovanovic, you called the catastforal bill amending the law that allows disabled people to vote, which allows the diaspora to vote and which allows minority party representatives to be represented in this parliament. I don't mind if you call the changes that lead to this a catastrophic proposal. But again, whoever has a little longer memory will remember, so let's start from that, because you mentioned the victory of Dr. Vojislav Seselj on Rakovica in 1992. This is the time, which has a little longer memory, which will be remembered for your party's creation of the Ministry of State Security Jovica Stanisic and since then, your journey has indeed been a long and impressive one. (Predrag Markovic: Please, no throwing.) [[overlapping from the O.R.: Warning.]] Ms. Jovanovic called about the Rules of Procedure. ) It's not an insult, it's just a statement of historical facts. Mr. Prof. Vojislav Seselj won the D.S. Academyman Pekic Cancer. It's something that brings out people who have a little longer memories. Also, who has a longer memory, will be able to call the laws that have reversed Serbia for a hundred years more disastrously, in a period as you and your partners from what is called "the past regime" have exercised power in Serbia. Whoever has a longer memory, as much as you didn't like it, will remember that in that period, Serbia has gone back economically, that Serbia has squandered all national and state interests, and that these mistakes and the consequences today are even impossible to make up for. It's for those who have a little longer memories, and at least you remember that last year, the same bill, as today's agenda, was proposed by the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u673	On the occasion of the application of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have much less years than Mr. Martian, but a much greater mind. My mind is as great as the power of the SRS, my strength is as great as the power of the SRS, and it, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is currently measuring with 30% popularity in the electoral body in Serbia. Is that small? No, of course not. As for Professor Vojislav Seselj, I told you, and it is sad and devastating for all Serbian patriots and patriots, that today is exactly one year since he was imprisoned in the anti-Serbian UN tribunal. (President: Will you tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure by whom you have called?) ) Mr. Marsican, you had to be replaced and replaced by Natasa Micic, but until she replaced you, you had to learn a member of the Rules of Procedure and, you know, when you're already presenting lies and insults, that it falls under Article 100. Rules of Procedure. As far as your status and questions are concerned, how long will you be in the position of the chairman, that is something likely to be dealt with by the parliamentary majority. Had it been luck and had there been respect for the will of the people and the principles of parliamentary democracy, you would not have been able to make a return where you are and you could never again, as you were infamously removed from that place, to take the presidency post again. But when it comes to the honorary name of Dr. Seselj, our president, and his triumphal victories and entry into the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the additional elections in Rakovica, and all these unsuspecting accusations and lies he has made for this speaker - imagine, President of the Assembly of 2004 Dragan Maršićan speaking such nonsense - and not only that they are poor and sad, but because of your policy, because of such behaviour between you and your president - who does not know when the day is and when the night is, whether it is at the Cologne concert or at Milosevic in The Hague, what will happen to Serbian heroes, whether they will be extradited or not - that is why you are so failed and you will return to the period of 1992, at three or four percent, and so much is your place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u675	I'm not familiar with the reasons for your anxiety, I'm merely stating the facts about the origin of your party. Here you go, Mr. Ristivoevich. It's history.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u676	Dear People's MPs, just for a moment to replicate to the distinguished Ms. Jovanovic about three things. First of all, you called me a legal expert on this pay phone. I never claimed it for myself, nor would any man who held on to himself say such a thing to himself; someone else would say that about him, and I take your opinion as a compliment. Thank you very much. It's nice to have a nice opinion of me. Another thing, as a proposing representative of this law, I have never said for this speaker that any voter abroad is "our". I guess that means it belongs to the DSS and stuff. My opinion is that no voter belongs to anyone. Every voter is a man of integrity, who belongs to himself, and he is practically our constituent, our citizen, nothing else. It doesn't matter if they vote for what game. Is he even going to vote? It doesn't matter, or I've ever qualified anyone here as our own or someone else's voter. Third thing, I don't think you've read the bill carefully. It does not deal with the MP records of these voters abroad, means neither the future interior minister, whoever it is. This deals with the ministry responsible for the affairs of justice and municipal administrations as a trusted job, they do electoral lists. So voter records - they will be dealt with by the Ministry of Justice as regards electoral lists and the Ministry of Justice, i.e. municipal administration as a trusted job. The foreign ministry will be only a service, when a foreign voter, or citizen, reports to be a voter, his data, for example, will be forwarded to the ministry of justice and will be signed in. When the voter's record is exposed to a diplomatic-consular representation and when the deadline for its presentation expires, it will return to the state and the justice ministry will conclude and make an election list based on it. So the Home Office has nothing to do with the voter lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u677	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. (Glasses - by which member. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u678	Article 99(3), which speaks precisely of that throw. So during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. So, I didn't look back on your throw, sir, and I didn't say a note, very simply, because there was no reason for that. The speaker praised the State Security Service for its efficiency; he praised the service of this state. He carried out examples of the efficiency of the service, according to his data. Whenever the authorities of the Serbian state are praised, of course I will not give the warning, but will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u679	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov came forward, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u680	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of the extensive discussions and distance from the topic, it is my pleasure to conclude that the new assembly's assembly has continued its work in order to correct irregularities that occurred in the previous session, as well as the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, with all political parties pleading that they should have been implemented and amended before the last parliamentary elections were called. G17 plus advocates a new constitution as soon as possible. The new constitution should provide a better basis for regulation of many issues, as well as questions of the Law on the selection of MPs. Despite the aspirations of G17 plus, the time of adoption of the new constitution is uncertain, and therefore we feel it is necessary to regulate some of the minimums that the previous assembly has simply not processed. We consider the draft law given by the DSS better than the existing law because it abolishes 5% censorship for national minority parties. A state that has such a national structure as ours must be represented by representatives of national minorities in parliament, and not only speak from the aspect of national minorities, I come from a multinational environment, from Subotica, and believe me, it is a great advantage in Subotica and the environment that we live in such a environment. I think this advantage should be used at all levels. It is also very important in this proposal to address the problems of disabled people, who are unable to go to the polls. In the modern world, there has long been a trend for disabled people to have to create all the conditions for functioning in society, but with us it is quite bad and slightly represented, which gives this bill great importance. We also believe that a very important amendment that provides for a minimum of 30% of the less represented gender in parliament. Political parties must, in a democratic spirit, pay particular attention to the representation of national minorities and the less represented gender in the country's political life. G17 plus showed it. We are the only party in parliament that has respected a minimum of 30% of the less represented gender on our list for this parliament. We believe that the ideal relationship is 50-50, as is said in Sweden, although by statistics in Serbia we have more women than men. In any case, we don't want men to be in the role of a less represented sex and fight for their 30%. In a cultural sense, it would be too much of a transition for them. However, regardless of this, given the real political situation in the country, we in G17 plus believe it is necessary and legal to protect both members of the national minorities and members of the less represented gender in terms of real opportunities for participation in Serbia's political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u681	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic (six minutes) has the word, and let the Messenger Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u682	It is obvious that Serbian citizens should be explained what this is about. There's a big media and mental manipulation at work. And there, of course, they use every means possible. One of these funds is to count international documents, and those who state the names of these documents in no sentence say what they say in those documents and whether they can find a foothold in those documents for this intervention or a failed attempt. Of course, all the other parliamentary groups have accepted this game, because they are aware of these manipulations, and some say they support the bill, and some say, if you adopt our amendments and we will accept that bill. In essence, 99% of the MPs are against this law. Yes, that is true, 99% of MPs are against this law, even those who participated in writing the bill, some have fled because they simply consider this a bad proposal. The proposal is based on the following postulates: firstly, that someone who has promised to jump 10 metres up, the promise has to be fulfilled, so he has installed 4, 5, 6 provisions and is called on that in the existing law it is not regulated or, if it is regulated, that it is not in accordance with the law. It's the first replacement of the thesis and, of course, it's a big lie. The existing bill has completely resolved the situation. The Constitutional Court has not declared it unconstitutional, and nothing prohibits that law, because the law regulates what it can under the Constitution, which is a way of exercising citizens' right to choose and be elected. We've tried a little bit to fix that proposal, so we're going to point out the mental disadvantages and ignorance of the foundation of this state's political and legal system. But about that one. What we need to be concerned about is that the legislator did not want to intervene in that section of the single electoral list. He did not want to intervene because he still remembers stealing a CD from the electoral commission and manifesting his dissatisfaction that in the second round, RIK did not declare there was no single voter list. Of course, they didn't mind in the first election round. The other manipulation that is being conducted here is that, past the Constitution and past all known declarations, conventions that regulate certain questions, pushes something that is completely unsustainable, profoundly contrary to the Constitution. What's the opposite of the Constitution is that it's a real division of the citizens of the first and second order. We haven't had that division yet. Why? As much as someone objected to the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia, it is a civil society. We all enjoy political equality. There's no discrimination. No one can find discrimination in this country, only those who feel that such a bill should be filed, that a political elite of national minorities is formed, I apologize for using one name, and then members of a national minority feel threatened if Casa did not buy another hectare for his daughter. That's when the rights of national minorities were at stake. Who can say that only Kasa and Rasim Ljajic are representatives of some national minorities? Who gave them that exclusive right? I must remind the promoter, in the existing Law on the Selection of People's MPs as submissions of the electoral list, parties appear individually, coalitions, groups of citizens, and now you are introducing the term – the electoral list of national minorities. The constitution does not allow such a formulation and such division, because in this way and by removing censorship only for a particular group of people, I ask the question – what about the electoral list of the group of citizens, what are they unequal? How come someone more and someone less? We are civil society, we have achieved some democratic standards and whoever fears national minorities will vote for the SRS is rightly afraid. After this law, even more members of the national minorities will vote for the SRS because they feel this division and do not want to be identified with Rasim Ljajic, Kasa and those who lost in the elections. They lost because they misdetermined themselves. Who is he who can love Rasim Ljajic more than Neboja Covic. If anyone respects the electoral will of citizens, you have representatives of the national minorities that the people voted for, so you make a coalition with them. You will now retain Rasim, even Nebojsa Covic, who has not won three percent of the votes That's what the election says. [[Louds from the bench: Who says that?]] The election says it didn't go through, but you want to suck it in. Since this is a law that does not solve anything, because the DSS has never managed to solve a problem, I am simply surprised that you have not submitted a proposal to vote against the government of Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u683	Here you go, replica. In the meantime, just to let Mr. Peric know, unfortunately, there's no more time. He spent more than six minutes on a previous speaker. Let Mr Milos Jevtic prepare himself. Replica, Mr. Aligrudić, and the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u684	I have the right to the replica for the simple reason that part of Mr Krasic's discussion referred to my discussion, because I am the only MP who mentioned some international document in his speech. When I mentioned the international document in my speech, I did not manipulate it, but tried, citing certain international documents that speak of the rights of national minorities, to point to Article 16. The constitutional charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which says that ratified international agreements have accepted rules, that they have primate over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the law of the Member States. There was no manipulation. What is being said here is the ultimate untruth that there is no constitutional basis for determining positive discrimination. I have stated that this constitutional basis is part of the Constitutional Package, i.e. in the Minor Charter, which stems from the Constitutional Charter. Therefore, it is a constitutional basis for the positive discrimination introduced by this law. That's what I'm talking about. It's not about any manipulation. And to you, if you are not attached to the Constitutional Charter and to the Small Charter, as a package of federal constitutional regulations, you think that it does not matter and that it is irrelevant to the Member States, then it is your attitude towards the state community as well. I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u685	There's no replica on the line, Mr. Krassic. Here you go, Mr. Ristivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u686	As a representative of the promoter, only one sentence of what Mr Krasic said. I know Mr. Krasic said that by accident. You have mixed up, Mr Krasic, Mr Omeragic's amendment, which mentions the electoral lists of national minorities' parties, and our bill does not mention that category at all, nor does it know. The only category we know is the political party of national minorities, only in this we intervene in our bill of law. There are no "election lists of national minorities" and that is simply not true. I know it's just a mistake. You confused Mr. Omeragic's amendment with our bill of law. It happens, there's a lot of traffic, there's a lot of work, in the heat of speech, you said that kind of thing. By the way, I have to admit, your criticism was one of the few constructive ones heard of this pay phone and congratulations. I wish everyone was like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u687	Thank you. Now you have the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u688	I have to quote the gentleman who came out first. I was talking about the international documents that one other MP mentioned, and he presented in the replica the Constitutional Charter... (President: Don't, please, respond to the applicant's presentation. )......................................................................................................... as an international document. Unfortunately, it's not international documents. And as for this other intervention, if I hadn't figured something out, you didn't seem to understand things. None of our regulations, nor our international document, allow any discrimination. When it comes to some particularities that belong to members of national minorities, this topic today is not on the agenda, but if we talk about the Constitution and all international documents guaranteed freedom of political organisation and action, then there is no room to divide into political parties minorities, to some other political parties, because that right is enjoyed by a citizen as an individual. It's an individual right. You have to take care of that, because this is how you divide citizens, form the political elite of national minorities, with which you can trade in your own way, self-recognizable ways, and they are prone to these shops, for a hectare of property, you know, at Casa, some have kept it. And as for this piece of the diaspora promise, it will not be that voter like Kosovo and Metohija used to be. I must warn you... (President: I warn the messengers not to disturb you. )......................................................................................................... That you've caught yourself a dead end. We, with amendments, are likely to pass this law. But, look, from this pay phone, we've also warned some previous government not to do anything out of similar initiatives, not to be handled by hate, not to be handled by other interests and impulses that have no cover in the Constitution and common sense, and that power is gone. You've come a long way, and that's not good. It's not good, because this law is passed by consensus of all political parties. You rushed because you promised. What do we do about what you promised? You have unreally promised, and you will see about the amendment when we report on what this unrealisticity is, how much there is no concern for voters and how much of your proposal you force inequality between citizens, which is forbidden. Radicals must guard the republic here from the Democratic Party of Serbia, people, remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u689	The People's MP Milos Jevtic has the word, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u690	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party, that is, its parliamentary club will support this bill, primarily for reasons of civilizational nature. We believe that the bill is quite incomplete and that there are many shortcomings. We hope, frankly, that some of them will be amended, but on the other hand, we are also in the view that minority parties, or national minorities, must certainly be represented in parliament, that we are now facing the fact that they are not in parliament and that this is why the Democratic Party supports this law. We also believe that none of the parliamentary parties that received confidence in the December elections have the right to monopolise the issue of diaspora, or the issue of national minorities' parties. The Democratic Party believes that the diaspora should first and foremost come closer to the queen, not further away from the queen. One way to do that is, of course, an electoral law that will allow the representatives of the diaspora to vote, but on the other hand, there are a number of other issues that must also be resolved. In the last 10 years, that is, in the last decade, more than 500,000 young highly educated people have left our country, I believe it is a major human resource and that it should certainly be possible in a certain way to transfer knowledge. As for the problem of serving the military deadline that is also present, I believe that this should also be resolved by a law that will allow the civil service of the military term in diplomatic and consular representations. So these are all issues that must be treated in the next period. Of course, the electoral law is one of them. As far as this election law is concerned, its intensity is certainly good, it allows the representatives of the diaspora to vote, but I believe that the bill is such that it is technically difficult to implement. I'll give you a few reasons why I think so. First of all, there must be a clear distinction or distinction between those voters who have only a residence abroad, i.e. a reserved previval site in our country; there are even such cases where parents have not kept their home in our country. The best example, which one of my predecessors has already cited, is Chicago or Illinois State, where some data say there are between 250,000 and 400,000 of our citizens. However, many of them are actually the third generation that is much more involved in the US elections, and they care much more about who will be governor of the state of Illinois than who will be president of Serbia. So their ability to vote in Serbia's elections and participate in the elections of our organs is highly discriminatory. As for the other citizens who have reserved residence in Serbia, they should certainly be allowed to vote. One of the proposals in this law is for this vote to take place in our network of diplomatic and consular representations and in the so-called special polling stations. As for our network currently owned, Serbia-Montenegro has 60 amassads in the world and 25 consulates in exactly 14 countries. So there are a lot of cases of concentration of economic immigration where we don't have consulates. The examples are certainly Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Hungary. Even in those countries where we have consulates, and the best example is Germany, where we have five consulates -- in Munich, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Dusseldorf and Hamburg -- about 740,000 of our citizens live in Germany, and just about every consulate comes between 150,000 and 160,000 of our citizens. I think, with all the data we have from our elections, where the average per capita per 1,000 citizens per day, if we consider that the 50-55% response, we would need about 55 polling stations so that all of them can vote. On the other hand, some DSS MPs have been talking about how it can be regulated by bilateral agreements with certain countries. We have such a case with 14 countries and the question is what happens if one of these countries doesn't want to conclude a bilateral agreement with us, so, in principle, reciprocity. In this case, we would significantly violate the principle of achieving equality, i.e. the exercise of electoral rights. That's one of the reasons why the application of this law is quite problematic. So, if we consider that these are special polling stations, located outside diplomatic and consular representations, not taking into account the theory of externality, which is rather discriminatory at the moment, I think it would really violate the sovereignty, or sovereignty of the state of reception. As regards the second part of this law, which treats the parties of national minorities, I would first of all refer to Article 12(3), which actually introduces arbitration in the decision-making of the RIK, which is a party of national minorities, i.e. which is a list representing or having the position of the party of national minorities or a coalition of the parties of national minorities. I believe that it is very dangerous for any arbitration in this business and procedure without any decision-making criteria and can lead us to a very dangerous position, above all it could endanger our country's international position. It quite strangely coincides with the process of forming this government, which is quite long-term, which certainly implies the support of the list of SPS – Slobodan Milosevic, which has been stopped at this moment by making a feasibility study for our country. That is why we are truly characteristic, because no country in the region is outside the process, including Albania. I believe that the representatives of the parties that are going to make the government must take care of our country's international law and position, precisely because some of these parties have members in the delegation at the Council of Europe and that this bill significantly endangers our position as a full member within the Council of Europe. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Boris Tadic, for this very reason, has tabled an amendment that in some way abolishs this arbitration decision regarding the parties of national minorities or their coalitions and enables RIK to declare a list based on its insight into the statute, programme or coalition agreement. At the very end, I end up with DS backing this bill anyway, with another observation that there are a lot of imperfections, a lot of disadvantages. We hope some of them will be amended. So certainly minorities must be represented in this parliament, without censorship, and that is the strongest reason why DS supports this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u691	Mr. Ristivojevic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u692	Dear colleagues, just a few things about this previous exposure. As for the criteria for determining which party is a political party minority and subsequently, its ability to use a 5% electoral procedure, we have given that criterion in Article 12 of our proposal. The political parties of national minorities are those whose primary objective is to represent and represent the interests of national minorities, protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, in accordance with international legal standards. RIK will not arbitrarily decide which party this is or isn't, but rather decide first at the request of the party. So any party who wants to use this right alone will demand it from the RIK and, by nature of things, will submit evidence to its thesis. It is certain that it will primarily be a party programme, perhaps a statute or other act, perhaps some other evidence of how it behaves and how it works. And the normal approach is that if RIK, if the party does not submit evidence, but only the request for this status, will also look at it to determine whether the party involved is, in the first instance, representing the interests of national minorities. I don't really see what would be more important than the statutes of that party that wants to use this status. I don't think there's any need to explicitly state something like that in law. By the nature of things, such an act will be looked at. Then, I'd like to point out one thing, which is that you can't put everything into laws, and there's no need to put everything into laws. Some things are simple for sublegal regulation. It is quite possible that the Republic Election Commission will develop this law in an appropriate sub-legislative manner, if we adopt it, and that it will regulate those things that have not been mentioned. As for the second, third and other generations of voters, mentioned by a distinguished colleague, I stress that we here only our citizens, whether they have or do not have a residence abroad, can lead here as voters. It's quite possible that there really are our citizens who have never been to this country. It's some child of a gaster who was born abroad, who sought a diplomatic and consular representation of citizenship, but never, for example, came into the country, never had any residence, no residence here. For this reason, in our bill, we give the possibility that voters should be listed not only in the last place of residence, it's the gaster who, for example, is a gaster. He left the country, but towards the last place of one of his parents. So, this gaster-rubber, on the basis of which the child was entitled to sign up for the book of our citizens, and for example, it was never in this country, it had no residence, it had no residence. That's how we spread our options, and I've already said it from this pay phone. We make every man our citizen, and the man is, we make a commitment to serve the army. At the same time, if he didn't sign up for the voter's list, we won't let him vote. With this bill of law, we correct this injustice and that totally inconsistencies, that someone in the state has never been asked to serve the army, and we don't allow it to vote. Now we're creating the possibility that he can vote. So we're creating the possibility that the Constitution of this state not only burdens but also good, not only obligations but rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u693	The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, and then the last reported one, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u694	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be concise. We're all tired already, it's the end of business hours, and especially since the discussion, at least in the last half hour, has been very constructive. I'm just going to repeat part of what I said Thursday and Friday, which is that I simply have some reserves according to the way the parliamentary majority conducts the debate in this assembly. It is that the first two points of the agenda were very controversial from the point of view of the Constitution, the law and the principles of legal certainty. Then, the fourth and fifth points were put in strange order, without breach of the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me there was some party vanity. Finally, if the DSS will vote in favour of the SRS proposal, then the SRS proposal will be adopted, so I don't understand why the DSS submitted its proposal at all, because it was completely unthinkable by this other proposal. It should happen again more than once, because it's not good for you to start your work that way. Today you have proposed to adopt amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs in which you have promoted two extraordinary ideas. These are ideas that are very close to the Democratic Party. We have shown this in practice by making two authentic representatives of national minorities the parliamentary list Democratic Party – Boris Tadic. On that side you have our full support and understanding, but we simply think that these two ideas are trying to integrate into our legal life in one very bad way, or through one pretty bad law. So these are two ideas: one is to allow the diaspora to vote in the elections and it is quite correct and legitimate; the other is to introduce national minorities in an appropriate way into our political life, and it is certainly better to have it through elections and through parliament than in the way that we had it in previous years. We intervened with the amendments, and you unfortunately had no understanding of these amendments. I'm very sorry about that. I'll explain later why I think you should have accepted them. If the amendment itself was not properly drawn up, given that an emergency procedure was made, I think the Committee on Justice and Administration could react, at least to a part of the amendment that was not disputed. He could have been put up as an amendment to the Justice and Administration Committee and I'll tell you when I get to that member. First, the question of electoral law. In Article 1 The draft law is amended as set out in Article 4. (Article 13 of the basic law) so it reads: "The electoral list includes voters who have residence abroad according to the last residence before going abroad", it is not controversial, but it is disputed that this is further, "or the last residence of one of their parents". So, if that man had a residence abroad, it means that when he was born and his parents didn't have a place in the country, because if his parents had a place in the country, he would, by the logic of things, be listed, whether he was born, say, in Germany or in any other country. I don't think it's very appropriate for one such person, who may not even know where Serbia is, to be able to choose. We might have been able to go first with this first part of the provision -- any honor if it has your amendment, we'll probably vote for that amendment -- I think at this point it might have stopped in your proposal on the part that applies to the people who had the last residence on our country's territory. I'll limit the discussion to just a few questions, because through them I want to show the character of all those faults in the bill that makes me think that you've compromised two extraordinary ideas in some way. Another issue that concerns me unclearly is Article 11: "The voters who have their residence abroad vote in the diplomatic and consular representations of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and in the special polling stations designated by the Republic Election Commission, according to the prepared opinion of the foreign affairs ministry." I'm just curious about what special polling stations these are. I'm fully aware of the motionary's intensity. So I'm clearly given a network of our diplomatic and consular representations isn't big. We're not a big and powerful state to have them all over the place, but there's a question of what other places they are. It could be, I guess, a bar, it could be someone's house, it could be a cultural center, which is much nicer, but it's rare that it'll happen. That's where we ask two questions. One question is solved by agreements between us and the state where votes are to be made. It's a matter of sovereignty, and there's no problem here, but can you imagine this polling spot that won't have national markings, it won't have our flag, because that polling place, by the logic of things, isn't external to the country where it is. Here, a colleague really great pointed out that the solutions in the law should be viewed dynamically, and I totally agree with that. You should have held back in the first part of the provision, to open up the perspective and as a home show our commitment to the diaspora vote, and when conditions are created potentially to increase that possibility. Indeed, I fully agree with you there. A dynamic view should be made of the solution in the law and should have been consistent with Articles 1 and 11. It's the most well-intentioned remark. There have been a lot of objections about technique, how this vote will be held abroad, but I won't go any further. I would return to the part relating to another extraordinary idea, which the Democratic Party fully supports, which is the introduction of some kind of positive discrimination for national minorities. I am sorry, I will repeat what we have all said, and this is the authority of the Republic Election Commission referred to in Article 12: "Is the applicant of the electoral list having the position of the political party of the national minority, or the coalition of the political parties of national minorities, the Republic Election Commission decides when declaring the electoral list, and on a proposal from the applicant of the electoral list?" Indeed, a simple question is raised, on the basis of which criteria the Republic Election Commission will decide. We intervened with the amendment. The amendment reads: "The Republic Election Commission will in the process of declaring the electoral list, and at the request of the political party or coalition that submitted the electoral list, determine whether the conditions for declaring the minority electoral list have been met with insight into the statutes and the political party's programme, i.e. the coalition agreement of the parties of national minorities." We believe that it was better to specify in this way and I do not understand why this amendment has not been adopted, why it has not been accepted in the analysis through committees, and especially through the Committee on Justice and Administration. I repeat, it is an urgent procedure and we were able to intervene through this committee, or you, members of the Justice and Management Committee, you could intervene, then put together the amendment yourself and give it. We need to get rid of it to look at things exclusively with that prefix whether they come from this or that political group, because vanity in politics not only isn't a good quality, it's a flaw. I think we've shown too much vanity for the work of this House to begin. The second grudge concerns the system you chose to introduce national minorities into our political life. It's a big question of how much we're doing for national minorities today. You could have consulted a comparative right, which is also very well known to you, and at least you showed it in the discussions I listened to today and yesterday. I think we could have defined ourselves for some different and better system, perhaps that system that includes double voting, or the possibility of voting for a number of seats within parliament, but also of course voting in general elections. Why would I think that? Because once we adopt this law, we from the Democratic Party will vote for this law, there is no dilemma, we place a very sharp edge or a division of Serbia's political scene on the Serbian political party corps and the national minority party corps. Every member of the national minority I think we're putting or we can put in a rather awkward position, so that he is pressed to vote for his national minority party at all costs. 'Cause that's some kind of threshold, if he crosses it, he can have some unpleasantness. I think we share Serbia's political scene, which is not good in a society that has already been divided on various grounds. You put us in front of a great deal of this bill, because the ideas you wanted to integrate into our political life are civilized, modern and commendable and we support them. But we still think the way could have been much better. I think it would be easiest if you had withdrawn this law and we had submitted it together, or that you had proposed a law that would have respected all the objections that were heard here. I must admit, I should bet we'll change this law, if anything, even after the constitution is passed, and before the election. I should bet the elections won't be conducted under this law the way we've been given today, and here I will accept collegiately and friendlyly with every dear MP working together on this issue. I think that through a different agreed law, we would much more help national minorities to participate in our political life-saving political capacity, which implies positive discrimination against those who make up the national minority. So I know you won't withdraw the law, so we've been forced to decide how we're going to vote on this law. Because of the importance of ideas that should be brought to life in our political life, which concerns the vote of diaspora and national minorities, we will vote in favour of your bill, in the hope that you will accept our amendments, and if that does not happen, in the hope that, in a few months, two or three, after the adoption of the Constitution, we will jointly make a bill under which the elections will finally take place for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u695	Mr. Ristivojevic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u696	Just a few things to answer to an esteemed colleague who spoke just before me. So, as for the reason why one of the criteria for enrolling voters abroad is also the parent's residence, I was saying it literally right before you said it, and I explained it, and I really don't know if there's any need to explain again why, among other things, and according to the last residence of at least one of the parents, it's the connection for enrollment in voter records abroad. There are our citizens who have never been to Yugoslavia, they never had a residence here, they're not in any records, except in our citizens' book, and that's why we don't have any other way to sign them up if they want to vote. As for your comment that it may be questionable whether they should be given the right to vote out of a simple reason that they may not be interested in the elections in this country, I don't think it's necessary for us to decide whether they have or don't have the right to vote or not; we need to leave them an option, and each of them will be able to intervene by enrolling in that voter's record. As for this determination of other polling stations, meaning not only in diplomatic and consular representations but also elsewhere, I would like to point out to you the fact that there are 8,820 and some polling stations in the Republic of Serbia. The law on the selection of MPs does not speak at all about any of that polling place, or where it is, or what it is, or how it is, etc. That's because it's about matter that's for sublaws, for RIK. It's not about the matter that's for the law, which means if we were to move closer to determining those other polling stations, we would practically limit and bind RIK, in a way and make elections more difficult. This should be left to RIK, it will, in addition to the foreign ministry's opinion, see where these polling stations can be opened, where they can't, etc. As for the amendments that you have submitted, I agree that in a certain way further clarification is possible, in the way that you have proposed, which is by direct insight into the statutes and the political party's programme, but I'm afraid that this is how you introduce a related assessment of the evidence, means that it must only be seen in the statute that RIK determines the status of the party of the political minority that would not have censorship, and I'm afraid it would be totally inappropriate and that would bind the hands to RIK. I think that without explicitly mentioning the political party's programme, the criteria that we put here, which is that it is a party that is exclusively committed to the exercise of the rights of members of the national minorities, it is natural that RIK will first ask whoever submits that request for his programme to exercise insight into what he is doing. The party program is practically her statement about what she's fighting for, what she stands for. By the nature of things, RIK will do it first. I don't think it's necessary to explicitly state it in law, especially to tie the RIK like this. That would be some kind of tied-up evidence assessment. Then, you are right that there are really more ways in which we can realize that the political will of the tentacles of national minorities is expressed in this Parliament. It's possible, for example, a system of guaranteed places. I'm not saying it, but it would take a much bigger, bigger, more serious, more complex intervention in law than the one we're proposing. But it is possible, for example, to change the entire electoral system into a majority solution. In the majority electoral system, members of national minorities, in those electoral units where they are in a relative or absolute majority, will achieve victory and will be represented in parliament. For example, six municipalities in the north of Vojvodina, where the Hungarian national minority is in a relative or absolute majority, in the majority election in these municipalities will win and then have its representatives. So it's possible that a number of different ways to achieve the political will of national minorities in this body, but we think this is the most appropriate emergency procedure and the fastest of those that are possible, and it's really more possible, and as you say, in another way. I've already repeated several times, and I'm going to repeat again, what we predict for national minorities is law, not obligation. No one is forced to vote necessarily for any party of the Nazi minorities, he only has the right, has the choice of one party to request that status and that later, when its result is calculated in the elections, the party's censorship does not limit it. No force, no coercion. Any member of the national minority can vote for whoever they want to continue. Any party of national minorities can claim this right, and it doesn't have to; it can join a coalition with a majority party, then it doesn't need this right. The majority party will introduce the minority to parliament. And finally, as for your remarks that we are likely to change this law right after the Constitution, I'm not saying we're not going to change it, but trust me a lot of what will change after the Constitution, so that's no reason for this state to stop until a new constitution is passed, that nothing works and this parliament to stand. He would really have to do his job further, no matter when the constitution is passed, what it will look like, and what we will change after him. We'll probably be changing a lot, but I repeat, it's not a reason to stop by fixing those laws that are bad and not well-founded.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u697	The last to be reported for the debate in principle is MP Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u698	Dear colleagues, as you have heard the MPs of the DS who spoke before me, a list of the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs with a large fence, that there are certain shortcomings in this proposal, above all in the provisions themselves, and that this is not a comprehensive solution. I don't think there was any reason to rush this amendment and the addition of the law without some of the shortcomings of the existing law being taken into account. So, it is not the proposing's contentious intention, and it, on the surface, looks fine, but essentially, I think that the perv's interest was to gain one part of the national minority's voting body or at least to bind the parties of the national minorities to their political option, and one part of the diaspora's voting body. In any case, as a representative of the Zlatibor County, in some way, which has 10 municipalities, where you have municipalities where national minorities, or Bosniaks, are a dominant national minority, I support this bill, but I support it for another reason, which the Democratic Party has always supported and has been in a position to support the rights of national minorities that are in line with international standards. Nothing's changed about that either. We cannot bind collective rights of national minorities, such as language, culture and education, to their individual rights. However, individual rights are those that give them the right to choose and be elected, and thus affect the status of national minorities. We have a situation now in parliament that because of this censorship of the national minority did not enter parliament. Having entered through some parliamentary groups is not enough reason for us not to accept this provision in the bill of amending the law. Besides, if we could see how many representatives of national minorities are here and on the lists of these parliamentary groups that have entered parliament, I'm sure there are no more than 20. If we know that the national minorities in Serbia make up almost a million people, or about 980,000 or 18% of the population in Serbia, then we can easily calculate that by that logic things in this parliament should be at least 35 to 40 representatives of national minorities. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law is not good because it does not solve the problem of other national minorities, except the Bosniak national minority and the national minority of Hungary. You have in Serbia, according to a record that exists, about 25-26 national minorities. What no one has mentioned behind this speaker – the problem of the national Roma minority, which, according to the latest list, is the third national minority in Serbia; more specifically, there are 1.44%, right behind the national minority of Hungarians and Bosniaks. It is the national minority that is in the most difficult situation, the most uneducated and weakest organised in Serbia, no legal solution in this sense has the proponent had in mind here, and I don't think Serbia has done much to ensure that this national minority is represented to any extent in this parliament. So, a lot of ambiguity and indeterminateness, but for the reasons that I have told you and the positions of the Democratic Party, we will support this bill in this part. What's more controversial, it's this supplement that concerns diaspora rights... (President: time for the group is up. ) I will skip the problem of technical nature, mentioned here by almost all representatives of the parliamentary groups. I'm just going to say a few words about the political or essential dimension of this issue. I said the intention was good, but I don't think the best time was chosen. In addition, Kostunica has often, as well as representatives of his party, pointed out that the DSS is the one whose interest is first or foremost Serbia and Serbian citizens. In that sense, I think that the DSS, and with it iG17 plus as proposings, should consider whether at this point giving the right to vote the diaspora is a good solution, as I am quite certain of what they were talking about yesterday and today, that the largest foothold in the diaspora's voting body has the Radical Party and its political option, much less the DSS, and I don't think that the G17 plus has a foothold in that voting body at all. And on this side, it is not good for Serbia, which is in a difficult economic state, a political state, and you know what the economic situation in Serbia is, at this point, to introduce the right to a shortcut and to give the diaspora that in some way the national party that won so many votes, as it won, strengthens. (President: Please bring the end. In the end, given that the time of our parliamentary group is up, I have no objection to the right to diaspora to vote, but in a much more stable and happy time for Serbia, and in any case as citizens of Serbia should respect them in one other way at this time – allow them to invest economically in this country and help this country economically strengthen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u699	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u700	Mr. Martic, just one thing, I've never brought this bill into contact with any national minority. That's why I don't think there's any need to mention a particularly Roma national minority and to claim that this law is being discriminated against in any way. No national minority is this law in any way discriminated against. This is a possibility that is given by law to every national minority. This is not a law written, conditioned, for a Hungarian or Bosniak national minority, and neither is it for Roma. It's for all equal or for all equally written. As for voters abroad, this law is not written for anyone's voters abroad and I personally don't like sharing voters with ours, yours, these, those, etc. This law was written for our citizens abroad, to bring them closer to being able to participate in the political process in this country. It doesn't matter who they vote for. Believe me, I don't give a shit, as a representative of the proposings and the parliamentary group that I represent, who these people will vote for. Let them vote for whom they will, by their conscience, it will be the best thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u701	Before I conclude the search in principle, I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups if they want a word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want to use the right of Article 89? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u702	It's not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u703	The proposer does not accept the amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u704	Since the proposaler's representative was convincing, he was barely able to see what the amendment was. The SRS amendment, for the sake of the public and also for the proposing, refers to Article 1. The bill, article 4 of Article 13 of the basic law, where the proposer says "the voters who have a residence abroad are enrolled in the voter list, according to the last residence before going abroad, or the last residence of one of their parents". The SRS suggests that this last provision of this attitude be deleted. So, for the purpose of keeping a single list of voters and registering voters in that list, to delete the provision to do so according to "the last residence of one of their parents". Why does the SRS do this - to improve such an unspeakable legislative proposal. We are aware of the fact that if this law were to be adopted as a whole, it would cause further confusion. What kind of confusion would that be? Confusions where there would simply be an excuse that a single list cannot be run because by subsequent enrollment of those who have a temporary stay abroad and in order to create confusion. We know that the regulations governing citizenship, IDs, such as passport or ID card, rules governing a unique home number, clearly define those voters who are to be included in the unique voter list. If we were to deal with this provision and if this provision remained like this, without the adoption of the SRS amendment, what would happen to us. It would happen that all those born abroad would be listed in the polling list, have a temporary stay abroad, and are not kept in any record in the Republic of Serbia; they are neither citizens, nor have ID cards, nor documents, let alone a single home number. So it would come to what is one part and a proposing party, or a party that suggested that the third generation in the overseas states is the most represented. Under this provision of the law, the third generation, the citizens of America, Australia and so on, would be recorded in the list, the list could never be settled, they would be entitled to vote on the basis of these legal provisions, they would be equal voters, and then they would be asked, realistically, how with that part, especially the Serb people, who are in the status of refugees and exiled persons, who have no citizenship so far, and they would also have the right to vote under automation. Because the very fact that this law does not regulate what has been regulated by the rules relating to citizenship, the passport, the possession of personal documents, speaks enough to cause this law to cause additional chaos, and it would be the reason for each political party to object to the irregularities of future elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u705	Here you go, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u706	A little help for the citizens to understand and the MPs to vote for this amendment, because there is practically no other choice. What the promoter wrote can't exist. It can't be for the simple reason that a law that regulates the choice of MPs and defines the electoral right takes care of three things. The first is adulthood, the second is citizenship, the third is residence. If these three things are considered, then from the point of view of our law, there can be no residence abroad, but our citizen can temporarily stay abroad. A residence on the side of the country can exist, but from the point of view of our country and our law, it can't. Our law knows of residence and residence in our home, not abroad. And this enrollment thing where parents are listed, if it stays, it'll be an even bigger confusion with a unique ballot that we don't have. What is regrettable in this National Assembly - the promoter did nothing, did not want to intervene to arrange a unique voter list, because it still says that no one knows who is running, who is doing confidential data change and data recording, records, etc. And, I'm surprised that at least the first 30 provisions of these laws have not been completed with the relevant provisions, where it would be precisely defined who is running the single polling list, how a single polling list is conducted, and how special copies and special records from the voter's list are given. Well, of course, and control of the voter's list, insight into the unique polling list, etc. If we remember a little bit, the DSS was the most complaining that there was no single voter list, rushed to change the law and did not touch the single voter list, because they allegedly promised. What they promised, it's probably not clear to them either. So, the amendment has to be adopted for a simple reason, if not adopted, this member of the law cannot be applied. No state authority may commit itself on the basis of this text which they have proposed because that text does not mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u707	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 4 was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u708	The history of this DSS proposal is how to steal a CD, escape to the toilet and read with some tools what is written. Yeah, it seems funny, but that's what happened. Of course, it only happened in the second round, when their beloved candidate, of course, failed, so they remembered that there was no single electoral list, and that was the case with the SRS in the first election round. Now, they're looking for an exclusive right for voters of elected election lists, so they can intervene in the voter's list. That right has a citizen as an individual, and when it comes to the death of a relative. Prosecutors of the declared electoral lists have only the right to see into the unique voter's list. And if they were to apply, run some procedure and be party to the individual's personal status procedure, it's absolutely impossible, it's forbidden, the Constitution doesn't allow, not just ours, but no constitution; none. So far the constitutional system protects the rights of an individual so, for example, in Portugal it's forbidden to run a home number, not to allow citizens to define themselves by numbers. Unfortunately, our proposings would like to have the exclusive right to conduct the procedure to delete Janko Jankovic from the voter's list. That right does not have an applicant of the electoral list. He can suggest, he can suggest, but to be a party in the process, it's absolutely off. Now, you see, we have new experts, who don't exactly care about the rights and freedoms of individuals and citizens, but put their interests first. Yes, my interest. If they thought they needed to edit the single voter lists, they could handle it with 30 provisions. They don't have to go far, let them take a Montenegrin example, where it's quite solidly solved how an entry is made into a single polling list, that the same person can only be entered in one place, can't be entered in any more places, and after automation and died, and the persons who have moved delete or updated a single polling list. No, the Democratic Party of Serbia doesn't want that. She wants her exclusive right, because constitutionality and legality are valued in this country only according to the interests of the DSS and everyone needs to know that. Both constitutionality and legality depend on whether anyone can win without setting fire to the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u709	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. The proposing representative accepts the amendment and becomes an integral part of the bill. The proposal to add a new Article 7a after Article 7. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. He doesn't accept. Does the promoter want a word? He's not here. ) Does anyone else want to report for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u710	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment refers to solving the problem of gender equality or better said gender inequality, which is in our society, and above all in this House, highly represented. So we propose that at least 30 percent of the candidates of the less-represented half be found on the electoral list and that the order of candidates is determined by one candidate of the less-represented sex being placed in one of the first four places, four other places, and so on until the end of the list. The electoral list that does not meet the condition will be considered messy, and the list promoter will be invited to remove the deficiency. Yesterday, in my address to this esteemed meeting, during a debate on the principle of the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, I discussed the reasons why we feel that resolving this problem is necessary. They're gonna do it again today. So, while women account for 52 per cent of Serbia's electoral body, only 10 per cent are represented in this parliament. It's the level of undeveloped African countries. In developed democracies, such as Sweden, they are represented by 47 per cent, in Italy with 35, and in China with 26 per cent. So more drastically than in this House. If we are really seeking to be a democratic society, then this congregation must take over its enlightening role and role in emancipation. So the interests of this society are that 52 percent of women take the decision when it comes to their own destiny, the fate of our children and the fate of the state. We believe that if the promoter accepts this as an integral part of the bill's proposal, he will create a drastic civilization problem, encourage our fellow citizens to participate in politics and simply correct a historical injustice that is characterized by the fact that women have won power with the eternal backdrop. I appeal once again to the promoter to include this amendment in his law, because, once again, I will remind, that is European standards, that is, the interest of this society. I will also remind you that the United Nations Resolution 3513, which is binding in the same way as Resolution 1244, provides for post-conflict countries to develop mechanisms to improve the position of women in society and increase its participation in parliaments. Once again, I urge this amendment to enter the Law on the selection of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u711	Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a convenient opportunity to, after the Law on Local Self-Government, which regulated this matter with one amendment, try again to talk about gender equality objectively, not to force anyone to do what is right. It is the right in Serbia for everyone to use their active and passive voting rights. Women use the right to be chosen. That is why we are all guilty, and most often those who have created an opinion on people who do politics, even if they are MPs, that they are dirty, that they are corrupt, that they are corrupt, that they are bad, that they are bad people, and that women tend to get away from that work. We who are also a party, besides the work in the Assembly, who have founded hundreds of committees, who attend the meetings of these committees, who participate in the work of these committees in the party, know very well how difficult it is to ensure that women are represented in the party, not because men do not want it, but because they do not want women. I'm not saying that the patriarchal relationship in the family is deciding on it, but if there's an affinity to politics in the family, it's usually a man's definition, and both husband and wife are avoiding political work, in principle, dealing with it. We Serbian radicals would like to have 30 percent of women in this assembly. This amendment does not provide for that. This amendment concerns the amendment to Article 13. They should both be accepted to provide 30 per cent of women in parliament. The amendment to Article 13 is impossible. You are asking that the order of elected MPs be exclusively according to the order in the election list, in order to meet the condition that each fourth MP should be a woman. That's impossible. What if one of those on the list refuses to sign to accept the application? What if he doesn't want to be an MP? For this reason, the Law on the Selection of Members of the People has left the right to propose to the elector, who submits the list of elected MPs himself. It used to be that the first third must be in order, and this law that is now in force, which is still in force, he says the promoter submits a list and that there are no restrictions on the list. There's really no limit. It's not true that the first one on the list is the most valuable, so the second one's a little less valuable, so the third one's even less valuable. That's not true. He's taking two hundred places on the list, someone who's worth a lot of money to the party. Such relations are in the party, and it doesn't necessarily mean that if you have 15 mandates, the sixteenth will not be an MP. Maybe the 13th won't be. With a comment on why the amendment did not look like a solution to the Law on Local Self-Government, 30 per cent of candidates must be from the half that is less represented, 30 per cent must be selected from those who are less represented and the problem is solved. This is how you tie us up. You're putting us in a position not to accept your amendment because we cannot accept the amendment to Article 13 amending Article 84. We just can't. No promoter, no voter will agree that the order of elected MPs should be the order from the list he handed over to RIK. So, if you saw that the amendment she submitted, it seems to me, MP Leila Ruzdic, who was identical to this, if you saw that he did not ensure that 30 percent of women were elected, and your amendment did not provide it, he was only talking about the electoral list on which 30 percent of women must be, he did not provide the selection of 30 percent of women, if you saw that it was not enough, the amendment should be corrected so that 30 percent of women should be selected. Here, with a great deal of goodwill, with the willingness of the SRS to fix the proposed solution with the amendment, I think it's too late now, and the Assembly would look much better, much nicer and much more peacefully that 30 percent of women in the Assembly. I know that very well, but we really can't. Even if we accept this amendment and make the list as requested... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Amendment to Article 40, we cannot accept you because of that further amendment which, in fact, provides women with the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u714	Ladies and gentlemen, I claim this amendment is impossible. In fact, it says here that there must be at least 30% of the candidates of the less-represented sex on the election list. The order of candidates is determined by putting one candidate of the less represented half to one of the first four places, the other four places, and so on. If this is strictly applied this way, 25% will be represented, not 30%. So, formally, mathematically, this is impossible. This cannot be done in practice, regardless of our good will to accept it, this is impossible and should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u715	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Would you like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment? He doesn't accept. The applicant for the amendment, Mrs Ruzdic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u716	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after the presentation of my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic, I thought I would give up my reasoning, however, after Mr Nikolic, I received in fact confirmation that the amendment would be voted because there is no limiting amendment problem to Article 13. And I'm also relying on what Mr. Nikolic said, that we're all a little bit guilty, so that's why I don't think there's any reason for us to do this, and what we've been doing so far, to correct it. In addition, we have already voted on the same amendment in the Law on Local Elections. That's why I think this law should have a solution like this. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that half of our population is not denied and disfellowshipped from the legislative decision-making process, which is relevant to all of us. If we look at the picture of the last Parliament calling, where there were 12.8% of women, and in today's parliament, the one where we're all only 11% together, we see the trend of falling that percentage. This can only be corrected by a positive discrimination mechanism, i.e. by adopting this amendment and by introducing the less represented sex into a higher percentage of this congregation. Our society is in the development of democracy. Democracy is a representation, equal representation, or partnership between men and women in the management of state affairs, so I think that this kind of solution is actually making us rich in this process of democracy and that the introduction into the law of the amendments that we have proposed can only improve the process of democracy. In the end, I'd just like to illustrate what it's going to look like and what we're accomplishing by adopting this amendment. When one of us and our political parties submits a parliamentary list of 200 candidates and 50 candidates, we will all have to try to make at least 75% of the candidates, or men, on the list, so that the list would be accepted and that is why we are pushing for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u717	Mr. Nikolic, then Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u718	I have no intention of plowing, but I don't think Mrs Ruzdic-Trifunović interprets her amendment well. Here, we will vote to accept that amendment, but it does not ensure that 30% of women are MPs. You came out here and said you were now convinced we'd vote, because your amendment provides security, not security. He only ensures that 30% of the candidates are half who are less represented. That's step one? You know, in life and politics, I look at everything that we imagine and realize, and not to say, here, this is our first step, this diaspora law, for women is the first step; let's just take as many steps as it takes to change the law. There's no hurry, I guess there won't be a choice for MPs within a month. Here, I promise you, we will propose a good law on the selection of MPs, put it on the agenda within a month, you will have a law on which you may not have to make amendments. I don't see any reason to rush. You are absolutely right, all of you who have proposed this amendment, to install it into a legal solution, but not half way; if the less represented sex has the right to 30% of the candidates, we must ensure that it has the right to 30% of the selected. The solution is very clear, two sentences can be written; this is not how it is provided. Here, now we can't vote, because I don't want to create an illusion of how we took the first step. What does the first step mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u719	The word is Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u720	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a sad picture of this House, and the bad news is that only 10% of the people's MPs are more beautiful than in aesthetic terms, but also in aesthetic terms, it would be much better if proportions were significantly different in favour of women. In a political sense, we are in a society where men have a monopoly on political action, and it is obvious by representation in parliament, by representation in the executive bodies of the authorities, and exactly the opposite of the fact that 2/3 are graduates, or completed students of women, that 2/3 are masters and doctors of science women and that women make disproportionately greater contributions in all areas of social life, in culture, science, economy, and that politics cannot come to terms. That's not why women aren't interested, that's why there's one fundamental monopoly that exists. The fact is that men exist in politics constantly, and women don't have many opportunities, they haven't had much in the past to deal with political life and therefore there has to be a principle of positive discrimination. In order to achieve that principle, we must really go from the first step, that is, we must start from changing the law and from the proportion on the lists, that is, the proportion that will allow 30% of women to be represented on the lists. I absolutely have no doubt that every political party can find more than enough quality candidates among its members, I absolutely have no doubt; with little practice, with policy-making, women can have not only 30%, but much more and draw closer to the fact that women make up 52% of voters, and only 10% of the MPs in this assembly belong to the female sex. In that sense, DS MPs will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u721	Here, you're right, Mrs. Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u722	I am reporting again, first of all, to express my satisfaction because Mr Nikolic has no fundamental objection to the fact that it is necessary to fix this matter about the presence of women in parliament, he already has objections to technical details and I agree that perhaps this could have been done in another way, more specifically to write. I'm getting into the story of the next amendment you mentioned here. I just don't see what the order on the list you voters represent when you go to the polls is. It's my problem that most parties change after that composition. So, in a way, you deceive your voters, because when you see ten first people, then they commit themselves to the list of those people, and then you change that list, and in a way you deceive your constituents. If anyone changes their mind, they won't enter parliament, then simply replace that someone with the next one. If a man is a man's messenger, and if a place is provided for a woman, then a woman's messenger. I think if there's any good will we can do it or if you're not ready to support the next amendment, which makes it conditional, although you say it's some sort of hypocrisy or we don't need to take some steps, yet I think we'll encourage our fellow citizens if you at least adopt this amendment and take one step of goodwill to really encourage women to do politics here is not the decision to deal with something dirty and ugly, which is reserved exclusively for men. I think that, to a large extent, also frees men from these kinds of burdens and prejudices, which otherwise exists in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u723	The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u724	I've heard a lot of things, but that ugly and dirty jobs are predestined only for men, that's what I first heard today. It's like one move that can't catch the root. Why can't we accept the obligation for MPs to be in the order in which the candidates are on the election list? You know for a fact that the political party can be the ruling party, it can appoint ministers from the list, it can appoint MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, it can plan all this. One big, serious political party plans all this in advance, and wants to highlight the top of its list of people who are recognizable, who will bring votes. These people don't leave the party after the election. It's no hoax. It's a client. Of course, such a bill was probably done by MPs in the congregation. When you do a more serious bill, people who aren't MPs get mixed up, party activists. These people are also making a party. It is not mandatory for the party, nor will any applicant of the electoral list accept it to determine the MPs in order, in accordance with the order set out in the list. The campaign lasts two months. Someone in the campaign is having an affair. You know how easy it is to have an affair. Someone moves on to another political party, someone agrees with another empire. If you think that means anything to you, if you Mrs. Leila think it means something to us to accept that amendment -- whether we accept yours or yours, I'm a little different, which one of you means more, so let's accept the amendment -- here, we'll accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u725	If no one ever answers their word again, we'll go to the next amendment. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I ask the motionary's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u726	With this amendment, we helped the promoter, since he left out one text in the bill and we only practically complemented what was missing. In fact, we cannot accept the fact that the Republic Election Commission itself, on the proposal of someone from the diplomatic and consular representation, sets out polling stations abroad. With the amendment, we only specify the obligation of the Republic Election Commission to determine the polling stations abroad, which must be taken into account. So, with this amendment, we don't touch the right to vote, but we force the obligation of the Republic Election Commission not to make it so arbitrary when it determines the polling stations. The amendment is in line with that legislation that says more than 100 voters can vote at the polling post in Serbia and less than 2,500 voters. So that's the same rank, with what we said when taking care of voters abroad so that the polling post is not more than 100km away from their place, as they say, of residence, because we can't expect voters abroad to be exposed to unnecessary costs, to travel for three, four, five, six thousand kilometers to come to vote, but should already be about the same position as citizens and voters who vote in Serbia. Of course, some specificity should be respected because it is still voted abroad. Here we have people voting 200 meters, two kilometers, five kilometers from home, and there we believe that about that distance of 100 kilometers is an optimal distance so as not to increase the cost of our voter abroad to come to fulfill his right and his obligation. Of course, those who take care of the diaspira and our foreign voters say the amendment is wrong. They imagined the first step. For them, this law is the first step. The second step is not seen and they are not interested in the second step at all. If the law is passed, then the law must objectively and neutrally put all voters in the same position, because we are only talking by law about how the voters exercise a right. We cannot by law say that the Republic Election Commission independently determines where the polling post will be abroad. What if all of Russia is determined by one polling station, and they have eight time zones? That logic tells us where the polling stations will be, in diplomatic and consular representations, and if someone in that voting partnership approves a particular polling post, we can know with great precision who will vote. Whosoever is written in, and those who are privileged. We just want to be a little more specific about these things, because we take care of voters abroad, and we care more about them than the legislator does. Says the bill promoter to increase costs in this way. Elections are being held. Costs exist in Serbia when elections are organised. Of course the cost of foreign elections should be borne. You're the one who suggested and I guess you've taken care of the costs. You can't say now – because of the high costs of some citizens abroad, we won't allow them to exercise electoral rights or make it significantly difficult for them to exercise electoral rights. You promised the diaspora, you just promised not to vote more than 100 kilometers away from where they live abroad. Be consequent until the end, be committed to it. We just put in the amendment what you left out by mistake. We know you're supporting this, but why are you retarded? That's a nice idea. We've been commending you for the idea. Accept the amendment that this idea is even better and that this is not the first step but that this is a lasting step, solved for all time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u727	Before I give the word to Milic Gavrilovic, we have a proposal for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u728	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I would ask you to make another small effort of one half hour, possibly a little more, and to finish the debate today. There are only a few amendments left, so tomorrow we can vote and devote ourselves to some other things. Well, that's my suggestion, to work until the debate is over. There are only four or five amendments left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u729	Please, before the vote, let us determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to decide on. Please state the proposal to extend the work until the debate is completed in particular on this agenda point. For 152, against nine, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the People's Assembly has decided to extend the work until the debate on this agenda is over. We are continuing the debate on the amendment. Milica Gavrilovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by Mr. Zoran Krasic is absolutely not in agreement with the aim and purpose of the DSS proposal, meaning the proposal on the agenda. The aim of the proposal is precisely to allow our citizens abroad the right to vote in the cheapest way. So, for example, with this kind of proposal, we kind of get into a situation to save at least $6,000 to a four-member family, say, to get Belgrade to vote from Australia. He's got cases like that. This amendment, Mr. Zoran Krasic, does not allow our citizens to vote, but rather deprives them of that right, by saying that the voter living at a distance of 101km from the polling post does not have the right to vote. So, in this way, he just wants his right to be denied, not given the right to do so, because it's probably logical that someone will travel easier and travel 200 kilometers, but it will cross 15,000 miles, and there are such opportunities. That is why I call upon all Members of the People's Parliament not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u731	Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u732	Of course, MPs have noticed, this is a simple replacement of thesis. A simple replacement of thesis based on some songs about what the law's goal is. The law has no purpose, it has its own object. The subject of this Act on Amendments and Supplements is the same as the subject of that law in the basic text adopted in 2000, which is a constitutional obligation to regulate the way in which the electoral rights in Serbia, the citizens of our citizens who live here, who have the right to choose and be elected. So the aim of the law is not to enable someone new, but to all citizens who have the right to vote. We're against that division. Why do you just share the citizens? You don't need to share your citizens. All citizens are equal. This amendment does not deprive or make it difficult for a person to have the right, but rather enables him to carry out his duty and his right to choose with as little cost as possible. You see, according to what the predecessor said here, it's closer to 6,000 kilometers than 100 kilometers. It's this Murphy law that revolves around here and creates the truth out of the truth, twists the facts, and unfortunately for years Serbian citizens have been victims of a mental manipulation. Of course, we are aware of the fact that we cannot have much effect on regulation of how polling stations should look abroad. We can't. We can when it comes to diplomatic and consular representations, and as far as these special polling stations are concerned, if the state manages to arrange that, let it finish the job, be closer to those polling stations to our voters who could vote. This article and this amendment are in exactly the same rank, where it defines what the polling station is. So whoever is against this amendment is against a member of the law that says more than 100 must vote in the polling post and less than 2,500 voters. If the concern is present with the promoter, why did he not propose this member and for the people living in the mountainous and mountainous area, who must walk five, six, or ten kilometers to the polling station, because there are no 100 voters in their village. There you have not shown mercy and concern for these people, but you have shown concern and mercy to those who live in centres, European centres, where there is a great concentration, and you do not care about the periphery where our voters are. You must objectively define the polling place, both abroad and abroad, while respecting some specificity abroad. That's that 100 kilometers. Our voters must be equal. Exceptionally, some kind of restriction could exist. You've made it an extraordinary rule. The rule is you'll have "the D.S.S.S.P. vote." They took the first step, fixed the law by one kilo, and the law weighs 100 kilos. He can't do it that right. He can't. That's why it's no wonder that 90% of your people who worked on this thing are giving up this text. They don't accept this text because they see it as a big media prank. That is why this amendment must be adopted if this concern towards our voters abroad is shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u733	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic's amendment aims to make it possible to conduct elections abroad. So you yourself said during this debate that in some countries there are hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia at a temporary stay. What do you mean 200 or 300,000 people vote in a diplomatic-consular representation or embassy? Secondly, if the aim of this law is, as you say, to allow citizens of Serbia who are not in Serbia to vote, why did you only limit yourself to citizens who are abroad? What about citizens in Montenegro, for example? Are those second-class citizens? If your approach is adopted, we can get into an absurd situation, for example, if one is a resident of Subotica, and is on a temporary stay in Bar, it has to go hundreds of kilometers, it doesn't matter if it's 600, 700, 800 to vote, and if it has a temporary stay in Budapest, it can also vote there in the diplomatic and consular representation, although it would only take 20 or 30 km to its polling post.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u735	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The proposing representative accepts the amendment, making it an integral part of the bill. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivica Dacic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. The proposer's representative does not accept. The word has a representative of the applicant for the amendment, Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u736	Article 73a of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of MPs, even with this amendment that was recently adopted, would constitute the basis for the manipulation of the will of voters. If you did not adopt an amendment that I submitted to this member of the law on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, then the electoral will of the voters would be in the hands of the foreign minister. Imagine, today would be in the hands of Goran Svilanovic. Since the principle of subordination applies in this ministry, one of the ministry's employees, i.e. the diplomatic and consular representation, cannot be expected to oppose the will of his minister. Of course, he shouldn't because he would have experienced the fate of 450 former employees in this ministry, whom Goran Svilanovic gave out his resignations even though, as he said in some newspapers the other day, those good people, excellent experts, good diplomats; and he says he's not worried about their fate, they'll find a job somewhere. I just don't know if he meant which state they're gonna find a job in, considering they're diplomats, and they don't have a job in our diplomacy. We have bad experience with ending the electoral will of citizens, precisely for reasons like this, when elections were held without the presence of representatives of voters of the list, i.e. without the presence of multilateral election committees. In 1997, the Socialists stole the citizens' election will, when Professor Vojislav Seselj won the presidential elections and when he did not become president because we could not prove turnout in some 0.2% of the polling stations. Our representatives, then MPs, were arrested in Kosovo and Metohija, only to reverse the election result. I deliberately mentioned this because several of you from the DSS these days said that Vojislav Seselj had handed that victory over to the Socialists. Gentlemen, that's not true. Read, if you haven't already, Professor Vojislav Seselj's book "Falsified Will of the People" and here you will see that Robert Gelbart came to Serbia at that time and said that all funds were allowed against Seselj. The Socialists at the time had Kosovo and Metohija for the votes they brought to the sacks, and you are trying to provide abroad the votes you will bring to the sacks. You have promised our citizens who live and work abroad that you will allow them to vote here. The SRS has nothing to do with it, but the DSS gentlemen -- did you ask our citizens if they were willing to make their voices a subject of manipulation, whether they were ready for their voices to be misused. I'm telling you, they're not ready for that. So accept this amendment and allow for the regular vote of our citizens abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u737	Mr. Pajtic is entitled to the Rules of Procedure, but before that, because of the minutes, we realize that there was an incorrect finding earlier. Since the amendment to Article 11 submitted by MP Ivica Dacic did not accept the Committee on Justice and Administration, it is not possible to make this amendment an integral part of the proposal, it is possible to vote on it. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Then there must be debate. Yes, then there must be a debate on the amendment. So I'm asking you to go back to that debate, just to hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u738	Dear Chairman, I wanted to advertise the injury of that same article 145, with one more remark. It does not need to be accepted only by the committee responsible, and in this case it is not accepted by the committee responsible and cannot become an integral part of the bill, but is not accepted by the government either. By the Constitution and however we look, by law, the government still exists and should be defined according to the amendments. No amendment submitted and not accepted by the government, accepted only by the competent committee and by the proposing, can become an integral part of the bill. I ask you to correct this mistake and repeat the debate on those amendments that we have found to have become an integral part of the bill, and the government has not considered them at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u739	Mr. Pittice, thank you. You've come to the conclusion of another case, as well as this one. Governments have been sent all amendments and has not said one thing about it. The search is conducted without the government's opinion. The review of the amendment you accepted is opening, which cannot be an integral part. Once again I ask, does the amendment to Article 11, submitted by MP Ivica Dacic, have debaters? No, there isn't. ) Mr Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u740	Let me remind you that before the amendment of Ivica Dacic, we had already accepted two amendments because they were accepted by the promoter and passed without debate. Let's get the debate back. You have accepted Mr Blazic's amendment, by the promoter. The government didn't say anything about him. You have another amendment to Dragoljub Stamenkovic. We can't do that. Read to me the provision of a Rules of Procedure which is strict about the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, if the Government is not a legislator. Then how do you regulate the work of the congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u741	Since I've noticed this mistake and we're trying to correct it with common forces, we're going according to the amendments, as you asked. Since the Government has not given a negative opinion on any amendment, so these two amendments that have been accepted as an integral part, and the amendment to Article 11, we have now returned to the debate and I ask you now to continue the debate on the amendments. Be kind to Article 12. ... I asked, there was no debate. Excuse me, Mr. Krasic, to article 11. Here you go, first breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u742	I also called for an amendment debate on Article 11, but I am interested in how you have easily moved over my question of what is going on with the amendments to the draft law that has not been filed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The procedure is regulated by Article 143. The Rules of Procedure, in which it says - the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government - are required to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments submitted under the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. And then, of course, if they accept both the board and the government, it becomes an integral part of the proposal; if one of them has not accepted it, then the amendment is discussed and voted in particular. But interpreting Article 143, the session cannot begin without the opinion of the competent committees or the Government on amendments, if the government is not a legislator. To begin with, you must at least a little on the muscles to act on the decision of the National Assembly to start without the opinion of the board or without the opinion of the Government. Just because a government that's not going to rule for much longer doesn't mean we don't have a government at all. If the legislative authority is working here with the help of the executive authority, if the executive authority is wondering what the legislative authority is doing, then I consider this also to be the usurpation of one right, the right of the legislative authority over the executive authority. We can't act like there aren't any people who decide our fate today. If you say there's no government, how someone's commanding the police today. If there's no government, how do you pay off the budget? If there is no government, how does everything in the state work? Well, it can't just be a parliament where it works without a government. And all life in Serbia is under government. You've seen it yourself. You tried to make a decision about how the new government would undo the old government's decisions. It's not working. It's not in accordance with the Constitution. This government has a certain capacity, and in particular it has an obligation, a duty and the right to declare itself in the National Assembly, and the National Assembly, if it has its own rules, must respect them. And if you convince us that we don't have a government, because she refused to plead, I remind you of another fact -- and you're ignoring that government. 15 days ago, we were informed that the government had sent 41 draft laws to the National Assembly, renewed laws that had already been in the process. The People's Messengers didn't see them. You have not printed them and delivered them to the Messengers of the people. So you're inadmissiblely ignoring the government. The government is inadmissiblely ignoring the National Assembly as it brings amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of the People, from which the Government comes out. Do you think it's normal for us to work without government opinion today or at least without making a decision about it? Here, let's make a decision that the government is gone, that we don't need her opinion for nothing anymore, but that she rules out there on the street. If you want to vote on it, but this is how the laws are going, this is how the amendments are discussed, it is unacceptable in the National Assembly, at least if we can decide on it, we Serbian radicals. If you decide to vote on one of your own, you'll vote on us, but this is not how we can make this, this is not how we want to do it. Now, that's a lack of law-making at a time when you say we don't have a government, at a time when there's still a government, because of you and your deals, you completely ignore it. So, I suggest that the Assembly first declare whether without the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, it can discuss and decide the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u743	Unfortunately, we have a government. The government delivered an opinion, which was adopted on 20th and seduced in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-President Zarko Korac signed and was delivered to lawmakers. So they didn't say anything about the amendments. They gave an opinion on the law in general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u744	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an injury to another position in article 145. Therefore, according to Article 145(3) of the amendment adopted by the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government become an integral part of the bill, and the National Assembly does not particularly decide on it. Therefore, the government's obligation under Article 143 to consider amendments before the meeting of the Assembly, and that obligation has not been carried out, does not entail any sanctions otherwise, so unless the Government does so. And we are violating our own Rules of Procedure, regardless of our relationship with the Government, unless we are in the debate on amendments that the Government has not accepted. So in this sense, we have made ourselves bound in Article 145 paragraphs 3 and 4 to discuss those amendments that have not been defined by the Government. In that sense, the government cannot bear any sanctions, but as a congregation, we have an obligation and in that sense we cannot even plead to ignore such a obligation. We can amend the Rules of Procedure, so we can say that we do not need the government's opinion, which exists both under the Constitution and by law, independent of the personal composition and whether there are five more minutes or there will be another five years. She exists. Unless it has exercised its obligation to sanction it, there is no such thing as a very clear procedure as defined by the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which implies that we make a special statement on each amendment and implies a special debate on each amendment unless we have a positive opinion both on the Government, and on the competent committee and the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u745	Here, once again, the government has declared itself to the bill in general. The government didn't say anything about the amendments. In Article 159. The Rules of Procedure states that if the Government fails to give an opinion within the set time limit, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion. And that's exactly what we're doing. I don't know what the problem is. It's just... You're asking them not to be an integral part of the amendments that have been accepted by the promoter, but to make a statement at the session. We'll have that debated by tomorrow. If this is the final round of debate, on the course of the amendment, this issue will be discussed by the day of the vote, we will now return to Amendment 11. Mr. Krasic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u746	With this amendment, the SRS sets out what the Proposer has imagined, but it also uses the opportunity to point to some of the principles on which the Law on the Selection of People's MPs is based. The first principle is to enable all voters to effectively exercise their electoral right. The second principle is that voting can only be held in those polling stations where multi-party voting control is possible. The multi-party voting control shall be carried out through the representatives of voters of the electoral lists. These representatives are determined by voters and there is no reason why this basic principle, based on the Law on the selection of MPs, is not applicable when it comes to election committees to hold a vote at polling stations abroad. In this regard, we are also looking for an extended composition for these polling stations, but given some specificity, since people should stay abroad and there to control the elections that last two days, as you have suggested, RIK should assume the obligation to provide complete documentation, necessary for members of the electoral board to arrive at polling stations abroad and, of course, since it is the cost of the election, RIK should bear those costs, because it also bear the cost of elections for polling stations in the Republic of Serbia. The next thing the amendment foresees is that, if RIK cannot provide this minimum, then at that polling post abroad better not to hold elections, not to hold a vote, and if, by any chance, implemented without multilateral control, then the sanctions provided for by the Law on the selection of MPs, where the electoral committee is disbanded, the results of the vote or the third variant used by RIK, unless these results are affected, are not taken into account. The amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u747	Before we continue to work, please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Is anyone else reporting for an amendment to article 11 submitted by MP Ivica Dacic? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. He doesn't accept. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. He doesn't accept. Is anyone answering for this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u748	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I will say only a few sentences or a few of the goals we had in mind when we proposed this amendment, which actually refers to the determination of the 2 per cent censorship. First of all, we believe that the political situation in Serbia is such that it takes another period of time for the Serbian Parliament to more faithfully express political mood in Serbia. It is simply that Serbia does not, unfortunately, have enough democratic traditions so that perhaps some other models that are known in the world to apply. So our idea was to prevent a number of harmful phenomena, in our opinion, from reducing censorship, expressing and allowing the most political mood in Serbia to be expressed. In the first place, and that's what these 28th December elections showed, I'd like to remind you of the turnout in those elections. At that time, just over 50 percent of the people went to the polls, from the electoral body. On the other hand, I would like to remind myself of the second consequence that because of the 5% censorship, those who have not crossed it, hundreds of thousands of votes went to those lists that crossed the 5% censorship, which is why people who have a different political stance than those parties, the lists that entered this parliament, actually don't have their representatives here. If you add up the almost half that hasn't voted and these few hundred thousand, whose political mood is not present in this parliament, we are actually coming to the conclusion that the minority political mood in Serbia is present in this parliament. We had, first of all, that in mind when we proposed this amendment. I don't, especially after consulting and what I heard here, the illusion that he might be adopted, but I have an obligation to say that an attempt to build up a political scene of Serbia is actually a wrong approach. Serbia's political scene can only be aggregated in one process, when social and social layers will be formed again in Serbia that will have their own teams. In this political and social confusion, an attempt to carry out a kind of coercion through the law, I don't think it will do Serbia any good. That is why the SDP proposes this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u749	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u750	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't take part in the debate, so allow me, I'll be really brief, I'll point out the story of the censorship. This is simply not a heretic topic, because if the census were 2%, only two more electoral lists could cross that threshold. So this way, if the census remained 5%, we're looking at the model of previous elections, that's now the topic we can talk about, the number of valid ballots is 3.238.381. In 3% of the census, 3,400,146, 2% of the census was 3,484,609, and at the natural census or threshold, the number of valid ballots would be 3,749,237. Here we often talk about a natural threshold or a natural censorship; what it is, to explain to voters, to those who are uninvited. It is a quantity of the number of valid ballots and those of the total parliamentary quota. Something in total represents this problem. I am not against the fact that the parties of national minorities are using the right to positive discrimination, to have the right to natural censorship and thus ensure that they enter parliament. Something else is the problem, in this way we prefer that true proportional system, and the system in our Law on selecting MPs, I'm not talking about this ratio, it's not really proportional, it's hyperproportional. Now, not citing parties, I'm only talking about their lists, here's what we can say. In previous elections, by applying a proportional system, the parties would win the following number of mandates: first-placed 82, second-placed 52, third 37, fourth 34, 23 and 22. You see that the deviations are minimal, only two electoral lists have plus one, or minus one. If we applied that image to a 3% census, since there was also an uptake for that 3% census, we would have the next situation. The first election list would win 78 seats, and at a censorship of 2% - 76. The second election list, I'm talking about the order, I'm talking about winning mandates, the second list or the DSS would win, in a 3%-50 censorship, and in a 2%-49-term censorship. The third election list would win 35 in a 3% census and 2% - 34 seats in a censorship. The fourth election list in the hierarchy would win 32 seats in a 3% censorship, i.e. in a 2%-31-term censorship. The fifth election list would in the first case win 22 seats, in the second 21. And the sixth election list would win 21 parliamentary seats in both cases. The list of tolerances would win 12 seats and 2% and 3% in censorship, and 2% could still qualify as the Democratic Alternative and win 6 seats. If we even adopted a reduced censorship, we wouldn't favor any outsiders, and the outsider basically remains an outsider. So it's nothing heretic, I don't appeal to the assembly to do it, but I'm saying that would be a minimal shift and maybe it would be one act of goodwill, because, finally, any political opinion is legitimate. When I mentioned a little bit of natural censorship, then it is in our situation at 15099,208. One problem remains, it is quite certain that this change of law will be passed, where natural censorship will be applied to national minority parties, but then we introduce a second rule, a typical proportional system, not Dont's coefficient, which creates one confusion again, because at this very moment in Serbia, three electoral systems are functioning. In Vojvodina, we have this three-way, the second round with three candidates in the majority system, on the local side we have this typical 3 percent proportional system and censorship, and now in the Republic we have 5% and Dont's ratio, which is similar to the proportional system, but it's not that. Thank you again and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u751	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? What is a democratic parliament, there is no opposition, and a debate is under way. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The proposer's representative does not accept. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this seems to us in this part, for the introduction of a so-called natural threshold for parties or so-called party of national minorities and the reduction of censorship, the key amendment and the reason why I remained despite your inaccuracy, most of it in this room, to explain it, above all, hoping that you would accept it, but because of the citizens who can hear it. In fact, we ask that article 81 reads: "Only the election lists that received at least 3% of the total number of voters who voted in the constituency are participating in the allocations." So it's not all that you've added, Section 2 and Section 3 concerning the natural threshold for national minorities for a number of reasons. With this amendment, we achieve two things. The first is the reduction of censorship from 5% to 3%, the reduction of general censorship, and the second is the elimination of discrimination and the granting of much greater rights to one group of citizens compared to another group of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We, starting with the fact that no matter how we define the state of Serbia, represent a civil society, where the citizen is the bearer of sovereignty, must not distinguish between members of the Serb people and members of any national minority. In Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, clearly states that such discrimination cannot and must not be made, because we are all equal before the law and in the same way the law must treat all citizens of Serbia. Some citizens cannot have more rights than others. In that sense, however much, if you want all of us, in one way or another, for any image or for any other reason, trying to court members of national minorities or their political leaders, we must say that they must not have incomparably greater rights than those of the Serb people. And that a list of 15,000 votes cannot be represented in the Serbian Parliament without a list of 150 or 160 thousand votes being represented in the Serbian Parliament. It simply does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic, it is neither moral nor normal. Now someone will say that the most important thing is to accept the fact that we are great Democrats and that in this way we will have a new 20 MPs, but we will have some others who get a much larger number of votes to leave out of the assembly. Why the three percent censorship? First, a 3% censorship because of the fact that we have a local level and that, I would say, in a pretty good way works on the territory... I'd ask an SPS MP to behave and not throw it away, three times I've kept my mouth shut in these three minutes, so I'd ask him to stop acting like that. I'll finish up a little bit more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u753	He's never had more trouble in the O.R. Don't throw it away, there's no reason, I'll warn you when the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u754	I would say one more thing, as far as this 3% censorship is concerned, it's good that we have it, and we don't mind having a smaller number of MPs in this room by one or two, because we think it would be more representative of the will of the Serbian citizens, and you have to propose and bring, whether you're in opposition, whether you're in power. One more thing I would like to point out for the citizens of Serbia; therefore, more conferences have been held today after the afternoon session for journalists, parties and individual parties who say they are representatives of the interests of national minorities. That's what we say in the SRS, because we think we'd best represent them, but those representatives said, some of them even fell out of their mouths, of course, then they straightened out, that three and a half million people from Turkey would vote, and then they said three and a half times more, not three and a half million. That really happened at the conference. Some have said, what are we going to do if Albanians say, and it is understood that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, if they say, now we want to go to elections, how many of their citizens, and how will the Republic Election Commission solve this problem; by means of a sublegal legal act? That's impossible. What step? We think that this is how we solve many problems, that we are essentially solving the key problem of this law, and that is why we are calling on the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment. This brings all citizens of Serbia into an equal position. We also allow those who do not have a large, yet have enough support in the electoral body to be represented here. If you want, I also appeal to those who have enough awareness that in the next election because of their policy they will not have those five, six, seven or nine percent, that they will benefit from a 3% reduction in censorship so that they can be re-presented in this assembly. In any case, I call you once again, because I think this is in accordance with the Constitution, and what is proposed in the initial act of the Amendment and Supplement Law is certainly not in line with our highest legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-24-0.u755	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Meho Omerovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new Article 12a after article 12. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Is anyone answering for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The amendment accepted. That concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before I close today's session, I'd like to inform you that we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. We only have a decision for this agenda point, that we will work until this point is over. The seventh item of the agenda will start tomorrow at 10.00 hours, then I'll set a voting day, and I'll set the voting day for tomorrow, so you have that in mind. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, 235 MPs have been reported. Please determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Meho Omerovic and Zarko Korac. We're continuing our work. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision appointing the deputy secretary of the National Republic of Serbia's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have adopted a proposal for a decision taken by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. If there is no proposal for an explanation, please the parliamentary groups, if there is a request for a hearing. There isn't. Does the proposing representative, MP Petar Cvetkovic, deputy chairman of the Administrative Board, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for the application... And that's it. There's no sign-ins. Is anyone answering for this agenda point? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Since we have completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine today, on Wednesday, February 25, 2004, immediately, at 11:07 p.m., as the Day of Vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search of the motions for decisions, we move on to a decision. Before that, I would like to remind you that, as set out in point 3, the proposal for a decision to put off the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia's Council is in effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The same applies to the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. This avoids an intervention that could produce legal uncertainty and ensure continuity in the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia's authorities. We move on to a decision on the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATES' MEMBER STATES' MEETING DECISION After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision on the amendments made. At point I of the motion for a decision to put off the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia0, MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 101, against 128, seven of the 236 MPs present did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At point II. The motion for a decision to put aside the Decision on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 105, against 127, they did not vote four out of 236 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, in general. For 126, against 108, three of the 237 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to repeal the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. At point I of the motion for a decision to put off the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia, the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109 against 129 of 238 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At point II. The motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The Finance Committee has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 108, against 128, two of the 238 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council, as a whole. For 129 against 109 of 238 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to put aside the Decision on the election of the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby order a break of up to 15.00 hours, in accordance with Article 94. Rules of Procedure, to consult on the appointment of tomorrow's session of the National Assembly. At 3 p.m., we'll continue the work of this session.
