ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7255	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all a good day, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 120 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladimir Zahariev, Nadika Momirov, Vladimir Milankov, Željko Ivanji, Ksenija Milivojevic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Šormaz, Dusan Proroković, Milica Gavrilović, Željko Tomić, Velimir Stanojević, Gašo Knezevic, Dragor Hiber, azasniæ Živodarka Dacin. I would like to inform you that the president of the G17 Group of MPs plus MP Milojub Albianic is elected, and, as deputy president, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 38(3), the representative of the DS - Boris Tadic's parliamentary group for the 9th session of the Second Regular Session, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, was authorised for the SPS MP Rajko Baralic, the DSS Vukosav Tomaševic parliamentary group and the G17 plus Aleksandar Lazarevic parliamentary group. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Milan Veselinović, Igor Bečić, Igor Mirović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Branislav Blažić, Petar Jojić, Milorad Krstin, Milovan Radovanović, Goran Cvetanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Paja Momčov, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Bozidar Koprivica, Stevica Dedjanski, Milan Škrbić, Momir Marković, Veroljub Arsić, Dragan Čolić, Vojislav Milajić and Dragoljub Stamenković. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Snezana Lakicevic - Stojačić withdrew the amendment that she submitted to Article 10. It's a bill of law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who belong to no parliamentary group, three MPs of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Democratic Party, at five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Dragan Koadinovic, the culture minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7256	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on free access to information of public importance is a newspaper in our legal system. The law was developed in co-operation with the OSCE, the Council of Europe and a series of NGOs. Many experiences have been used by countries that have had such a law for decades, as well as by countries in transition. This law is adapted to our reality, with respect for all international standards. The law establishes the right for citizens to access information of public importance, which is available by state and other public authorities, as well as the obligation of the state and other authorities to make information about their work available. What are the reasons for the law? Those reasons could be classified into several groups. The law will contribute, hopefully, to further democratisation of relations in society, strengthening and affirming the principle of public government, democracy of government and freedom of information. Greater control of the state, or state apparatus, will also be possible, so that it can be said that the law also has an anti-corruption character. This law is not media, but it will also have great importance for the journalistic profession, as it will allow accurate and reliable information to be reached in a faster and more efficient way. It should also be said that the adoption of this law and our international obligation, given that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe issued a recommendation to Member States on access to official documents as early as 2002. When we talk about the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, we should say that certain countries have found the right to free access to information of public importance as a special constitutional law, while we find constitutional establishment of this right in the fact that it is part of the constitutional right to freedom of information. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is Article 72(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for the achievement of human and citizen freedoms and rights, as well as Article 72(1), point 6. The constitution, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of public intelligence. The law lays down the concept of information of public importance, determines the process of obtaining information, determines a new, independent and independent state body - a public information trustee. The trustee shall monitor compliance with the public authorities' obligations laid down by this law and shall report to the public and the National Assembly on this; give an initiative to amend the rules in this area; resolve by appeal against public authorities' decisions and carry out other tasks entrusted to him by this law. Upon entry into force of this law, all public authorities will be obliged to designate one or more persons to act as authorised persons on the requirements for free access to information of public importance. Finally, this law will likely be very dynamic and will likely change and supplement over the next period. This tells us the experiences of countries in the environment and other countries in transition that have already passed such laws. The reason, as I said, is that it is a new law in our legal system, and only in practical application of the provisions will we understand what its faults and virtues are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7257	Thank you. At the same time, due to the importance of this law, I welcome observers from OSCE representatives and NGOs on the balcony. I ask if the representatives of the committees want the word, the Committee on Culture and Information - Aleksandar Lazarevic and the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected colleagues from NGOs, I think that this debate is of great importance today in the Assembly, because this law establishes a new right in our legal system and thus we are trying to slowly enter European rights flows into the regulation of relations that have not been regulated in our legal system so far. Information is an oxygen of democracy. She's something without which you can't imagine modern democratic society. If people don't know what's going on in their society, if the actions of those who rule are hidden, it's impossible to take part in these activities. Of course, information is not only necessary for people. She's an important part of every good, useful government. Only a bad government needs secrecy to survive. This enables inefficiencies, waste and corruption to flourish. Let's remind ourselves of the saying of the Sen Nobel laureate who said there was never a hunger in that country that had a democratic form of government and that it had freedom of the press. Information allows people to oversee government activities and is the basis for an open debate on these activities. However, most governments, and ours unfortunately prefer to run their affairs in secret, away from the eyes of the public. Very often official information is treated as its own property, not as something to serve the welfare of people. Freedom of information, including the right to access information in the possession of governmental public bodies, has long been recognised as a fundamental human right protected by international acts, the constitutions of many countries and laws. Many international organisations, such as the UN, the Commonwealth, the Council of Europe, have issued binding documents together with their interpretations on the subject. The bill, as well as many others that have so far been on the agenda of this call for parliament, has been prepared by the former government. With the conclusion that we are very pleased that the law was in front of the MPs, I must say that the competent ministry did not even bother to agree on the reasons set out in this law, but continues to explain that it is very important for the law to be adopted as quickly as it did in the same period as when Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe, that this would mean that we are moving towards Europe in rapid steps. It has been a year and a half since Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe and unfortunately, this law is only on the agenda today. The interest that this law is passed is not recognised at the moment when the previous government and the Democratic Party put it on the agenda of the previous assembly, because then we would already have the law, we would have experience in this matter that is very important. Let me remind you, 57 countries in Europe and in the world have already passed such a law. Only Serbia and Macedonia don't have one. If we adopt it today, if the MPs of the Republic Assembly recognize the interest of this law being passed, at least we won't be the last. That's very important. We know that all the proposals of our laws have been done well, and that's why you didn't have an excessive need to control them, and we thank you for that anyway. We hope that the other laws prepared by our previous government and the DS will soon be before this Parliament and you will recognize the interest that they too will be adopted. Thank you for that. Let's get back to the law itself. The provisions of the law on free access to information of public importance fully comply with the requirements of the Council of Europe and are in line with the recommendation of the Council of Ministers Committee of February 2002 on access to public documents, the principles of which establish and support the right of the public to know, as is the right of every citizen to submit requests to the authorities for information without having to explain why it needs that information. This recommendation enabled many freedom of expression activists in many countries to choose to include the right to access information in the list of basic human rights when drawing up new constitutions. This should certainly also be insisted when adopting a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia and allow for free access to information of public importance, as an independent right, to be explicitly foreseen in the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Discussing this topic, the International Centre against Censorship, Artikal 19, formulated a set of international principles to establish a standard by which anyone can assess whether domestic laws really allow access to official information. But these principles and standards aren't enough. They just need to be the initial chapels and serve all of us who advocate and fight to improve the process of government and governance, and responsibility for the same, as well as strengthening democracy around the world. These nine basic principles have been fully incorporated into this law. The first principle that is terribly important is maximum openness. Freedom of information legislation should be based on maximum openness. Limits must be taxed and applied only to exceptional circumstances. It is up to the authorities to prove that the information they want to conceal falls within the scope of limited exceptions. The second principle is the obligation to publish and implies the obligation to publish key information. The third principle is to promote an open government. Institutions must actively promote an open government. This is very important if we want to achieve the objective of freedom and information legislation. Fourth-limited domain of exceptions. Exceptions should be clearly and closely marked, subject to a strict test of public interest impairment, and proof of a limited exemption regime falls on a public authority and must fulfil three reasons. The information must refer to the legal objective set out in the law, the publication must pose a threat to cause material damage to that objective and the damage must be greater than the public interest in publishing information. Of course, they do not fall under the exception and must not include restrictions that should protect the government from unpleasantness or criticism over bad moves. They can never be justified and the discretionary right to decide on these exceptions cannot be allowed to anyone, not even to the government. Point 5 represents the process of facilitating accessibility. Information requirements must be delivered quickly and fairly and independent surveillance must be ensured, control of all denied requirements. Here we come to a new institute that appears, to the trustee, which is a very important factor of this law, one of the most important segments of the law, whose formation provides an individual with the possibility of complaining to an independent administrative body. It meets the right standards and has the right authority. Its independence should be guaranteed both formally and through the process of appointment. Costs are, as the sixth principle, intended to be appropriate; that one whose information is important should not, for too much cost, give up the demand for information that he cares about. The seventh principle is open meetings. Meetings of sessions and institutions should be open to the public. This is a principle that has not been applied often to us so far and something that should certainly be completely new in the future political life of this country. Openness has an advantage, also a very important principle. Laws that do not comply with the principle of openness should be amended or abolished. It says that all the positive regulations that are now in force in our country, unless they agree with the principles of the public's right to know, must be harmonised after the adoption of this law. The protection of persons who reveal information about violations is principle eight. The violation in this case, article 19, includes acts of contempt of legal obligations, misjudgment, corruption, serious abuse of public status, and serious threats to health, security, human environment. They should enjoy protection if they do so well-meaningly and with reasonable suspicion that the information is correct. Once again, I am pleased to conclude that all these principles are incorporated into the provisions of this law. As I said, and I will repeat, Serbia really has a chance not to be the last country to pass this law. We have a chance to slowly (too slowly and I hope that the Government will see that we must move faster) into the process of integration into the European Union and in the process of harmonising the positive rules with the rules of the Council of Europe. The passing of this law reflects the tendency not to allow a return to political conservativeism and totalitarianism. That is why the Democratic Party's parliamentary group decided to vote for this law, not because it is the law it has proposed and which the previous government has already put in the process, but because it must indeed insist on full openness. What I am sorry, and I must conclude as a fact and in the opening speech to Parliament, is that we have decided unanimously on the Committee on Information and Culture for the Amendment to Article 22 to adopt it. Representatives of all parliamentary groups, with representatives of the Democratic Party, G17 Plus, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the People's Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party, unanimously agreed that Articles 22 should be deleted from points 2 and 3. They refer, according to the law, to the fact that the rulings of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the Republic Public Prosecutor cannot be made public. (President: Are you using another ten minutes? Yes. All MPs were in a unique position that it is the right of the public to know the most important principle and that one who does not receive information can lodge a complaint with the independent body that this law provides for, the trustee. We see no reason to exclude from this the highest state authorities, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. There is no public right and there is no open access to information unless you can get information from the highest authorities of this country, or if they refuse you, you have no opportunity to seek legal protection. There is no interference in the Constitution and to appeal to it at this time is completely irresponsible. We therefore do not understand why the legislator did not accept this amendment, unless there are certain interferences that certain information in the work of the Government cannot be reached. I appeal to all parliamentary groups to think, to read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (Article 10, which says that the work of the state authorities is available to the public), because there is a general guarantee in the Constitution of Serbia for the public of work, and to take advantage of their parliamentary right to vote, regardless of the decision of the Legislative Committee; to remember that they voted on the Committee on Information and Culture, fully aware of the very important decisions that the right to appeal must be given to everyone, in relation to the decision of the state authority. Simply, when voting on this amendment, resisting the legislator's position, because this law will thus have the right form that is really necessary for it to fully live. Of course, this is a law that will surely experience many changes in the coming period. Its application will be very dynamic. The fact is that in the surrounding countries, several times in a year, the provisions of this law change several times. It's just that it's life, and it's definitely going to be something that we're going to face. But you don't need to at first, when adopting this law, to make so much of a limit and make the highest-ranking state functions so far away from ordinary people that you don't even have the right to file a complaint about their refusal of your request to get some information. Because if anything is important in the application of this law, then it is important that Serbia finally gets a chance with it to start from a culture of secrecy the process of public culture, which will be really long and painful, but this law, the truth with more than a year of delay, lays good foundations for it. I hope that, as we have had constructive talks on the Committee on Information and Culture, this debate and the vote on this law will prove that all of us together can recognise the provisions of the laws that lead us forward. None of us want to abuse people's right to know what they're doing, none of us want public information to be hidden from the public. In this way, we will also contribute to the citizens of Serbia, but also to all those who want to get information, using that right, that information and getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7259	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, then Mr Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7260	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on free access to information of public importance by putting into that group of proposals made for the European Union and all observation missions in Belgrade, but the proposal is not sufficiently sincere to convince me that you, as current or former authorities in this country, are really ready to provide free access to information of importance to the public. The law needs this country because this country needs to regulate its behavior by law. The text of the law does not convince me that in your heads you have decided to make the law applicable and to allow Serbian citizens to know what the state authorities are doing. I'm going to point out too many exceptions to the law that convinces me that I'm right when I claim that a lot of things in the bill aren't written so that we who don't exercise power can know what's going on in the country. These restrictions of rights starting with Article 8 already in the first position say that the rights under this law can be subject to the restrictions prescribed by this law if necessary in a democratic society. It is interesting that this is where it should have been said - if necessary in a democratic society. Further – to protect against serious injury of more serious interest based on the Constitution or the law. You can't find a more difficult interest in the Constitution. She's not there. It is in Article 9(1) that you say that authorities will not allow access to information to be exercised if this would endanger the life, health, safety, or any other important benefit of a person. I have to ask you what kind of information could endanger life, health or any other way? How can information about what happened or what exists threaten? How is it that the phenomenon can't be compromised, and the information about the occurrence could be compromised? It's a way of thinking from communist societies. No information could be compromised. It's like closing a session of the National Assembly for the public, so 250 of us here have the right to know something that Serbian citizens cannot know. They sent us here, there are all kinds of people here, and we can know all kinds of things, and the people, who finance all this from taxes, can't know. That's the way it is with this particular detail that some information could jeopardize someone's life, health, safety. Of course, I don't understand how you're going to provide rights to the people regardless of their citizenship. Did you honestly think that you would give information to anyone from the white world? Are we going to have an information service? How many inhabitants are there on the globe? What if they're going to undermine our economic system by asking us for a huge number of information? How are you going to charge the mail? Next, what is the authority's authority to assess whether someone is asking for too many information? What's the definition of a large, small, too large or too small a number of information? Will you once tell a Serbian citizen – you can only ask for three information, or just one, or only two? If you let the authorities judge what is too many information, it is too large for him, especially if he is a bureaucrat and a clerk, and one piece of information he does, because it creates an additional job for him and he will say he's not even paid for it. Now this privacy and other true personalities. You say that the Authority will not allow the right to access information if it would injure the right to privacy, the right to reputation or any other right of persons to whom the requested information is concerned, but why are you now excluding state and political officials, the truth, in addition to one provision, if the information is important in view of the function it performs. Doesn't a political official have the right to protect his privacy, reputation, or any other right? It is an interesting manner of the National Assembly in the DOS Multi-party Assembly, in the DOS majority who have always somehow branded people who deal with politics, people who are MPs and always provide them with some smaller rights, already foreseen for all citizens of Serbia. Whoever carries the state office, whoever carries the political function, has the right to protect his reputation. Either keep no one's reputation in this country, but publish any private information about a person, or keep it safe for everyone. It will turn out that the government is publishing information about the opposition, and you know that the government's authority on its boss, on its boss and on the boss of its boss will never give information. Information that is not guarded by the reputation of politicians is information about opposition politicians and you know it very well, it has become a matter of manners to you. Furthermore, decision-making on request – here already in the view of Article 16(3), you say that the Authority can assess when it is not able, for justified reasons, that it respects the deadline prescribed by law. What is a valid reason to extend someone's 15-day deadline by another 40 days and what is the information that someone will receive 55 days after the search for information and what will help, especially if the media are looking for, if the topic is burning, if the information is current. Information that's two days old no one ever publishes. You're here to allow someone to hold information for 55 days, for his well-known, justified reasons. Then we come to a trustee, whom you have already provided for rights and obligations since your 19th, and only from Article 29. begins a description of the trustees. I should have been a little systematic about this law, because I'm reading the credentials, but I'm still not getting to what the trustee is. In the process in front of the trustee, and later on about the trustee himself, I have objections to Article 22, which is the right to appeal. The institutions, the institutions, the individuals you listed in the exceptions, against which no appeal can be made, are actually the ones who will be asked for information. You are all those from whom information will be requested to release one degree of protection and no appeal can be made. Then why the other ones... (President: Excuse me, will you use another 10 minutes? ) So, why should others also be obliged to respond to complaints, to go to someone who decides on a complaint, if it is not the National Assembly's duty, if it is not the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor. Who else exists in Serbia that matters? With regard to the trustee, why is a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights elected as a trustee in Article 30(2)? When you read trustees' obligations, trustees' powers, these are normal powers that every citizen of Serbia could exercise, and already professionally, if you ask him for a law school, every graduate lawyer with conditions that he meets for the trustee is fully capable of doing the job of the trustee. You should have sent us a photo here, because in your opinion, there are only a few recognised experts in the field of human rights. I assume that some of their representatives are sitting on the balcony upstairs, which is an NGO, possibly some of the former Belgrade University professors who proved himself to be a human rights fighter, and pre-determined to fight Serbia. Why do you now have so many restrictions on selecting trustees, why limit the congregation to decide whether it can be trusted or not? What's with you National Assembly? The voting machine, because the board proposes a trustee who has to meet the requirements of the law, and the Assembly only raises its hands and votes, because before a recognised human rights fighter we all fall to our knees. And then you further humiliate the National Assembly to elect a deputy trustee on a proposal from the trustee. Who is this confidant that he proposes his deputy to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? So whoever he chooses, now he proposes who he chooses as his deputy and the National Assembly cannot choose anyone who is not on the list proposed by the trustee. The National Assembly has limitations in selecting people in such important functions. The restrictions of the National Assembly should be examined in whether they meet the conditions provided for by the deputy trustee and if they have received the required majority in the National Assembly. Make sure you run this country by giving less and less restrictions to the National Assembly. To those who do not listen to the National Assembly, it is not worth choosing their trustees, nor their prosecutors, nor their judges of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. Many of the rights that you are now establishing here will not be used to me when we defeat you in the next election, they do not fit in with democracy. You can wrap it up with the veil of your democratic bloc, but it's like under the lid under which it's boiling. The people's congregation for you is a toy, and the National Assembly will choose a trustee for whom the trustee proposes. If he proposes an MP, the proposal will be rejected. If the president of the National Assembly proposes, the proposal will be rejected. He's not a trustee, he's just an MP, he's just the president of the National Assembly. He's not a trustee, he has no right to propose a deputy trustee. Where's the Information Committee? What the Information Committee didn't rebel against this, but you have a trustee, he already told you who he was going to propose as a deputy trustee, because he shouldn't leave that post if he went abroad to train further, as if he didn't have enough training abroad. To whom he will leave his trust rather than to his trustee whom he has appointed. Not to be too long, we have tried to influence the bill with little amendments. In principle, we are not against this law, not because we are in opposition, but because we will be in power. We'd like you to respect this law as long as you're in power, so you can call on us if we don't respect it. It's not honest enough; it's just the fact that it's been copied from the previous government, which has been burdened with bribery and corruption and has never given anyone any information, it's enough for me to say it's not true. Penalties convince me. What's the penalty for the one who disables the information? From 5,000 to 50,000 dinars; you earn it in half an hour. There are 50,000 dinars in Serbia's oil industry for all of you every hour, when you fail to import dirty oil and redistribute money again, you are such people. What kind of punishment is that, who's gonna answer if they don't give you the information? No, it's all infractions, I think. You didn't predict, of course, you shouldn't have this law to predict, a crime, but you do have a custom and you suggest and establish crimes in other laws, and it didn't occur to you that someone had any guilt, if they denied the information. Just a violation, up to 50,000 dinars, and that's the end of the story. If you are already being watched by the OSCE and the EU, the Council of Europe, America, then at least tell the truth whether we will have access to information from the day of entry into force of this law or not. If we're going to have access to information and if you adopt amendments that only correct the law and more strongly predict the behaviour of state authorities, we're going to vote in favour of this law. If you remain only with this proposal, unchanged and unedited, we will not vote for this law, because this law provides rights on paper, and in practice there will be no rights. Once again, in practice, a man who decides everything will say, "Don't let this train slip off the rails, because you're going to upset the public, because you can cause panic; don't report this death of a police officer guarding a criminal, because you can be upset by the public, because when a criminal attacks you somewhere, you don't know whether it's the police, who is in his security, whether you're being shot at by the police who is in the security of criminals. I thought you stopped it, and the latest events prove that the police put their resources at the disposal of the criminals. Come on, give us that information. How many officers provide criminals in Serbia? Are they carrying police IDs in that security? Do they have special IDs that serve them to let criminals go wherever they want, to transfer whatever they want, to buy or sell whatever they want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7261	National MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and then Mr Aleksandar Lazarevic, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7262	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, as I understand it, guests, observers, the SPS will support the law on the availability of public information. In this area, the first law was passed in 1966 in the United States, Denmark had it in 1970, and Italian legislation created a model that today was widely accepted when these or similar laws were passed. The countries that were recently our former republics or are in our environment mostly adopted similar laws in 2000. France is 1981. It is not true that even today there has been no assumption that public information in Serbia is being made according to social needs, nor when we adopt this law, ideal assumptions will be made that the availability of public information is at the level that everyone is satisfied. But obviously there is an intention and there is some energy invested to create a legal project to help create an environment that will ensure that what is meant by the phenomenon of silence of the administration is prevented, to ensure that citizens cannot be conditioned if they have the need or desire to obtain public information that is significant to them, but at the same time to ensure that citizens are protected by their privacy, to the level guaranteed by their human and any other dignity. There are a few things I want to comment on. The prohibition of discrimination against journalists and public opinion Article 7 – the Authority shall not put any journalist or public opinion in a better position when a number of them have made a request, etc. This will be prescribed, and the practice will be different for a long time, and we all have to try to meet what is prescribed here, with all the respect of people who deal with journalism, there will always be someone who, by discretion or some other right, by the right of interest or by emotion, or by any other basis, will have information before others. The law regulates the procedure if the rights of others are violated, how the matter should be regulated. This is, above all, characteristic of the yellow press and some of the texts that do not hold to reputation, to privacy, to the truth and to everything else that journalism does. Section Two states: the exclusion and restriction of free access to information of public importance – life, health, security, justice, defence of the country, national and public security, the economic well-being of the country and the secret, in Article 9. These days we attended a classic abuse in the release of a delicate information. Mr. Boris Stajkovac, in a way that is below human dignity, informed the public of the name of the baby who was the victim of an inhuman and inhumane procedure. If I didn't hurt her specifically anymore, I just wanted to say that nobody should allow it. Besides not knowing who Boris Staikovac is, I don't know who he represents or whose name he speaks for. Article 9 of this law regulates that this thing must not happen in the future. In view of the 3rd, this member is said to be "if he has seriously endangered the defence of the country, national and public security". I repeat the position I gave on the Committee on Culture and Information. With the internet, every citizen in Serbia can download a document called "The Defence Strategy of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro". What document is more important than the one whose publication could endanger our country's security? I mean, that's what it says here, but our country, as some people like to say, doesn't have a security capacity that's capable of providing the protection of that information that every normal country in this area protects. Not to deal with it, it's not the subject of this law, except this way as I just said. We had in our recent practice the procedure of former National Security Council President, former General Momčal Perisic, that in an inadmissible way he traded information that threatens national security. It is important to prescribe in this area everything necessary to protect such information and sanction the behavior of such people. As for the trustee himself, who is here, as an institution and persons, there are different opinions. Also, I can't agree with what's written in the explanation. What does that mean, someone's face is a confirmed reputation? How is it defined and how is the reputation confirmed? How and by what criteria are other persons who have applied for the trustee eliminated, do they have or do they not have a confirmed reputation? There should be nothing in the law that can't be implemented in a clear way. A confirmed reputation can be our personal feeling toward a person who, by his actions, conduct, professional, human, and in all other ways, leaves such an impression, but cannot stand in law because it cannot be measured. What can't be measured can't even be measured this way as it's written here. In this financial year, no funds are provided for the work of trustees and trustees. Five million dinars are projected for the next, as it says here. So that's how much it takes to form a trustee and a service that needs to ensure the implementation of this law and the functioning of the trustees. It is not and is a lot of money, depending on how the law is implemented, who will be a trustee, how it will enforce the law and whether citizens will benefit from it. It is explained, among other things, that journalists have specific control over the work of state authorities. That can't stand. With all due respect to journalists, I will repeat the thesis from the Committee on Culture and Information – journalists, by the nature of their work, criticise social reality and that is their role. That's what politicians who are in opposition do. Politicians who are in power are tasked with affirming social reality, making the government's effects known to citizens and thus trying to secure trust in the next election cycle. Journalists are important, but they're not government authorities. It's impossible for him to write it in an explanation, even though it says they do it in a specific way. So I can't agree with that, because that's not true. It is very important that journalists do their job properly and then everyone benefits from it. (President: Will you be using another 10 minutes? No, no, no, So, the SPS will support the law. We will review Mrs Stojacic's amendment, which concerns the government, parliament, etc. I subsequently looked into the draft government law for a different solution, and we will agree on this amendment when we declare amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7263	The word has the mandated representative of the G17 plus Aleksandar Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7264	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, today we have before this House a serious law which I hope, on the basis of these discussions I have heard, will be passed. Since some parliamentary groups are having second thoughts, but they are not explicitly against this law, I hope that my discussion in the next 20 minutes will convince them that this law makes sense and a lot of good points and will be adopted unanimously by the National Assembly. Let me, in short, at least in two or three sentences, at first just clarify something that may not be sufficiently precise and clearly explained. So it's completely irrelevant at this point for the citizens of Serbia, I think it's also for the MPs, whether a government in the previous session was the one who had this law in its possession. It is much more important, if we are going to discuss it, why the previous government did not adopt it or why the previous parliament did not adopt it. To be fair, this law is based heavily on the recommendation of the February 2002 Council of Europe. When you read that recommendation, you will see that it is quite clear that this law is no different from what people have recommended, suggested that we establish or adopt. In the end, NGOs participated in this bill. I know that there is fear in Serbia of, I think, two things: missing and NGOs. NGOs have given full engagement in the preparation of this law and I hope they will give it to its realisation as well. Let's leave aside who he is, when, what and why. This law is before you today, before the assembly majority, in front of all parliamentarians and I hope that we will adopt it and give citizens the opportunity to have access to information of public importance. However, it is quite clear that a few weeks ago, when there was a debate on which way and how we should go to the European Union, one of the MPs said that it is irrelevant that we all want to be a part of Europe in principle, it is already important what we do. I totally agree with what we do, what laws we adopt. So let's see what positive practice is somewhere in Europe, where we've lost some time because of well-known events in the past decade. Let's see what are the laws that have proved to be something that is effective, as something that needs citizens of Serbia, as something that makes society much more democratic than it is and let's adopt them, but also implement them. It seems to me that it is much more important for this law not only to be adopted, but to implement it. Not because of what the European Union, the OSCE or any of the other foreign partners or people who want to help us on our way to the European Union, what they say about some laws. It's much more important that if they say - you need this law, we have the answer, that we know we need it. So, that we ourselves are looking for some laws that will allow us to make our society more open and democratic; that our citizens who pay taxes and so full of this country's budget really have the opportunity to control how they have their budget. Well, it is this law on free access to information of public importance that allows citizens to control in the right way how those they have chosen or those who exercise power in their name, that's what they do. So this law isn't just for journalists. It seems to me that much less for the press, and much more for the citizens of this country. He has a pretty anti-corruption basis. So, if you know that someone can freely get information about how and in any way any state body works, you'll be wondering if you'll be working past the knowledge of the public, whether you'll be doing some, perhaps, "misleading" actions and whether you'll avoid the court of the public. Well, of course that's what this company needs. Because I'll remind you, if it was once the authority's instinct to hide the more, to keep the people in the dark and to keep them in power the longer they stay in power, the goal of the modern state is to work transparently, that the public has insight into what it does, that the public can control it and give their judgment in the elections. Of course this public is a key parameter, which is why there is power. Well, the government doesn't exist for itself, it's because of the citizens of Serbia. So, these Serbian citizens are the ones who finally judge how one government works. They'll judge in the right way if they have the right information. So what we need to adopt today, and it's called a law on free access to information of public importance, is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. Now, that shows the democracy of one government. This shows how much you really want to be part of the European Union and how much you care about Serbian citizens. It seems to me that it is very important that one government does not see for itself the danger of democratically opening up the possibility for citizens to control it. And there's a need for a change of consciousness. The change of consciousness implies that officials must understand that they are in the service of citizens above all, that they are doing the work that citizens finally pay for, that citizens are shareholders of the state and that these shareholders of the state have the right to know how they are made available by their means. The more citizens know, the more information available the state authorities have, of course, will provide themselves with democratic legitimacy, and of course such a government will have full support in working on behalf of the people. There are four reasons why this law is passed. It is not the first and basic reason why, if we do not adopt it, we will be among the three last countries in Europe that adopt this law. I will remind you only that Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro do not have the legal rules on the availability of information of public importance. That in itself could mean someone who wants to be a part of Europe, but doesn't have to. But if I tell you that in 57 countries there is this law, that in 33 countries out of these 57 countries, the right to free access to information of public importance is guaranteed, and if I tell you that Bulgaria adopted this law in 2000, Romania 2001, Slovakia 2000, and all these new democracies that have already entered the European Union or are on the threshold of the European Union, or at the threshold of democracy and exit from transition, it can say that we are on the right track that one of the laws concerning Serbian citizens in the right way here is presented and adopted. So we can also use what people have done in some other countries in the meantime, without talking about Western Europe, which, of course, applies such a law more recently. So, I said, there are four reasons. Modern democratic societies rest on the idea that the availability of information is of public importance one of the foundations of democracy, that citizens can effectively control power by knowing the information that the government owns. The other thing, we've already heard it here, it's been said, this law will help journalists and the media, who are in some way control of the work of the state authorities, get to the information faster, that if you don't give them information they can say - okay, but we have a legal representative that will allow us to get that right that we have and realize. And I'm just going to say one example that might be interesting to you - in 1776, the Swedish law on free information had (meaning 1776, I repeat again, because the year is pretty far away) the part that talked about when journalists come to the state authority, they can get information about them for free and immediately. So information will help journalists control how the state authorities work properly, and that information will indeed be crucial to the objectivity of the work of journalists. This means - journalists will deal with investigative journalism, and in doing so, which is very important, and the information they receive will be free, timely and accurate. What we mentioned at the outset – indeed, the Council of Europe's recommendation is a recommendation, not binding, but since 2002 it has established the possibility and establishment of trustees, establishing an option in which you can provide citizens with free access to information of public importance. If we want to be a fact-finding part of Europe, and not just on words, of course we will align our legislation with those laws that have already experienced their application in some countries that have much more modern democracy, or in some countries that, like us, go through transition. Let me deal with this law a little bit more. So the law itself is interesting and, I would allow myself to say, very precise in many of my items. The basic provisions of the law clearly define the subject matter of the law. The law itself lays down the right to free access to information of public importance and the trustee is established. I'll talk about the trustee later. What is this information of public importance? That's the information... and I am not only saying this because of the MPs but because of the public, because it seems to me that the application of this law will be fully effective depending on how the trustee implements the law and how we, through the media, present the need for the implementation of this law to the citizens of Serbia. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes?) Yes. For nothing, we pass these laws that no one will enforce or laws that Serbian citizens will not know about, or that they will not know how they can exercise their rights. I mentioned Bulgaria earlier; I will also tell you that the first year she passed this law was 23,000 requests for information of public importance, and three years later that number was three times higher, so 66,000. This means that citizens through the functioning of this law, through information given to citizens, have allowed themselves to use this right. Information of public importance shall be that of the information available to the state authority, or owned by a state body, which has been created either in service or in connection with the work of the state authority. What are state organs? It's not just the government, as someone here wanted to present it, or focused only on the government's work. They're all government bodies. These are the authorities of the autonomous government, the authorities of local self-government, and organisations entrusted to work on behalf of the state authorities. They are also legal entities that finance and form a state body in the majority part. So there is a wide range of state authorities that exercise power on behalf of citizens and, of course, Serbian citizens have the interest to know information from both the highest authorities and the smallest municipality in Serbia -- how budgets are spent. What are the legal assumptions for the implementation of this law? Whenever it comes to endangering and protecting the health of the population and the environment, citizens are entitled, and the state authorities have an obligation to give them information. So, if it happens, God forbid, some haiarium, if sulphuric acid is spilled, the state authorities have an obligation to give citizens that information. And the state authorities have an obligation to provide them with any other information that is not limited by this law. So everything is available to the public, everything is public, except for some exceptions, and the law clearly defines those exceptions. What can't be the subject of citizens' interest? There are a few things. There are certain restrictions. It is perfectly natural for the public to know, and they will know through manuals and informers, through what the trustee will do to inform the public, which are restrictions. The life, health and safety of a person; in the end, you can say that if you reveal a person's life, let's say that he's an organ associate, that he's performed a plastic surgery, and you want to know where the protected witness is. Of course you'll jeopardize his life. You can't reveal information concerning the judicial proceedings, the verdicts, that you're affecting them in any way. You can't know information that will affect the country's defence, national, public security. That's the law. You can't know information about the possibility to undermine the country's economic system and you can't know the information that's being subdued as business, state or other secrets, which, in accordance with the law, are classified as secrets. Also, the government authority can deny you the right to information already available to citizens in Serbia and the Internet. He can, but he doesn't have to provide you with that information. What the state authority needs to do is to guide you to where the carrier of this information is, to tell you – in that publication and in that "Official Messenger", there you can find that information. What the State Authority can do when it comes to non-information is to assess, and that will be done by the body envisaged by law, by an official, whether someone abuses the right to access information by asking for a photocopy of 3,000 pages of a document, whether several times asking for the same document to be seen, which is all in a certain way the abuse of the rights given to it. What was mentioned here is privacy. Privacy protects citizens and state authorities from providing information about them, but of course privacy is less the function of the state. If your president is ill, the public has a legitimate interest in knowing how he is treated, how sick he is. If the public should also be a voting body, he must know if one of the political parties represents himself as a traditionalist and beats a woman and child at home; of course he must know and have the right, because the function that a politician has makes it impossible for him to be protected as an ordinary citizen, and that is quite clear. What is the procedure in front of the public authorities? As a citizen, I am writing a request that I am forwarding to the Authority of State Authorities; in this request it should be clear what I want from this request to get, what information I need, write my name and last name, the address to which the Authority will later deliver that information to me. The Authority may provide you with information by allowing you to have an insight; if you are illiterate, you can ask the authorities to give you an ordnance, and it will be allowed, or writtenly, by the authorities to provide you with information and that information will be supplied to you, it will be a specific way and how much it will cost. So, the Authority prescribes, and above all, the government, the minimum costs that the state authority will have in the photocopy of the document, when the document is issued and will be delivered to you, as a citizen who seeks, how much these funds are. How is it decided on request? Right now or at the latest in 15 days. So this law is applied immediately and your request is immediately decided. You will not have to wait 15 days, but will be immediately answered; if the Authority is able, it will provide you with the information you are looking for or at the latest within 15 days. The Authority will inform you whether it has information and enables you to see, photocopy and send the information you are looking for, no later than 48 hours if the information is relevant to the protection of the freedom and life of a person, or information concerning the threat or protection of the health of the population and the environment. So, then, the Authority is obliged to fulfil its obligation within 48 hours, and if it cannot, for justified reasons, within 40 days. That's the final, maximum deadline. I said the compensation is determined by the government. These are the necessary costs, but the compensation will be exclusive journalists when they do their job, associations of citizens dealing with the protection of human rights and all persons when information concerns the threat and protection of health and the environment. The trustee, the body protected by the Serbian citizen, should respond within 15 days to a possible complaint and within 30 days learn from the authorities whether or not he has respected everything that is written in the law; if not, order the state authority to fulfil its obligations under this law. I agree, the Committee on Culture and Information was unanimous in the fact that Article 22(2) of this Law excludes the most perpetrators, and of course citizens are interested in the highest state authorities and therefore I urge the Government to accept this amendment and that they, like all other state authorities, have their own persons who will be empowered to provide information that citizens are interested in, they should be available and all in accordance with the law. The choice of creditors – the trustee is elected by this Assembly, the highest legislative body, on a proposal from the Committee on Culture and Information. That trustee needs to have a law degree, to be respected, which means he's engaged in protecting human rights, because this is one of the basic human rights, the right to information. His term of office may cease by saying that one third of the MPs of the Assembly that he is not acting in accordance with the law, that he is unconsciously and unprofessionally doing his job. That way it can be replaced, but it cannot be replaced because the assembly majority will change, so maybe tomorrow there will be another political party in power, so it will change the trustee. The trustee is a state body empowered to work, to be independent in its work and to protect the interests and rights of citizens. As a result, the state body should be independent of politics and therefore clearly states in one of the recommendations that it cannot perform a state function and that it cannot function as a political party. (President: Time. I'll be done in one minute. I'm sorry about the overrun. What's most important to me when it comes to this law, that's how it's going to be implemented. It will be implemented by the trustee having an obligation to issue a manual explaining the rights of citizens; not to mention, due to the time, how many countries and how those manuals have done, how practical they are and how much they allow citizens to know what their rights are before the authorities. Each authority shall, within 30 days of the adoption of this law, authorise one or more persons who will be engaged only in the collection of this data, inform the public, issue an annual informer to inform citizens of what it is doing, how citizens can exercise their rights. After all, it will all be in the form of a report that the commissioner will give to the Assembly once a year, when the fiscal reckoning is over. It will have an obligation for Serbian citizens to report on how the authorities are working, how he works and what money he spent. Thank you for your attention. Let me just say that the G17 Group will support this law, because as we have so far supported all the reform laws, not only in words, but in action, we will do so and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7265	Thank you. The word has been given by the mandated representative of the DSS Vukosav Tomasevic parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7266	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has already been said that the draft law on free access to information of public importance is a new law, so far unknown and non-existent in our practice, a law that is yet to be established, which introduces new rights and freedoms for citizens and new obligations for state authorities into our legal system. Nevertheless, I don't think there's a lot of need to explain myself from this pay phone. I'm the law. For a long time, the law has been discussed, and there is this topic in public and in professional circles. The law is extremely short and concise, but very precise and well explained. Whoever read this argument on one side thought he could understand what it was about, and Mr. Secretary and previous speakers' statements said a lot, so I won't repeat what was heard in the debate. I'm going to try to point out some aspects of this law that are not mentioned, and I'm going to try to be brief. First of all, I have to deny the claim made from this pay phone that this is a law prepared by the previous government, because it's simply not true. This is a law prepared by the current, current government. It is true that the previous government prepared a law with the same name and handed it over to the congregation procedure. In part, the law was in line with what the law envisioned, in a good part it differed, and why the law was not put under discussion in the mandate of the previous government and the previous Assembly, that is the issue to be addressed to the then assembly majority. I am surprised, therefore, that the representative of the then assembly majority objected that the law is now not put on the agenda to the present majority in the Assembly, because it is not logical. This is the government's proposal and this is on the line of election promises from this government and the party I represent. During the constitution of the government and in the campaign, we said that when we came to power, we would pass laws extending the rights and freedoms of citizens, which are being promoted by democracy and strengthened by the institutions in this country. Here's the law. It's the law. We said we'd pass in this assembly and the anti-monopol laws. This law is, by its character, absolutely certain and so, because the monopoly of a social structure, or the authorities of information, is being broken. The government's election promise was that we would pass in this assembly and anti-corruption laws. This law is certainly also anti-corruption, as its application will reduce the possibility of corruption by state authorities and civil servants. We promised to complete a package of media laws and we do so through the adoption of this law. The law on broadcasting was previously mentioned, and this law, although it is not exclusively media, is partly media law, including journalists and media, and thus completes the package of media laws. I think it's less important who proposes this law and we shouldn't argue about it. It's important that the law is here for the MPs, that we adopt it in a few days, and that it will begin to apply. As I understand it through a discussion on the Committee, and here in the Assembly, no political group in the Assembly is against the adoption of this law. So no one claimed we didn't need the law. On the contrary, we all agree that we need the law. There is only disagreement over the concept of law. This was expressed by one parliamentary group in the assembly, the Serbian Radical Party, which submitted a set of amendments asking for a change of laws. It is a different concept of the law, that is, one part of the law, one element of the law, and that is the institution of the trustee. So the Serbian Radical Party proposes that the second-degree issue be resolved another way, not through the trustee institution. That might be possible. We know that there is a practice of countries where there are no trustees, we know that in Europe and in the environment in most countries there is an institution of trustees. At this point, the assembly majority has defined itself as the institution and I think it should be respected and accepted, a team before the argument challenging the institution of the trustee, even if it is as it is expressed in the explanation of the amendments, is very thin and I don't think it stands. Let's try it this way, adopt it like this, try to put the law in place, and the best cantar for whether this solution is good or not will be a practice. If it turns out that this is not a good solution or that any other solution given in the law is not good, we will have no reason not to change such a solution very quickly and that the amendment of this law does not come before the MPs again. Besides, we're a transition country. We are also witnessing in this assembly that very often we have to change the laws, to correct and change some solutions, so we can do so with this law, but to check it first in practice. I think it is also very important that what follows after this law is passed, which is that certain efforts should be made to bring this law to life. So it's not enough to let him out of this assembly and publish in "The Official Messenger". Since it is a new law that extends human and civil rights, and introduces new obligations for state administration, for state authorities and officials, it is certainly necessary to encourage citizens first and foremost to use this right, and then educate them in the exercise of that right. On that side, it is very important that we do not have something that has happened to us with some previous laws, that the deadlines that we set for the constitution of certain bodies are invariably delayed, thus blocking and enforcing the law. So I think it is very important for the trustee to be elected within the time limit and in the way that the law provides, and then to take that first step, to build up his organs and publish this citizens' education manual so that citizens can start using that right. On the other hand, it is necessary to organise several levels of training of civil servants, i.e. civil servants, who will be responsible for providing information to citizens. Finally, this right when it is introduced into the legal system becomes the right of constitutional rank. So, when writing a new constitution, and I guess we're going to be doing it soon, we need to bear in mind that fact and this right that this law puts into a new constitution and raise it to the level of constitutional law. I want to point out something that I said on the Information Committee, which is that in some provisions the law is not the best language, nor logically arranged, so I would pray that, with the technical order, it is partially corrected, it is correct. In Article 8, there is a term of "more difficult interest". That sounds completely unlanguage to me. When do you say "severe interest" and somehow, but the more difficult interest...? In Article 9, you have - a serious threat to the defence of the country or significantly diminished the ability of the state. I don't think the terms "seriously endangered" and "substantiate" can work. What is a serious threat, and what is a non-serious threat? When this moment of serious or important arises, and what is it before it is unserious or irrelevant? Who is it that determines and what instrument? I think it needs to be erased, so let's keep it at risk-- compromised the country's defense or diminished its ability. This is my proposal for a proposed law. Finally, to conclude, the Democratic Party of Serbia is convinced that this law extends human rights, civil rights and freedoms, to make a significant contribution to the democratisation of our society, to bring us closer to modern European flows. We need this law, and MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will support it, and we call on other parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7267	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with a number of MPs, submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party, G17 plus and the Socialist Party of Serbia. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7268	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it is a great pleasure for me to have the opportunity to support this law today, to say so right at the beginning, and to ask the Members of Parliament to do the same, as it may be one of the most important laws that this assembly is discussing, for the reason that, if we take it seriously and apply it, it will in the future be able to significantly change the environment of the society in which we live, we are working and will be able to significantly change the level of human rights that is now being represented. I will remind you that many European countries, therefore, Sweden decades ago, and in 1966, America passed such laws. So it was this American model that later served other countries to take her steps. Many European countries, by passing this law, unlike those of us who are only doing so now, have created a modern state where authorities can control not only official institutions but also citizens themselves. The fact that a citizen finally gets the right to know what he should know is great progress, that in Serbia, in the consciousness of people, which was mostly subservient, changes happen and that citizens realize that they are the only sovereign holders of power, that the government is voluntarily elected and that it is normal for these authorities to ask and to account for them. We are, unfortunately, not a civil society yet, because civil society must be hard to come by, but with the help of this law, we will be on a very good path to becoming one. Of course, each beginning is difficult, and no country is easily disowning its old habits, centuries - old habits, and especially not to rule voluntarily and to decide for itself what is good for the people and what is not. The right to free access to information is derived from those known traditional political and civil rights, particularly established during the civil revolution at the end of the 18th century. That right comes out, I remind you, from the most important documents of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights found that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which includes the right to seek, receive and spread information and ideas by any means and regardless of borders. If I speak so much more of the text of the law itself, then I would like to say a few sentences, but do not slow down any moment's importance of this law and the best intention of the legislator. My remarks relate first of all to Articles 7, 8, 13 and 14. The formulation of Article 7 which speaks of a prohibition of discrimination is only at first sight good, but in practical application can arise difficulties and since the member is short, I will read it to you. It reads: "The government's authority must not put in a better position any journalist or public voice, when several have sent a request, either to him or to him alone before allowing other journalists or to make it possible for the public to have access to information of public importance." Therefore, such an observation could only apply if several journalists simultaneously submitted a request for specific information. Otherwise, this provision cannot be applied, as journalists will receive information in the order they address it, as required by Article 16 of this bill. The remarks also refer to the terminology in Articles 8, 13 and 14 and I will not repeat them because my fellow MPs have repeated it here several times, so it would be really good if some subsequent draft could be carried out in that sense. So, good laws are written in good style, written and devoid of bureaucratic language, in good laws there is not much room for syntagms that will later have to be interpreted, and can thus compromise the law itself. Otherwise, I need to respond to certain objections that have come from the opposition to the bill, especially when it comes to a trustee institute. I think it is very important that there is this particular trustee institute, and not that this job is entrusted to some ministry, the Resoring Ministry of Information, precisely to ensure equal treatment of all those institutions, and also to the government that is presumed to be the basic address where citizens will refer their demands to the right to come to certain information. Also, the chooser's trustee, as we all know here, the Assembly, is even confirming his deputy, so that the remarks that the right of MPs are not currently being taken away, because it's unusual for the Assembly to confirm that the deputy is, in some way, carrying out additional control. It is now said that the MP has some less rights than the Commissioner himself, so the MP cannot propose, and the Commissioner can, but I don't think that's the point. The bottom line is that as MPs, we give up certain opportunities, if we consider it to be good for society in general. So that's the point. If we're giving the trustee here that I'm proposing a deputy, it's not because we have less rights, but because we decided to let him do it. So we'll vote for it. If we don't make that decision, our rights remain with us. So we have the right to delegate our rights when we think it's for the system, for society and for this law and its application, essentially well. It is also good that the trustee will certainly have the right, based on experience from practice, to propose amendments to such a law, because it is very difficult to expect that some law that we adopt based on the experiences of others, rather than on our practical experience, will be immediately in the booze appropriate, which is said from "a" to "sh", and I hope that the trustee will indeed be serious enough and a person of integrity to benefit from this right and the possibilities. So SDP MPs will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7269	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on free access to information of public importance that we are considering today has brought a lot of attention to the public, and we have waited a long time for this law to be before us. One time the government submitted the bill to the previous assembly, however, because of the known circumstances, there was no debate on the law. Meanwhile, the new government and the new minister allegedly repaired the bill, delivered a new one, finally arrived, although we long waited for the minister to return from vacation, first during the election campaign for mayor of Belgrade, and then while this legislative proposal was being passed by assembly committees; we had no opinion of the government either for amendments or any other objections, because the gentlemen who came from the ministry informed us that the minister was on vacation, so perhaps the first information of public importance that we would receive would be that how many ministers there were even vacations. The previous speakers, and the minister himself, who supported this law, did very little, according to my assessment. The minister himself was not prepared to explain this law in detail. It seems to me that he may have only read the argument once, and that in essence, no one has figured it out. The previous speakers talked more about international conventions, the demands of NGOs, the alleged intentions they had, than the very essence of the law. If they had understood the essence and had these beautiful wishes that they had made for us here in the bill of legal provisions that are before us, the SRS would have voted for this law anyway. As you said, it is not disputed that this law is necessary, that it should have been passed much earlier, which is certainly the responsibility of all of you in DOS, but you have failed to convince us that this law will fulfil the basic function that is why we are bringing it, which is to enable citizens of Serbia to access the information they want to come to. This law only allows access to the information the state authority wants to provide you. The information you do not wish to be supplied will not be obtained, but this law also deny you the right to appeal and trustee and ministry and any other way to try to protect your rights. I will now, as long as it allows me, point from member to member to member to the biggest SRS grudges of this law. It is not just a conflict of concepts whether there should be a trustee or not, but also some other fundamental rights, such as the right to appeal, such as the equality of those who have rights under this law and other things. Article 1 to which I have submitted the amendment provides that the exercise of the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities shall establish the role of trustees. The trustee is an independent state body, independent of the exercise of its jurisdiction. This is not good, for one thing, because the function of the trustees is unknown to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or, as the Ministry has told us, is not yet built in. They must already know what will be brought and what will be this new constitution, which the state authorities will have prescribed, but we have been listening to for years. In a few months, there'll be a constitution, so I guess that constitution is going to have everything that you break, by passing the laws now, eventually convalitate. I would warn you that this constitution, which may have certain faults, as long as it exists as such and as long as it is not changed in a constitutional way, you must all respect it. There's been a lot of talk about how the state's apparatus is too bulky; and this government, when elected, has promised to fight the administration, to fight bureaucracy, to reduce the costs of the state's apparatus, and we're witnessing that from law to law, you always predict the formation of a new organ. This time it's not an agency, this time it's a trustee, but it's certainly a new state body that will bring new costs, although it doesn't exactly explain to us exactly what these costs will be, because there will be a trustee, a deputy trustee, a deputy trustee, a trustee, that the trustee will fully decide on the admission of new persons to the professional service he will be running; it's practically not the end at all, and it doesn't even see how far the exact number of persons who will be doing the professional service. In Article 2, Article 1 first defines what information is of public importance. We have nothing against it, it should stand there, but in Article 2, Article 2, paragraph 2, it defines what does not matter whether information is of public importance or not, which are all circumstances that do not affect whether or not some information is of public importance. It is unacceptable to first define in one legal act what information is of public importance, and then to define what information is of public importance. This is completely unnecessary, because once we determine what information is of public importance, then the second attitude is completely unnecessary; that second attitude could have three sides, because we could list a lot of things individually that are not information of public importance. Then, Article 4 defines the legal assumption of legitimate interest and is said to be the legitimate interest of the public to know, from Article 2 of this Act, whenever information available to the authority of the authorities relating to the threat, i.e. protection of the health of the population and the environment – and then exclusion – and if other information available to the authority of the Authority is considered to be justified by the public to know, from Article 2 of this Act, there is, unless the Authority proves otherwise. Perhaps this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would not be questionable if this law also prescribed a procedure in which the Authority will prove that there is no public interest in knowing anything. When I asked the representatives of the Ministry which is the procedure at the meeting of the Information Committee, whether it would be administrative proceedings, litigation, criminal or others we have never heard of, it was said that the Authority would prove that the public's interest in knowledge does not exist in reason. The reasoning of any act, even if it is a judgment of the court, and not of the act of a state body, or of an official in any state body, cannot in any case constitute evidence. You know what proof is. The reasons may only represent the opinion of the individual who draws up a specific act. To make things even worse, we'll come to that later, if the body for its known reasons writes in an explanation that some information has no interest in knowing, there is no right to appeal. Then, Article 9 provides for exclusions and restrictions on free access to information of public importance in certain cases, and says that the Authority will not allow the requesting authority to exercise the right to access information of public importance, provided that it endangers life, health, safety or any other important benefit of a person; it endangers, disrupts or makes it difficult to prevent or detect a criminal offence, etc. The objection to this is the same as to Article 4. If a state authority, which is obliged to provide information that, with such or such, good or bad, perhaps even a very bad and very short explanation, responds to the applicant that information will not be delivered to him because it could endanger someone's life, whoever requested the information has no possibility of appeal to either the trustee or the Ministry. So there's no two-step and, simply, if you're rejected this way, you're not going to get that information in any way. This brings us precisely to the core of the problem with this law, which is that there is absolutely free will of any state authority to assess whether or not it will deliver any information. If he wants to deliver it, he will deliver it, and if he does not want to, he will simply say – there is no public interest in knowing, and that will solve all problems. As a result, it might be better to call this law a law on free access to information of public importance which the state authority wants to deliver to the applicant, because the information it does not wish to deliver to the applicant is not defined in any way. Then, Article 13, which speaks of the abuse of free access to information of public importance, has again been given extremely discretionary powers to state authorities, as it is said that the Authority will not allow the Authority to seek access to information of public importance if the applicant abuses the right to access information of public importance, especially if the request is unreasonable, often when a request for the same or already obtained information is repeated or when too many information is sought. If you do not adopt the amendments to the SRS that we have given to this article, we will come into the situation that there is complete legal uncertainty, because there are very different public authorities, or public authorities, which include other institutions that exercise some authority, public authority, from town to town, from village to village, from area to area; wherever there is a public authority that can request some information from an officer who is authorised to deal with the requested information, he will be able to assess, on the basis of some of his criteria, whether the search engine abuses the right, whether it is too often, so for some state authority, it will be too often if two information is sought monthly. In another city, it may be too often if seven information is sought daily. There is a great dilemma and what is meant by it when it is said that searching is unreasonable. So thousands and thousands of different people, different years, half, education, they're going to judge for themselves, they're going to have a huge discretionary authority to assess what's unreasonable. This and this kind of discretionary powers are incompatible with democracy. If you say that the relationship to the law on the availability of information is the relationship of individual parties to democracy and democracy, I can even agree with that, but whatever you offer, we offer more. That's how it happened with the previous laws, and that's how it is now. So all the rights you're willing to offer the citizens we're also offering, but we, unlike you, say it's small and that citizens should be given more, that they should have all the rights and on equal terms. This is where the equality isn't secured. Article 15, which defines how to submit requests for notification, insight, release of copies and reference, is badly ill-formed. When looking together with Article 18, it is clear that you have given this law the opportunity of every citizen from any part of the globe, a member of a foreign government or a non-governmental organisation, a foreign state, any organisational form that exists on a globe, or an individual, to ask the state authorities in the Republic of Serbia for certain information, in their own language. Article 18, paragraph 4, says, "If the Authority has a document containing the requested information in the language in which the request was submitted, it is required to put the applicant on the screen and to draw up a copy in the language in which the request was submitted." So if our state body has some kind of document, for example. in Chinese, and that state body is, for example, in Surdulica, if a Chinese citizen asks for this document in Chinese, our state body will first have to provide a judicial interpreter to translate the document into its own cost, because it will not be able to charge it, because the fee prescribed in Article 17 is prescribed so that it does not provide for these services, but only postal and photocopy services or, possibly, make the necessary notification in a given format. This will bring our organs, first of all, into an unenviable position, because such opportunities do not exist anywhere in the world, and secondly, they will expose them to enormous costs. The amendment to Article 15 that prevents such a situation, which was submitted by SRS MPs, or Mrs Verica Radeta, was adopted unanimously at the meeting of the Information Committee. I hope that the government will accept this amendment and therefore make this law much better. Article 22 is freely said to be one of the most controversial members of this law, which could well be accepted if the assembly majority would accept those amendments which have been submitted and which have even been accepted at the meeting of the Information Committee. First of all, I have to say that the right to appeal is extremely narrowly defined. Therefore, there is a right to appeal if the Authority refuses to inform the applicant of whether it has a specific information of public importance or is otherwise available to it, to put a document containing the requested information, to issue it or to provide a copy of the document, etc.; if it does not respond within the prescribed time limit; if the conditions for issuing a copy of the document containing the requested information are met by payment of a fee exceeding the amount of the necessary costs of production and copies; if it does not put into consideration the document in accordance with Article 18(1); and if the Authority does not put into consideration a document containing the requested information in the manner provided for in Article 18(4). What is missing from this member of the law is to provide for the right to appeal to the trustee and if the provisions of Article 4 are violated, where the Authority says by its argument that there is no legitimate public interest to know. It would also have to be included in Article 6 relating to the principle of equality, i.e. the rights of this law belong to all under equal conditions. It is not enough that these rights are declared, but it is necessary that if someone thinks they are injured, they have the opportunity to appeal to the trustee for it. The right to appeal for infringement of Article 9 must also be included where the exclusion and restriction of free access to information of public importance is concerned. If this is not done, we will come into a situation where we have another law that will be inadmissible, or that will in practice bring no results. It is also interesting that all those who are considered applicants of this law and who support this law said that they were expecting them, since this is a very dynamic area, as well as in other countries from which this law is prescribed, as is the case. Slovenia, that in the coming period the law is often changed. It is much better to correct the law immediately through the amendments, to accept these suggestions which are essential and against which no concrete argument can be made, except that they have been submitted by someone from the SRS or perhaps by some other parliamentary group who will not support this law. If the benefit of citizens is your first priority and if your goal is to ensure that this law provides you with the availability of information, then you will certainly accept our amendments. Also, Article 2 provides that solutions by the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Constitutional Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor cannot be made public. In this way, the right to appeal is denied when the requested information is denied by the highest state authorities. I guess it's clear that exactly the public's greatest interest exists when it comes to the highest state bodies. If any information is required from the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia refuses to give that information, then perhaps the public's greatest interest is in this particular case, and in this case, the law is denying the right to appeal. What is very important is that the National Assembly, as the National Assembly, will not make those solutions. So, it will not be a solution that we will bring to the session, with a sufficient number of MPs present, nor will it be a solution that will be made by the Government, as a state body, by a collegiate body, nor will it be a solution brought by the Constitutional Court at a council, but rather by solutions that will be made by individual officials, employees of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Even the solutions of the National Assembly cannot be discussed here, for that is neither envisaged nor resolved by the government or by any other authority. If the complaint is filed beyond the provisions of Article 22, it will, in accordance with Article 24, be rejected by the creditors as inadmissible. When it comes to the way trustees are elected, it is also disputed that there is great authority for someone to choose here. These are pretty broad formulations. It is said that the trustee is elected a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights. Article 4 says, "The Commissioner cannot be a person who performs his duties or is employed by another state body or political party." It would have been a much better formulation if it had been said that the work of the trustee could not be done by a person who was employed by a state authority or who had functioned in a political party, for example. in the past five years. So this is how we have the opportunity for high party officials the day before they are elected or on the day of election for the trustee to simply resign to their party functions and say -- here, we'll be neutral from now on. Oh, I guess it's pretty clear there's nothing to it. The trustee resolution procedure was also not regulated in the way it was supposed to be done. It is simply inadmissible that the discharge procedure of the trustees is much more difficult than the choice of creditors. For Article 31(4) provides that the procedure for the resolution of creditors may be initiated on the initiative of one third of the MPs. In this way, the trustee is equated with the President of the Republic, who, however, is elected by citizens by direct secret vote, and is given a much stronger position than for example. The government of the Republic of Serbia. Because, in order to be initiated, it is necessary for the government or individual government minister to sign the motion. It is also disputed that what is provided for the deputy trustee, whose duties are formulated in Article 33, is so that he performs the duties of the trustee in the event of his absence, death, expiry of his term of office, discharge, as well as temporary or permanent prevention of the trustee from exercising his jurisdiction. Because this way we will get one person who will even have immunity (he is scheduled to later), who will have an extremely high salary, because the trustee is equal to the Supreme Court judge, and a similar position will be given to the deputy trustee. And in a regular situation, because we assume that the situation is such that the trustee is healthy, right, present and normal, that this is a normal situation, but in that situation, the deputy trustee will do absolutely nothing. So the job of the deputy trustee is to wait for, God forbid, something to happen to the trustee, so that in that case, until the election of the new trustee, I guess, since it's not foreseen here, it's his function. As you've seen, there are a lot of objections to this law. If you are indeed such Democrats as you claim to be, and if you really want to give the citizens of the Republic of Serbia all the rights that you claim to give them, and which SRS wants you to give them, and this circle of rights that we offer is incomparably greater than the circle of rights that you offer, I urge you to forget about the council, to think carefully about our amendments and to accept most of them and thus make this law much better, and to warn on the other hand the possibility, which will surely come, that in two or three months we will find ourselves in the same place again and that we are wasting time and money on discussing the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7271	The word has an authorised representative, please. Excuse me, just a moment. I've been warned that you've used your 20 minutes. Ah, as a replica -- yes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7272	To use the public's right to know, I would point only to a few segments Mr. Sarovic spoke of. As regards the objection to Article 4, that a very broad discretionary right is laid down, I think it recalls that the DS parliamentary group and I have submitted an amendment that fully deprives this right, leaving it out, so it is added that the intervening case for which this law excludes or restricts the right to access to information. So there's no discretionary right. The right to access information may be denied only if provided for by this law. What is particularly interesting to me, these are objections to Article 22 concerning the possibility of making an appeal. If the SRS had submitted an amendment to Mr Sarovic, which concerns Articles 4 and 6, although I think they are absorbed in the existing Article 22, we would certainly have voted in favour of the amendment. But, the SRS, with respect to the objections made to this speaker, did not submit amendments to that member, at least not to the extent that has been announced here. Only amendments have been submitted to a member concerning the trustee. It is very nice that each and every one of us has a position, which this speaker can make, and I, Mr. Sarovic, as a lawyer, have enormous respect for, but we are not in a position to support his views, because the SRS parliamentary group has not submitted amendments to the gaps that he thinks are large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7273	Thank you. On what basis are you looking for a word? Which member? You've caused the replica, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7274	The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured because it has been said that the SRS has not submitted amendments to which this is being corrected. Yes, it is. In fact, it's hard to see when you go from member to member, but when you look at all our amendments (if I'm not mistaken, we have submitted 29 amendments), you can see that the substance and concept of this law is changing. So, starting with the trustee. If our amendments are adopted, there will be no trustees, so that we cannot submit that amendment, because these jobs will not even be carried out by the trustee. We see this law and this area differently. We believe that there are enough professional people, and certainly also in the ministries, that it is a state body that is provided for by the Constitution and which already exists, and that there is no need to build up public authorities, that no new costs should be drawn to citizens, but simply with what we have to act domestically, to use it in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7275	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradović, and then Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7276	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, today we are discussing a bill on free access to information of public importance. counterpart Baralic has already talked about it, but I will repeat -- SPS MPs believe there is a need for this law to be passed. We believe that the adoption of this law will create a good frame to improve the state of information, primarily to improve the quality of information that is circulating in our media space, that we will finally take one step to make this chaos stop from the information and control that exists; that citizens come to the information that is important to them, because now they have the possibility that both the state authorities and authorities of territorial autonomy, local self-government authorities will get the information that matters to them. This law will be a turning point in relation to the situation so far. In this five-octobaric period, we had one terrible control of information, media blockade and classical media one-brains. The government of the Republic of Serbia's Information Bureau was the authority that took over the prerogatives of state authorities. He appreciated what information was of public importance. Of course, it was absolutely acceptable for DOS parties at the time, and it is hypocritical when we hear from representatives of these parties today for the assembly speaker that this law was to be passed, that there is a lot of time to be lost, that it is important, that it is necessary to develop a democratic society, that it contributes to the development of institutions, to improve the quality of information, and in that period it was not adopted and that it was not something that MPs would talk about, for the simple reason that the situation that existed at that time was absolutely appropriate to them. I think one wrong picture is being created around the media. I'm disappointed the media didn't understand the essence of this law. For example, central state television says -- at last, citizens will be able to know what the salaries of civil servants are. If this is a central issue that Serbian citizens are interested in, they should immediately know what the salaries of civil servants are. It is less important who decided that NATO troops would cross our territory, it is less important for the media to know what was going on on Dorcolo in the area where there is a cemetery of locomotives in downtown Belgrade, but several times there was the possibility of an ecological disaster with huge consequences. It's less important, but it's important to know about wages, and it's in itself saying that even journalists didn't understand the importance of this law. Of course, the law itself is not ideal. There are certain shortcomings, but through amendments, and hopefully also in application, these shortcomings can be addressed, so that in Serbia we too get one law that will provide a legal basis for all citizens who consider that some information, for them significant, should be made public, accessible, exercise their right and get information. I think this law can do one more thing, that it can strike a balance between the two sexes that now exist in the field of information. In fact, we now have a situation where, knowingly and unconsciously, there is a lack of information that is relevant to the public. I deliberately use the formula knowingly or unconsciously, because it can be confirmed in any particular case. The second half of that level is that through the media, unverified, incorrect information is given, that through this information there is a sensationalist approach, so as to get the impression that the goal is to get through the corpses to something that will increase the circulation of newspapers, and that people in this story will be found guilty, not guilty, not in debt, it's less important. A colleague, Baralic, mentioned one case. There are, unfortunately, many recent months, where in certain cases people are anathemised before any state authority gives full information; or representatives of state authorities are self-initiated, giving information that is not correct. The hiding of information was, and it should not be particularly explained, especially in previous years when everything that was related to the Surcin clan had one connotation, that only now, at the time of the trial and at the time of the subsequent mind of individual participants of the event and of certain members of these criminal associations, we would get completely different information and that story would get completely different content. I think the government should accept certain amendments that have been heard on the Committee. I think that, in the future, individual formulations that are part of this law, which are general character and provide a basis for broad interpretation, should simply be sloped. Some colleagues have mentioned some examples, some have not. What does a formulation mean - seriously endangering the country's defence? If the country's defense is compromised, it's compromised, serious or unserious, I don't think there's a place here. Or, what it is more difficult interest; what it means – it is important to reduce the country's ability; it is important or irrelevant, if it is reduced then it is reduced and certain things should be done in relation to it; as well as the formulation - too many information, it is left with subjective interpretation of what it means. I must mention that the trustee institution, as we have heard from the proposings on the parent board, is something that is appropriate to the experience of a certain number of countries; not everyone, the ministry has been doing trustees' jobs, somewhere a trustee exists as an institution and a trustee's position has been built up. The promoter has resorted to this solution. I don't argue with that, but I really don't see any reason why in the description of the quality of a man who's supposed to do a trustee's job, there's a determination that he's a human rights fighter. Namely, who is the one who can determine who is a human rights fighter or what it is that assesses him as successful, or unsuccessful. If we add this information to the famous Lustration Act, which has essentially failed, because it was seen to have a political connotation, I can say, possibly, that through the Lustration Act, there are certain who is a human rights fighter, or who is the one who violated human rights, so he can't be a candidate. The good side of the trustee, or his election, is that the essential MPs will be the initiators of the proposal to elect the trustees, as the proposal for selecting the trustees determines the Committee on Information and Culture. Finally, the masks should be removed and we should not resort to solutions that bring more chaos and confusion than they create order in the field of information. For example, our famous Broadcasting Council was designed to create a legal basis for NGOs to do government work on behalf of the state. You know, when I say NGOs, there are clear lobbys behind these NGOs. I think it's good when the state takes responsibility for certain jobs, by choosing people, by describing the work that that person needs to do, and by knowing who does what and who accounts for it. The SPS parliamentary group considers it too long to elect creditors for seven years. We think you could resort to a different solution. I must say that there is disagreement over his choice, or resolution, in the bill. Namely, it is chosen in one way, and much more difficult conditions set for its resolution. Obviously, during the course of writing this law, the proponent has been wavering at other solutions, as can be seen from the reasoning of this law, because it finds that rules on choice and resolution of creditors rely on the rules on the choice of judges. Whoever follows the election of judges in the Assembly knows that judges are reporting for a public competition, then there is the opinion of the court where they worked earlier, there is an opinion of the Bar Association. These proposals, as well as those who are not, are arriving at the High Council of Justice, so the High Council of Justice determines that, is sending the parent board of the Serbian Parliament, which may and may not have to challenge the proposal, which is being declared by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here we have a proposal from the Committee coming to the Republic Assembly. You can't pull a parallel like that. In the case of a solution, it can be even less subdued under this formulation. In fact, the law stipulates that an initiative to resolve trustees is being launched by a third of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a strong condition. If you look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see in Article 132 that, for example, 50 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can initiate a procedure to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or only 20 MPs can submit a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government or to a single minister. You will admit, if 20 MPs can initiate a procedure to vote non-confidentially, then this condition of a third of the MPs is to initiate a procedure to vote non-confidentially on the trustee's part of the trustee's work. I'm deliberately mentioning this because his job is limited range. It is indisputable that it will have importance in the application of this law and in the area of improving the state of information, but the possibilities of the trustees are limited. What if the state authority says that certain information, again for reasons contained in the law, cannot be delivered at the request of the search engine? He complains to the trustee, and the trustee will realise that this one has not received the requested information, will publish his appeal, but neither can he do anything to make that requested information available and make it public. Except punishment as a measure, the state authorities are not subject to any other punishment, and the punishment, you saw for yourself, is modest. And it is modest in relation to what may be the subject of a requirement or to what may be contained in the formulation of information of public importance. So the punishment remains, but trustee's options are modest. Finally, it is undeniable, and I must say it again, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group thinks it will improve the situation in the field of information with this law. One step seems, but we will see for ourselves, because in the previous period there was a situation, and even in this esteemed home, which could have been the subject of notification and information, and it did not need any journalist's law to write about electoral theft, mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or of stealing the vote to elect the governor of the National Bank. It didn't take the law to write about it. However, I can't remember that one of the journalists wanted to determine the actual situation, let's say, in the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. There is no investigative journalism, with us things are buried, instead of getting information through investigative journalism that will be comprehensive and accessible to the public. I must mention that to this day, we Socialists do not know, nor do we know Serbia's public, and my colleague Ivica Dacic and I have repeatedly sought this information in this esteemed home and on the Security Committee, who, at the time of "Sablje" wrote on behalf of the MUP, in which he had anatised political opponents, in this case, the Socialists and the SRS parliamentary group. We asked multiple times who wrote such statements on behalf of the MUP, and we didn't get an answer. We got an answer from Minister Mihajlovic that the MUP didn't write it. You've got a statement from the M.O.P. That the M.P. didn't write. In his own mind, it speaks best of what state the state was in. Another piece of information is my initial finding that during the DOS, the information bureau was all and all sorts of things in the information area, that the documentation that exists shows that the state of emergency was lifted on the government's proposal and that the basis for the proposal was established on the basis of a report submitted by the Information Bureau, and the report is not in the official documentation and archives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In itself, it says best that we had one system where there was a public talk about freedom of information, the right, transparency, the availability of information, that citizens should know everything, and on the other hand, the job ended quietly as it was politically appropriate. Anyway, I think this law should be passed. He has certain shortcomings. Some of these shortcomings will be corrected by the adoption of amendments, and I think practice will show that there are needs for some other parts of the law to be amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7277	The People's MP Milan Stevovic has the word, and let the MP Marko Krstin be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7278	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the principle of free access to information of public importance is one of the basic principles of national legislation, but this area, we can freely say, regulate, and the provisions of international law. When we look at this area from the aspect of national rights, we must say that the basis of this right is certainly in the national constitutions, including the Constitution of our country. If that's the case, we have to say the next fact. We have rightly committed ourselves to regulating this matter with a special law, but we suggest that this proposal be processed, processed and improved in certain institutes. I would briefly refer to the details of this law, which is Article 4, in terms of legitimate interest. As regards Article 1, I fully agree with the legitimate interest, and with regard to the part of Article 4 relating to Article 2, I disagree on the formulation. It is an assumption that there is an interest in accessing information of public importance, but that assumption is, legally speaking, a dwindling assumption. The burden of proving the existence of public interest is in this case on the authorities. I must say one fact: it is a public interest of one general right, but the launch and implementation of this general right is given in the jurisdiction of a particular legal or physical person, therefore, from the aspect of the right – an individual. I don't see why the state has a burden of proof and that individual has no obligation to prove legal interest. In any procedure, whether it is administrative, which is otherwise conducted here, or court proceedings, there is this legitimate interest and there is no procedure if that interest is questioned. Therefore, there is no further action, no further action unless consensus is reached, or unless there is evidence of this legal interest. If we formulate Article 5 as it's written -- "everyone has the right to be told," it's a very broad formulation. It could be said in a much more concrete way and in a more detailed way, precisely because I said that access to information is a constitutional right, and in particular that this right is being drawn from this law. Therefore, we can define that everyone has a right, but we must specify that the constitution of one state applies to the state union, to the people who live there, or to the citizens of that community. Therefore, if we were to observe the link between Articles 5 and 6 it should nevertheless be limited in terms of citizenship, because cases will happen to us that foreign states have the right to launch certain procedures, and I see all of this as one procedure for accessing public information. I think here, if we're already talking about law and citizenship, we need to take care of the principle of reciprocity. So if, in international law and in the countries of the European Union, to which we are very often called, a citizen of our community is allowed to have this right, then we, on the same condition, therefore reciprocally, will allow foreign citizens this right, but something must stand in this legal text. Article 8, which speaks of a restriction on the right, says paragraph 2: "No provision of this law must be interpreted in a way that would lead to the abolition of any right which this law recognises or to its restriction to a greater extent than that prescribed in Article 1, paragraph 1. "This is a legally very careless formulation. The law cannot say how the provisions of this law will be interpreted. So interpretation can be authentic, doctrinal, and already all other interpretations. He can't speak the legal text of how we're going to interpret this law, because someone is going to give a historical legal review, some scientific review, but in the application of this law, we have an obligation to apply the law, and we have no obligation to interpret it. The interpretation of the law is not the same as the application of the law. When we talk about Article 9, an expression has also been used that I cannot say is completely accurate and I do not know what it means, which is that the Authority will not allow the requesting authority to exercise the right to access information of public importance, if it would put it at risk, make it difficult to prevent or detect a criminal offence, to charge a criminal offence, to conduct a criminal case, to conduct a judicial procedure, to execute a sentence or to carry out any other legal procedure. All right, I agree, but it goes on - or fair treatment. I don't know what this is about -- fair treatment, because if we've counted all of these procedures, then from the context of all of this, we're going to get a word out -- fair treatment. When we analyse Article 13 we are talking about abuse of free access to information of public importance; it is said that the Authority will not allow the Authority to seek access to information of public importance if the applicant abuses the right to access information of public importance, especially if the request is unreasonable, often, etc., to an excessive number of information. If we have already said that the Authority will not allow the applicant, if the abuse of the right to access is proved, there should be a point and nothing further should be listed. Everything else is questioning the Institute of Abuse of the right to access information. Who will give an interpretation of what is unreasonable, what is often and what is too many information? I would further refer to Article 14 which speaks of privacy and where it is said: "The power of the government will not allow the right to access information of public importance if it would injure the right to privacy, the right to reputation or any other right of the person to whom the requested information is personal, unless: 1) if the person has agreed to this... "We must go from reality. It may occur that a person has given consent to publish certain information concerning a person’s personal right or interest or privacy, but it may also endanger someone else who may be involved in this privacy. So maybe there'd be a place to rephrase this in some way. If we are talking about a procedure before the authorities, we must say and agree in full that the applicant submits to the Authority in writing this request for access to information of public importance, but cannot fully agree with the formulation of the position of the 6th member where it is said - and based on the oral request of the applicant to be made known in the minutes. This formulation has been taken over by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is otherwise governed by the procedure in this matter. I believe that practice will be very difficult to accept, that it will encounter great difficulties, above all to enable the entry into the record, the dictatorship in the record and the rest. So it's enough for one who has some kind of legal interest to file one written request to explain all this, and that would be the end of the story. This leaves one problematic legal situation. As for the trustee, I have a few things to say. So the general view of things is that it creates a danger of red tape. This is about establishing a new institute, a trustee, a deputy, a service of their own; all of these are paid people, paid institutions, and we have to agree on how and how, but since we've established ourselves, we've been opening new jobs only within the administration. When it comes to the choice of trustees, a lot has been said and I agree completely with the formulation that it is a person that has been proven to protect and improve human rights, but I would refer to another formulation. So it's that that face must have completed law school and ten years of work experience. We need to analyze this proposal in detail and see that the trustee, in the second part, is talking about it, has the salary of the Supreme Court judge. If so, the Supreme Court judge must have passed a judicial exam, a certain year of internship, that he was elected to the post, and on the other hand, a trustee, who has the same salary as he, who also decides in the second degree under the law of appeal, has no obligation to have a legal exam. I would be pleased to see that this formulation of a passed judicial exam is not introduced, but to make a commitment that such a person must have a state examination, and these are all those persons who have applied the General Administrative Procedure Act in their practice. This is how we're going to get into a situation where we have an elected trustee who may never have decided by the right of appeal and may never have decided in the administrative procedure, but has proven himself to protect his rights. Here, however, there must be little channelling and expertise and objectivity, and some personal image that the trustee must have. On the other hand, I have to say, if we're talking about the Supreme Court's salary and the trustee's salary, it falls into the eyes and the fact that the Supreme Court judge is an officer who took an oath in front of this high house. I think the introduction of an oath for the trustee would also be one of the conditions and guarantees that he will do this job in a safe, honorable and fair manner, as the Assembly asks him to. I don't agree with the solution that the trustee is elected for seven years, because the possibility of him being elected once more, and that's a total of 14 years. If we look at the average working age, it's a third of the working century, and there's no better job than this. So, a third of the working century is gonna be spent in this place. I don't think there are any merits among us, and that after four years, refreshments can bear fruit, because whoever ensnared in this country, it was very difficult for him to jump out of that chair, to leave it to someone else, and it was all at the expense of the general interests of the citizens. In the end, I'd just like to refer to the damages procedure. It is said that the Authority is responsible for the damage caused by the fact that the public vote could not publish the information after it was unjustly denied and limited the right to access information of public importance under Article 5 of this Law, i.e. by putting a journalist or a public vote in a better position contrary to the provisions of Article 7 of this Law. It's all right and it's all good writing, but I'm just looking at the aspect of practice, so what is this going to look like in practice? It's a charge of immaterial damage. I'm asking the question, how is there going to be a claim for compensation for this damage, who can assess and what is the system of skill, not to mention the individual, the group, which will assess how much damage is expressed in money by not being notified to the public. We need to take a little more care of all this. For the same reason, I suggest that the amendments to this law be adopted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7279	The People's Messenger Marko Krstin has the word, and the People's Messenger, Milovan Radovanovic, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7280	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in front of a law that fills in everything a void and represents a first step towards talking about opening up a state and democratisation. The power of information is the foundation of every government, and absolute authority over information is the basis of dictatorship. This law ensures that a large part of the control of the work of the state authorities is achieved through direct public insight into what they are doing. I'm glad we're in a debate that's really at a high level of expertise that allows us to discuss each one of these solutions, so I'm going to agree with my colleagues about something and I'm not going to do anything about it. I always like to come from our Constitution, Article 48. – a citizen has the right to publicly criticise the work of state and other authorities, to submit to them performances, petitions, proposals and to receive a reply if requested. A citizen cannot be called on to be held accountable or to suffer other harmful consequences for the positions expressed in criticism, performance, petition and proposal unless he has done so. Freedom of conscience, thoughts, and public expression is guaranteed. The freedom of the press and other kinds of information is guaranteed. They're members of 45th and 46th. So the state of Serbia has long had a legal basis to settle this issue. Unfortunately, it only does so now and because it has a legal basis in its constitution has no reason to court anyone, it only settles essential issues, whether democratisation of the state is a little late, but perhaps now is the right time. So, I'm contesting that it's about courtship. As far as the opinions of the Council of Europe are concerned, we belong to this Council of Europe and I guess it is normal to accept the principles on which this Council of Europe is based and simply as something of our own to do what is in accordance with these principles. As regards certain provisions of the law, only the existence of a trustee for information is of particular importance because it is an independent state body which is independent in the exercise of its jurisdiction. The legal formulation itself could and may have to be filled in with factual content in the law enforcement process. Therefore, the formulation itself will not ensure that it is indeed so if the function is not carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law and the constitutional principles for the performance and other public functions. The good side of this law, that's Article 2, is that it covers all the sources of information and all the carriers of information. In particular, as far as the authorities are concerned, its comprehensiveness is interesting. It covers all state authorities, but also locations the application of other legal entities that are financed in general or in part from the state register. This means all public enterprises, all health institutions, all educational institutions financed by state money. There's a wide range of faces that are going to be exposed to this control, which is very important. The legitimate interest I have seen in this debate is indeed this question of justifiable interest that the public knows something or doesn't know. Article 4 has been asked as a question of conjecture. It seems to me that this assumption is set in the right direction, and in that sense I would disagree with my predecessor if she hadn't been set in the right direction. If there is any assumption that there is a legitimate interest, it could prove either a party seeking something or a state body. The legislator would have decided here to be a public authority's obligation to verify and prove it. So proof of conjecture is not the burden of the applicant's demands. We protect the applicant here, protect the citizens, protect the one who's looking for something. That's why we're forcing the state authority to prove it if that interest doesn't exist and that it contests it. So the citizen says - I have an interest, and you prove I don't have one. In my opinion, it's an improvement in the position of legal addresses, I think vice versa, and I think it strengthens the position of citizens and those who want to control the state authorities. The principle of equality is very important and I think that the objections relating to the possibility of misuse of information by foreign citizens, NGOs, etc. They would not stand, because there are a number of restrictions set out in this law, which are precisely related to individual data, so that the authorities that have this task will probably consider these limitations. There won't be any bigger problems in my opinion. It is a very important principle set out in Article 7 which provides for a ban on the granting of any journalist or public note, which is bound by the obligation to compensate for damages if an infringement of that principle has been denied the right to information. It is a very interesting Article 8 under which the limitation of the rights under this law can be subject to the prescribed provisions, i.e. the norms of this law. This exceptionalness, unfortunately, has not been fully implemented and as a lawyer, I would have some criticism, where I can indeed be on the side of those who say that the principle of exception is not interpreted restrictively either in application or in the making of a legal norm. In particular, this is about Article 9. Article 9, in my opinion, provides for exceptions, is inconclusive and is not consistent with legal norms which determine the matter of disclosure of information and their availability in court proceedings and in other proceedings before the state authorities. I must tell you that it seems that the processor of this law did not have in mind the texts of other laws, the systemic solutions that exist in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Law on the Prosecution and other regulations which are already governed by these issues, so I consider point 2) to be too broad, meaning, the execution of judgment or enforcement of penalties. I don't know what the problem was to limit the notification of a verdict being carried out. There are no such provisions in the executive procedure. I don't see what kind of slow that would be. Also, as far as other procedures are concerned, say the ZUP, which is of interest to limit this, except for what is not already being restricted there. I don't see any reason here. The conduct of a court case, all restrictions related to the conduct of a court case, have already been laid down by the Court Act. I don't think that should be done this way. We have a lot of inaccurate formulas under point 5 that I think should be really precise. This refers to the predominance, the consequences of the interests protected by law, etc. This -- "state, business or other secret", it's quite clear and it's being protected by certain regulations, but I think it should be kept extensive, or too broad, formulations if we already consider the restrictions an exception. It's kind of out of line with the legal idea of things. I find it very important that what is provided for in Article 11, which is to dispute the information published by the authorities. This member orders the state authorities to monitor what is published and to correct if something is not true. That's quite significant. I think as far as Article 13 is concerned, it's gone back to the breadth of the exceptions. I note that the restriction by law has been established as an exception. It says – it will refuse if the search is unreasonable, often, when the request is repeated or when too many information is sought. I think that this could be arranged more precisely, and that basically derogates this Article 8, if we stay so wide, where we say – extremely. It's not something we can't fix without. Article 16 provides for a deadline of 40 days. As a lawyer, I think that deadline is too long, because the time for reporting information is an essential element of the value of information. If we tell the information after some time, it doesn't matter for certain things. It is a very important principle that the whole process of insight into the document is free of charge, meaning that the possibility of irregularities is excluded, or discrimination in principle – you have money, you have no money. With regard to the right to appeal, it is Article 22, I think that the objections are quite justified here and can be removed by putting two points in point (1) behind the word "refuse" in paragraph 1. Then you would get what is actually proposed here to protect the overall process of giving and eventually refusing to provide information. As far as the deputy trustees are concerned, I think the position of the 5th member of the 33rd is too high. That someone replaces someone comes from the very word "expensive," and this formula practically makes it impossible for the deputy to do something else. The D.A.'s deputy is doing the prosecution's work, because it's been authorized by the D.A.'s office. It's the same way a deputy trustee would do business when he's authorized, and if we put someone on the job only when someone, God forbid, dies, then we really limit it to it. I don't think that's necessary. I find the current of the law to be very important to me, Article 39. According to the member, the state authorities are obliged to inform the public of certain matters, and so far they have not been required, which is undoubtedly the essential merit of this law, as citizens and means of information will have information without special demand. I suggest, in front of G17 plus, that this law be passed. I believe that it is an initial but crucial step in democratisation of society and the exercise of constitutional rights, with certain changes that are possible both in walking and in application and in the next debate. He could be a good basis to settle this issue that has been unsettled so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7281	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7282	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the essence of the draft law on free access to information of public importance, which should not be disputed, is the proposal for a proposal to make available information of public importance to all interested persons, i.e. applicants, as provided for by the draft law in Article 6. In my view, as an SRS MP, it is extremely problematic that what is set out in Article 6, which is that the right to seek information and to have information should have all citizens on this planet, all persons on this planet, not just citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but citizens of any country in this world. This may not be disputed, although I do believe that, if the principle of reciprocity were applied, our citizen in that country, the searcher of information of public importance, also has the right to be made available to him the information he seeks. In addition to the fact that the bill itself has not been so good, the least said, the structure of the provisions, the termological terms, the inaccuracy and the wrong terms, such as in Article 3, where it is said that a public authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority of Authorities) may be and may be: a state body, a territorial autonomy body, a local self-government body, as well as an organisation entrusted with the exercise of public authority (hereinafter referred to as the State Authority). The authority of local self-government cannot be a state body. The body of local self-government is the authority of local self-government and cannot now be called by any law, nor by this law, to change the meaning and name of any authority of government and to be called state bodies. Also, in Article 8, although this is already mentioned here, it is a clumsy and awkward term, at least in this legislative and legal terminology, that determines "the more difficult importance and interest based on the constitution or the law". It can be more important than the interest of the state. Furthermore, it seems to me that the whole intention of the promoter to make information available to Serbian citizens or, as the bill says, to the citizens of any country in the world is about to tear down the provision of Article 13. It's a bill of law. Here my suspicion is based and I find it justified, given the often disrespect of the law, as well as the country's constitution, abuse of official position by individuals and inaction by state authorities. Article 13 itself provides for cases where the Authority does not make available information to the applicant, so it states, among other things: in the event that the applicant abuses access to information of public importance, especially if the request is unreasonable, often, when the request for the same or already received information is repeated or when an excessive number of information is sought. Am I now, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and as a national MP, unable to obtain information if I often ask for information, because I want to know, and I believe it is of interest to the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what happened to the case of the murder of Guard soldiers, whether there was a foreign intelligence service, CIA, Hague investigators or soldiers involved. Whether I am often asking, and that is why the authority or trustee rejects my request for the availability of information of public importance, if I want to know how there has been privatisation of certain businesses in Serbia, abuse of the privatisation of cementers: Beocin, Novi Popovac, Kosjerić; how three sugars have been sold for three euros; how there has been 15m euros in fees for the sale of DIN and DIV; how there has really been a sugar affair, exports and imports of sugar; how has it been to embezzle a large amount of money in the case of Zoran Janjusevic and Nemanje Kolesar, who is behind it, whether it really stands DS, what we consider to be in the SRS. Would that be often a request for information, so that would be a reason for the authority or the trustee to reject my request? If I am asking, as I was doing behind this speaker, to allow me to be able to make available information about the many abuses of certain people from G17 plus, I am specifically thinking of Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic, how Dinkic has done to form the National Savings Centre, how it works, how it has been recapitalisation done, and how it is now in private hands, and all this is done with state money from foreign and dinar reserves, is that why I am being denied the availability of this information, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 of this proposal? Or, if I look for information about the energy lobby and all the abuses of exports and imports of electricity, oil and oil derivatives? We in the SRS believe that it is not for the trustee to be predicted, but for the tasks and powers provided for by this bill to target the trustee to the competent ministry, in this case, the Ministry of Culture. Article 22 mentions the right to appeal. In these smudges, whether it is necessary to grant the right to appeal or not, it is said: "against the solutions of the National Assembly". Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly does not make a solution. Article 130. The Rules of Procedure are listed acts that the National Assembly can bring. There is no solution between them. The solution is an individual legal act. Eventually, a solution in the National Assembly can be made by the President of the National Assembly, but not by the National Assembly as a legislative body. Furthermore, the structure of the provisions of the proposal of the 1st member mentions the trustee and points out that the trustee decides in another degree, and his status and what he is authorised to do is mentioned only from Article 29. It's a bill of law. I think that should be the other way around, if there should be a trustee institute in this bill at all. We of the SRS believe that this institute should not be planned at all. With this bill, you also enter into constitutional jurisdiction. No one has mentioned this question so far, so I'm bringing myself into a little dilemma -- am I going to be right when I say this is constitutional jurisdiction, and you have passed that constitutional jurisdiction on to one legal act, which is by predicting criminal-legal immunity in Article 32 for the trustee. Criminal and legal immunity is foreseen for MPs, for the President of the Republic, for members of the Government, and all of this in Articles 77, 91 and 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, even if the law could establish criminal and legal immunity for anyone, and in this case for the trustee, you give him a higher degree of criminal and legal immunity than the MPs and the President of the Republic and members of the Government enjoy. In this case, for example, for everything that someone allegedly did anywhere, the trustee can't answer if it's about his authority and doing the jobs he's in charge of. And the MP cannot answer for anything he says about this speaker; outside of this National Assembly he may be called to account. This means that you have a higher degree of criminal-legal immunity in this case provided for the trustee, and I believe that this is contrary to the constitutional category, to the principles. And, one more thing, this bill provides that the trustee, when it comes to criminal acts, cannot be detained, regardless of the crime. Unlike a MP who cannot be detained when it comes to any criminal offence for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than five years, the trustee cannot be detained, regardless of the sentence and the length of the prison sentence. This law has 57 countries, but I'm sure, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that such a law... We in the Serbian Radical Party believe that a law on free access to information of public importance should be passed, but not as you have suggested. Of course, we have submitted twenty and more amendments to this bill and we hope that some will be adopted. In that case, this bill would be acceptable for us from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7283	Please, just a moment, you asked for a word about the Rules of Procedure. Since we don't have enough MPs, but only 73, I'll give you my word right after the break. You're the first. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the 9th item of the agenda - a bill on free access to information of public importance. Before we start working, I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that we have enough MPs to continue our work. The People's Messenger Zoran Alimpic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. I'm sorry, first of all, about the Rules of Procedure, the president of the G17 parliamentary group plus Milojub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm demonstrating a breach of Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure - MPs are obliged to address one another with respect and attitude 3. - you are not allowed to use offensive expressions. It happens that, from time to time, some MP, as it happened at 1400 hours, quite arbitraryly, misrepresents something at the expense of G17 plus, just like the authority, etc., and about the G17 plus leaders. If you didn't hear correctly this morning, I'm the president of the G17 Plus Group and I'm not going to allow that situation, because G17 Plus is a tough nut, and you know about that Negosheva -- it's a tough nut of weird, it doesn't break it, and it breaks its teeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7286	Thank you. The quote is not correct. Here is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zoran Alimpic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared. Is Mr. Alimpic here? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Verica Radet, and let the People's Messenger Svetlana Stojanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7287	Ladies and gentlemen, all the MPs who participated in the debate on the draft law on free access to information of public importance agreed in one, which is that Serbia really needs this law, that this matter should be regulated by law. Serbian radicals, however, stressed with their statements that according to the concept and attitude of the Serbian Radical Party, this matter is not regulated in a proper, good way. I would say that this bill is another poor attempt by the Serbian government, because the fact that when the law is proposed, not only this law but other laws, the government acts as a government in an attempt. The SRS MPs also warned the previous government that it was not good to prescribe laws. It is okay that we need to comply with our laws of the EU, but it is not good to literally copy, or translate laws, first of all because we have certain specificities, we have already built a legal system, and besides, when literally translate laws, then what happened in this law happens is stupid translations, silly expressions, what cannot endure one law. The legal standard must be clear, brief and concise. Legal norm can't be descriptive, narrative, and that's the case in this law. In addition, even representatives of parties who have unconditionally said they accept and will vote for this law have had a number of objections to the form of the law, and the form is so bad that it affects many the essence of the law. The remark was even given to those who, they say, are a tough nut, a fruit of wonders. When it comes to accessing information of public importance, in the last four years, since they were in Serbia. transparent governments on the political scene, everything happens the opposite of that and everything happens in secret. And so far they've been completely confused, there's no telling who has access to information, no matter what information is of public importance, which is to be protected. Simply, the government and other authorities acted the way they suit each other, or as they correspond to someone from the West who asked for such information or information. Of course, the lack of attention when accessing information of public importance can certainly question the country's security and undermine the country's economic stability, which is also what we were talking about today. But regardless of the existence of this law, such or otherwise arranged, it is a question of how much we can protect information that is relevant to the security of the country, if we know that for four years in our ministries and in key places, as ministers, which are yellow-headed from the white world, who have no idea of their legal order or their legal system, let alone about our and conditions in which Serbia and our legal order are located. The word here is that this law is some kind of anti-corruption law. I really wonder how this law prevents corruption. The minister's not here. He just said it was anti-corruption law, but he didn't convince me how this law could prevent corruption. I think even the opposite, because the way certain terms are defined provides broad opportunities, primarily abuses, and then the possibility of corruption in certain bodies. It is interesting that five million dinars should be singled out by the end of this year for the application of this law, as explained by the bill, but also said that these funds are not foreseen in the budget. Now I'm wondering if maybe the information that this law says should be available will not be the subject of purchase? That would be very bad, even dangerous for the country of Serbia. There is also a concern that this law in the image of a trustee will bring about a new Bebu Popovic, and we all know what the impact of this one man on the media was on access to information, on whether or not some information bothers the public. I suppose you remember, we Serbian radicals did not and will not forget, when Professor Vojislav Seselj said in January 2003 that he was being charged in Belgrade, that Carla del Ponte was waiting to sign the indictment and also said that in Serbia, the SS units that are there to catch Sljivancanin and Ratko Mladic. At that time, Beba Popovic and Dusan Mihajlovic said they should file criminal charges against Vojislav Seselj because he was harassing the public with his statements. Very soon afterwards, it really proved true and one and other information, against Vojislav Seselj the indictment was filed, the SAS arrested Veselin Sljivancanin, the public of Serbia knows, but nothing happened to the one who denied it, there was no responsibility. Under what the law also provides, no responsibility will be borne by any trustee who allows himself to interpret whether or not information is disturbing the public. I also think that this law will not have an excessively positive impact on the media in Serbia. And now resourceful journalists come up with important information, information that government representatives are trying to hide. You've seen an interesting article in the National Daily List these days where we could read a complete menu that was served in honor of Carla del Ponte at the Federation Palace. Boris Tadic and other government leaders in Serbia attended the lunch. Obviously, it was the intention to hide these large amounts of pheasant and other savages, but the journalist who was able to get that information, even though he didn't have this law that you are now offering. In particular, I will say only a few things about some members of this law, given that we of the SRS have submitted a number of amendments with a really good intention that the government representative, who is not here, and representatives of the assembly majority, are seriously considering our amendments, to see that these are really amendments aimed at correcting this law so that it is actually applicable. Not to get into a situation that is common in this House - you have no idea of accepting an amendment submitted by an SRS MP. We tell you every time that you don't pass a law like this, that you don't pass an inapplicable law. You deafen that and after a month, two or three show up with amendments and amendments to the law, and in these amendments and additions all the amendments we offer at the time of the law's adoption are contained. Try to avoid this law, accept amendments offered by the Serbian Radical Party and, believe me, with these amendments, the law will make sense. Our principled opposition, expressed through the amendment, or through several amendments, concerns establishing a trustee for information of public importance. We feel that this is completely unnecessary because it is again the establishment of a new para-state body, unnecessary budget spending, and we have a competent ministry and it is certainly possible that one service will be formed within that ministry that will be in charge of the application of this law and that will certainly be able to do all that the law provides. Although we did not go individually, one of our colleagues said during the debate that the MPs of the SRS did not have a unique position, which is not true. We have a unique position and our unique view is that this function of trustees should not be established. For this reason, we have not individually tabled amendments to these members that regulate the choice, position and jurisdiction of the trustees, but only proposed to delete those members. Nevertheless, I must mention the position of Article 2 of Article 30, which says that a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights is elected for the trustee. My dear colleagues, this is just amazing! We all know perfectly, and you who won't admit it know that NGOs and exhibits of NGOs in the image of Biljana Vuco, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Natasa Kandic (it's the one who beat Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija), that all of them are actually the exhibits of some organisations outside Serbia that finance them and that everything they do goes against the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. We now condition the choice of trustees with this reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights. This is absolutely inadmissible, even if this variant remains that you will have a trustee and that you will not give these jobs to the competent ministry, which, according to the Serbian Radical Party's position, would be only right. I don't have enough time to talk about all the members we have put amendments to, but we will certainly try to convince you that what we propose is in the interest of free access to information of public importance, because if you don't accept our amendments believe that this law will make no sense, that the provisions of this law will be subject to manipulation, that individuals will commit themselves to their preferences or to what they pay, and I believe that no one in this room is interested. That is why I call on you to accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, and then we too can accept, on this only condition, the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7288	The People's MP Svetlana Stojanovic has the word, and let the MP Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7289	The honourable MPs, since we are passing a law on free access to information of public importance, are essential to determine which information is of public importance, which they do not have and how free it is, and when it is not, when it is limited by law. Public importance has everything in the scope of the work of a public authority person and the users of public finances. A legitimate public interest to know there is always, unless the Authority proves otherwise. So the request for information doesn't have to be explained. Access to information of public importance is limited only by this law, it cannot be restricted arbitrarily from case to case. The public does not have access to information when the health of the population is compromised, when it would be difficult to detect a crime, when the country's defence is threatened, if the country's economics or international relations are disrupted, if one amendment is adopted, and anything defined by law as a state secret, not something that someone voluntarily declares a state secret. Information is not available to the public then if the search is excessive, if unreasonable, if someone repeatedly requests the same document, if they are looking for information already published. The MPs have already noticed this attitude. I don't see why anyone would do that, and I think this attitude might open up some room for arbitration. The speaker had already been told that the area for arbitration also leaves a provision by which access to public information is limited when it weighs the public interest not to know that information. Who estimates what weighs or doesn't weigh? We also discussed the right to privacy and the reputation of officials who protect themselves. Of course, state officials have less privacy than people who aren't, but the reputation of state officials depends on the exact information we have on them. Journalists and public ballots must not be discriminated against, but are neither privileged. I have to admit, it's something I'm sorry about. So this isn't media law, it undoubtedly increases democracy in the country, but we can't forget that we're all mostly informed through the media. The deadlines given to the state authority to respond to the requested information are fifteen days, according to a complaint for fourteen days, and these are deadlines that are only useful for investigative journalism. Otherwise, in daily journalism it's too long a deadline. And now a few words about the most controversial institution of trustees are challenging a large parliamentary group. I don't think without an institution of trustees and his service this law would make any sense. Through this institution, the state takes an active part in informing citizens. So, the law obliges the state authorities to produce a manual that determines the state authorities in which they obtain information, the rules on how information is kept and given, binding on the spokesman to provide that information; it is particularly important that this annual informer, where the citizen learns about the budget of the state institution, about the officials who operate the institution, their phones, their working time, the way in which they make decisions when their decision is made publicly and when it is secret. Don't forget that when a citizen gets that information that's public it only stays in his possession if that citizen isn't a journalist. Therefore, the law will increase democracy, and I recommend that we vote for it. However, I have little doubts about the motivation of the citizens to learn what is of public importance when it is not of his own, and that is why I would like to see a law that gives much more conditions for the smooth and free work of journalists. When we passed the Informative Law and the Radio-Difusion Act in the past, we were also aware of the shortcomings, that is when it was said that the law on free access to information and inadequacy would be corrected. It seems to me that this law is not good enough for the press and that it is something that makes democracy very much better and that is why I suggest you vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7290	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared. At the same time, I find that three MPs have given up the discussion: Zoran Nikolic, Djordje Mamula and Goran Rakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7291	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, obviously we've been inflationing a number of regulations and laws over the past few years. Previous and this authority is competing to pass more laws, not taking into account whether good laws are passed, which will be in the interest of citizens and which will be applicable in practice with their dispositions. One such law is this law that is before the congregation and before the MPs of the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. This law should be passed, but only after the new constitution has been adopted. I wouldn't repeat what the predecessors said. The majority of objections were made by SRS MPs, since they did not have a number of members and these provisions do not contain certain precise dispositions. That's where this law won't be applied in practice. Some of the provisions proposed directly contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 18. The constitution stipulates that human dignity and the right to a man's private life are imperative and injureable. In Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised that everyone has the right to equal protection of their rights in a court procedure, other state or any other body or organisation. Article 2 – each shall be guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which is resolved on its right or on a law based on interest. Ladies and gentlemen, in the provisions of the proposed law, in Article 22(2), you foresee something that is contrary to the Constitution, therefore, against the resolutions of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor cannot make an appeal, and why? So, who gave the promoter the right to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? In Article 22. The constitution is normised that everyone has the right to appeal against decisions by all state authorities, or any other remedy. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are proposing in this paper, which cannot represent a modern and good law, you have predicted something contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You know that well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but it seems that the motionary who explained and explained the proposal for this law has bypassed something. What's dangerous is that here will be the selective application of the provisions of this law. You're introducing an unconstitutional institution - a trustee. I'm telling you that this will be the biggest mistrust, because it will abuse the position, and on the other hand, there is no sanction for it; no sanctions are provided for if this mistrust (so I call it in advance) is done to the physical or legal person. For him, the sanctions were not provided for, and it had to be provided. Criminal law also provides for a criminal offence against the judge's law. You've singled out a non-trustor here, and in practice, he'll be a mistruster, because he'll serve only the interests of the ruling oligarchy. It will provide information that he assesses, not taking into account what data is involved, whether military, economic, any other information relevant to the state, natural and legal persons. There's no sanction for him, he doesn't answer. That's why I think this is an unconstitutional category you're introducing. Without the adoption of the SRS amendment, this bill will be ordinary paper that will not be able to live in practice. This law can be expected to damage the Constitution in advance, and on the other hand, damage will be done to many natural and legal persons and no one will answer for it. In order not to repeat myself and take up time for you, since the MPs of the SRS have made extensive and detailed, precise and reasoned remarks and suggested that this text be improved only in this way, if you accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7292	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let MP Zoran Alimpic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7293	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a nice law. Since 27 January, since we've been sitting here, it's essentially the first real European law. It seems that's exactly what many of us are confused about. Why do I think he's the first and the right one? Because it is obvious that it is a living law that only when it is born will it experience its full effect through application and through changes that will force itself to do so. As a country in a lively transition, it primarily contributes to demystification, convergence, on the one hand, authorities or public officials, and on the other hand, peoples, i.e. citizens and legal persons interested in certain information. Also, I think it will contribute to a much better understanding of what public authorities and public officials are doing and also draw their attention to what it is that citizens are individually interested in. It will act effectively through this prism on the responsibility of public authorities and public authorities. But it will also strengthen responsibility for any publicly spoken or written word, as there will no longer be an excuse that certain information could not have been obtained or to speculate with certain information without checking their source. What is very important to point out is this relationship between the public and the privacy that first appears in this law. It's a thin line, especially for people who have accepted public functions. Of course that doesn't mean that public office holders should keep the bathroom door open, but they have to pay attention, at every step and at all times, to their behavior and their actions. The trustee in this case represents essentially the public. The trustee will play a role in the application of the law and will actively participate in its modification, primarily through the obligations of publishing and updating the manual and this is the first time we have direct education of Serbian citizens in relation to their rights. I wish there were more trustees and more manuals. We heard Sweden still had some issues in 1776 about the availability of public information. That's what made me, and that's what I'm going to end up with, to tell you -- where morals exist, practical laws may not be necessary, but where morals don't even have the best laws don't apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7294	The word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Alimpic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mita Avram.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing this law is finally before its adoption at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party will, of course, vote in favour of this law, primarily because this is the law proposed by the previous government, which was to adopt the previous assembly. It was not adopted by the previous assembly because it failed to fulfil its full mandate, early elections took place, and that is why this law was not adopted earlier. Some people asked that. But ultimately, the time has come for this law to be adopted now and for it to certainly be voted on, because this is one of those laws that introduces Serbia among democratic countries. We have already heard that this law has all the Western democracies, that all EU countries have it, that it is also those countries that are trying to be EU members and that we will be among the last countries to adopt this law, which are seeking to be members of the EU. What is it new that this law brings to the citizens, compared to what it has been so far? So far, journalists and citizens have been able to ask the state authorities for information, and that information was once given to them by the state authorities, sometimes they didn't, sometimes they refused them, sometimes they simply didn't respond, so there was silence of the administration. What will now be new when this law is passed is that citizens who need information will be able to rely on this law. There will be certain rules that all state authorities will have to comply with, and it is particularly important that this law introduces a second-degree body to which those citizens whose information is denied and who are rejected before the competent authorities will be able to appeal. What is the lack of this bill is that it does not apply to the entire state apparatus and to all the organs. So we have this problem that the provisions of Article 22 provide that in the cases of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Court of Serbia, etc. No complaints. This means practically that for that part of the government in Serbia, and it will not change the situation much compared to the one so far. So, when any journalists, any other citizens ask for information, they might get it, and maybe they won't, and they won't have anyone to complain to. For this reason, I think that it would be very good to adopt the amendment proposed by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic on behalf of the Democratic Party, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe and in line with the spirit of this law. The amendment would introduce an appeal to the second-degree body, the trustee, for absolutely all state bodies. So, what's left of this law, and who's the trustee really worried about? Only public enterprises and institutions remain and an unfortunate local self-government will have to meet all citizens' demands, give information and the trustee will force them to do so. That is good, but unless the Government is involved, unless this Parliament is involved and the President of the Republic is involved, there may be perhaps the most important information to be made available to the public and the trustee should also be responsible for them. As for the very question of whether the second-degree body should be a trustee, it could have been someone else. It could have been a regular court, but we know how slow and inefficient the courts are sometimes. It could've been the Ministry, but then we come to the same "cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you". Therefore, I think that the trustee is actually the best and most efficient solution, to introduce a whole new body for a completely new right, to make the body publicly promoted, to know that it is his job alone, that he issues both specific instructions and certain brochures, which we have heard he will do, and that then this law begins to work really as a means to make all information available to citizens, both the public and the press. This could lead Serbia into a completely new era, a public culture, the availability of information, which can also change the way the state works, as well as a media image in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7296	The word has the People's MP Mita Avramov, and let the MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7297	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law may not be ill-conceived, but it is badly done. For this reason, the SRS will not support this law. The law was to be adopted in the right sense and in the right sense that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be informed. Some information is public, some are secrets, some are speculation. What will this trustee, who will now be of great importance to the government and who will bear or will not bear responsibility (but I don't know who he will account for, since he is in this law incomparable), say to the question that currently hurts the most, which is Kosovo, to ask him what information about Kosovo is, what is happening there, who is in Kosovo, in whose interest all this is happening, what Serbs represent in Kosovo, are they there in the reserve? It's an American-known system. Will there be any real information about what's going on with that? He won't, because that information can't go public. Information on the minimum pension, how much the agricultural product is, etc. We will certainly have and will be informed of it. The most important principle of this law is that the public has the right information; all parties in this Parliament have agreed that it is necessary and important. It's the only point that all political options have agreed on. The bill needs this country and the public to be informed, in the true sense of that word. Again, Article 8 of this law says that some information can be denied – about endangering someone’s privacy and even someone’s life. This means that this authority is correcting information. Article 22(2) states that no one has the right to appeal if they do not receive the right information or receive no information at all. That means the trustee can and won't give the information. The trustee is incomparable and he decides what the real information is, what it isn't, who can complain, who can't and who will be the deputy trustee. Most likely, the trustee decides what his salary will be, because he has such a wide democracy. As far as real information is concerned, when we as MPs can't get the real and timely information we're looking for from this pay phone or in writing, imagine how a simple citizen will get the right information. I don't think that citizen will be able to reach the trustee, let alone the information. It will be for the government a trustee and for the people a mistruster. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the proposal. We've pointed to many violations in the laws that have been here on the agenda so far, but the position has never heard of any of our views, for any of our amendments, just for the sake of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7298	The word has a People's MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let the MP Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7299	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the honourable MPs, the right to information and is one of the fundamental human rights. Therefore, it is very important that the law to pass this assembly in the voting day - the law on free access to information of public importance. The public in the work of the institutions of government, state administration and other public authorities is necessary if we want to build a civil society based on human rights and freedoms. The control of actors and the affairs of those involved in public affairs has been built by the son of qua non of any society that pleads to be democratic. Therefore, the adoption of a law on free access to information of public importance will come under the support of the DS parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic. The public works of state authorities and other authorities and freedom of access to information are essential, essential features of the rule of law. Uninformation is a convenient ground for manipulation, and the dosed and hidden information is a basic feature of totalitarian regimes. Effective and public control is necessary in the relevant areas of social life. Without the availability of information, this is not possible. It is therefore of great importance to introduce a legal obligation to provide information owned by state authorities and public institutions. Here's an example. Before the start of today's session, we had a Committee on Agriculture where we discussed a major robbery of the state, namely that 18 billion dinars of stock reserves were effectively robbed, so that those who were stockholders of stock reserves were unauthorized and sold by law something that was not their property, which is state property. The first time we came to that information as a congregation committee, it had a code classified. I'm asking you, in this situation, who were we protecting, were we protecting those thieves who got their hands in the state register by selling goods from the stock reserves? Did we protect the inefficient prosecution, did we protect the inefficient judiciary? Who were we actually protecting by putting a confidentiality mark on documents saying that the Republic of Serbia's stock reserves were robbed by 18 billion, how much is almost the entire annual agricultural budget? In this particular case, we see the importance of the accessibility and availability of information of public importance. The formation of public opinion in the situation of concealment and mystification of certain information in certain areas is devastating and has very serious consequences. Because rather, some laws that are not directly related to this should be passed, but would help democratisation this society, such as the issue of opening secret citizens' files. Many who participated in something else, who today turned the turkey upside down and talked about civil rights and freedoms etc. were formerly co-workers of the service that effectively made it impossible for citizens to handle public affairs in the right way and to participate in social life. When we talk about media, journalism, whether printed or electronic media, as a journalist, I can say that we have lived for a long time in a period of time where there has been severe censorship of the public and naked political propaganda only one political option, and that the public of work was necessary as a basic prerequisite for democracy. Never again will that time, fortunately for us, return, but we must preserve the memory of a time when it was indeed censoring the public and naked political propaganda of only one political option was the state policy and policy that was run by both the electronic and the printed media in this country. In achieving public information rights, a special role and support should be provided to investigative journalism and media that can significantly contribute to raising public awareness in this area. We also remember a law on information, which effectively punished people who only transmitted certain information. We had a situation for a journalist to go to a press conference, where some head of a parliamentary group or, for example, a press conference. The president of a party says some information that the journalist conveys, and then the media and the journalist are punished without consequences for who supplied the information. This is one of the flagrant examples of how in a totalitarian society and in a society where the real information travels, there are various manipulations. Journalists should therefore be provided with accreditations regardless of which order they belong, which policy option they belong to, even if they work for a political organisation and the like, because it is the only way and the right way to reach a civil society based on human rights and freedoms. Information is also important for people to defend themselves against lies. Today, many who do public work simply cannot defend themselves against lies. When I advocate the rights of journalists, who largely create public opinion in this country, I also advocate that all kinds of information be available because it is the only way for people in this country to defend themselves against lies. How many times have you been able to read a lot of things on the front and back pages of the newspaper, how many times have you been able to see that they're waving some kind of paper from this pay phone? People were called in the most vulgar ways, and simply after that they could not answer or defend themselves against lies. Information is "air" without which there are no conditions necessary for the life of a society that pleads to be democratic. With this law, the public in the work ceases to be declarative, but becomes real, and only a government that is not afraid of the public in its work can be responsible and, of course, subsequently, and replaceable. The objective of building a democratic society must be freedom of information and full openness of public institutions. I can understand here that the law also had to provide for situations where the availability of information is limited, and there are tax-listed cases in which the right to information may be denied, but every possible manipulation should be prevented from implying something that does not belong under some of these examples, in order to deny the information. There are particularly prominent matters relating to the area of private and private life of a citizen, military-national security and the like. But the example I set at the beginning of the robbery of stock reserves, at the height of the annual agrarian budget, is certainly not confidential information that needs someone to protect. The totalitarian society we have been living in for decades has created in human souls a wasteland that is hard to remove. That's why it takes time to make changes in people's minds and not to make people feel dependent on the almighty state, but only to happy individuals and citizens in the fullest sense of that word. The adoption of a law on free access to information of public importance is a step towards achieving a modern, European, democratic Serbia and will therefore face full support from the DS parliamentary group because we need major changes in the opinion, action and establishment of an effective system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7300	Thank you very much. Replica? Here you go. Are you looking for a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7301	As an authorised representative. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, a few things have been said that simply do not stand, so I am obliged to say something about this. Each serious state has a way of protecting information concerning stock reserves. Stock reserves, among other things, exist for one country to be able to overcome the elemental disasters, the immediate threat of war or war. The law stipulates that every state is obliged to have them, and ours was obliged to have them, and has that obligation today, stockpiles in several food products and energys for 90 days of war. That's why it's not being reported, even when the violations that were being said here are being committed, that one state has no stock reserve, because that way, potential aggressors are being informed, and they always do, that this country is unable to endure 90 days of war with these products that are here. So, the state has an obligation to protect this data precisely for the reasons that I have stated, and it is an obligation that should be respected, and it is the obligation of the state authorities in our country to conduct the procedure to replace the stock reserves in the manner prescribed by the law, and that the persons responsible for the illegal consumption of the goods reserves correspond. So it's just something that's important to know, because not everyone, no matter how hard they try, can have all the information about the functioning of a country, and thinks that someone is doing good in that way. It's just the other way around. And speaking of these stock reserves, let me just say a few more sentences. The biggest shortage of stock reserves was the use of first and foremost of a dairy organisation in Serbia, using the right stock and their renewal, of something they had no right to do. So, using the right to gartered grind, they spent state wheat as their own. They used to charge most of the time, and they couldn't replace the stock reserves and put them back where they belong. This is important, and everything needs to be done to replace the supplies, to make the responsible persons fit. But please, this isn't about any systematic robbery. It's, first of all, about the rusty management assessment that, by the dynamics of the renewal of the stock reserve, it has to be done out of its own business. Unfortunately, it turns out it wasn't possible. That's why it's important that we know that, and we don't have to start accusing them at all. We should oblige them to return what is people's and state's and understand why this problem came about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7302	Thank you. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7303	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that a law is passed that will regulate as much as possible everything considered public information, but it is almost indicative that in every discussion of this pro-democracy, block force, when they come out for this pay phone, they say of every bill – this leads us to Europe. Well, gentlemen, we are all more or less MPs here in the same situation and we are aware of the fact that since 2000 there has been no such thing in this assembly of the institutions of the parliamentary question. Since 2000, no parliamentary question has been asked from this pay phone, although, for the sake of truth, they have been asked, but in writing. Look at that, that's your statistic, you're usually recognizable by statistical data and by plane maps, see how many responses have been received in the past term. Take a look at the statistics on how many parliamentary questions are raised in this conference, so you will see that you yourself have introduced censorship when it comes to information of public importance. How can we go to Europe and not change ourselves? I interpret it well-intentioned, as a lack of adequate means, and it's called a mirror. What's a fact, it's that in this law it's trying to define what's public and what's special information. By that general meaning, special information should be some state secret. Gentlemen, don't lose sight, there's been no more information since 2000 that could be called a secret. There are, however, documents that are not available, which have "confidential" or "secret". These documents are not available to those who have been kidnapped as an export article, taken to The Hague tribunal, but are available to those who are leading an unprecedented trial against those persons. After all, we are witnessing that an American ambassador entered this building, the Serbian Parliament, what's-his-name, I don't know... His wife is very smart, she declared us to be on the level of gypsies. The gentleman's name is Montgomery and Mrs. Lin. Better you know him than I do. I know what you don't know. Here you go, Mr. Mircic. And that's progress, and a man is aware of what he doesn't know, as is not your advantage to know that. It's not exactly for praise. But good. We are witnessing that, with the presence of Mr. Ambassador, not to say again, this is the authorial work of the president, the documents from this assembly, documents relating to the work and functioning of parliament, some of which were marked or encrypted as "secret", "confident". In the Serbian government, many know it, the situation was much worse. Why? Because everything was out of the government of Serbia. Then it went to the army, then the police, the security agencies, and that's how it went. Now we are passing a law which is essentially good, because such laws exist as legal norms in all European countries and it is some framework that binds, restricts, if anything, then state bodies or individuals. It restricts them in their illegal actions. What could be mentioned as an observation? We've heard from the promoters that they've been privileged here, and so far they haven't been, journalists. Every time you lack firm arguments, something that is based on a legal proposal or in reality, you immediately call on that you are well-intentioned to the press. They're not journalists, gentlemen. They're the goods that would serve you as a prostitute. You felt the moment so that through this legislative proposal you could gain the well-being of journalists, that few of them through the media would promote this law tomorrow, promote great progress and great success and the impacting merits of the legislator of this law. The journalists know that in this law, they read well, as we MPs do, there is a great limit. It's called a trustee. Why? Because you're introducing an institution that's not founded in law, in the Constitution, and when something isn't founded in law, when something isn't founded in the Constitution, it's always the object of manipulation. We had this experience from the previous period, from the new democratic lessons that we from the Serbian Radical Party listened carefully and patiently for three years; you listened to the same thing as the radicals for three years, and now you're telling the story. You saw that story not drinking water. Instead of the trustees in the previous period, he was the Information or Communication Bureau. Apparently, everything was harmony, everything was beautiful, a democracy with an emergency, and then an individual appears who, within one institution, was called the Serbian Government, takes absolute power into his own hands, all the powers are in his hands, has absolute power over the media, over the journalists. And then at that time, he came up with, not as an individual, he's just a product of one policy, one political force or party that works in these places, to save the journalists of all torments, he's introduced already famous so-called briefings. "Isn't it the baby?" I don't know, he's grown up already. It's not very nice to say for a man who's too old to call himself that. Well, it doesn't matter now, how important the fact that we've had an example that if we give authority and certain opportunities to an institution or individual, then there's a high probability of abuse of those powers. What are we doing now? Instead of passing as a parliament, as a legislative body an additional commitment to the Serbian government, to ask the government for responsibility, we are now forming an anti-law, anti-constitutional institution. After all, we will be faced with the fact that you cannot control it, because it is legally not founded. In any case, we radicals have unlimited confidence in you Democrats when you say that this institution, that individual, will be an impartial figure. When you say that, we believe you. You don't have to convince us. Convince the press that she'll be impartial. Since 2000, he's always been a non-party person or an expert, in a worse case. When abuse occurs, then you have to go out and say, "Mrs. Journalists, public workers, we made a mistake." But that mistake will no longer be forgiven and qualified as your oral or written confession. Gentlemen, we have witnessed the situation that this state, it would not, or its authority, seek the responsibility of individuals. The mistakes made like this are caused by certain consequences, and the people who suffer these consequences are asking for compensation, not from you individually, not from this government, but from the state, and when the state pays, it has to demand the responsibility of the individual. That game is over. We need to be careful. Why are we saying this, Serbian radicals? Before the amendments are discussed, we still have time to correct the amendments, to make this law, which is mostly a good law, an idea well-founded, but let us be reasonable enough to improve this legal solution by adopting certain amendments. This institution can also be framed in existing legal provisions, established in the Constitution; if the institution functions, it is irrelevant what the name of the Serbian Government is, if we ask that institution or that individual not only as a parliament, but also as a government, responsibility and information. Don't start making a cardinal mistake. However, some in the existing coalition government swear that there will never be an emergency in Serbia again. I wouldn't be so sure. We do not know, after all, what life carries, especially because we have witnessed the situation that apparently a new coalition is at hand that will maintain this famous democratic continuity when 11,000 people, and among them a large number of journalists, have been imprisoned by these democratic principles simply because they disagreed with the opinion of one man or that they were not according to the criteria and tastes of one party. It used to be one man and one woman, and now one man and one party. There's no difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7304	The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dragor Hiber. Mr. Mircic, I apologize for that intrusion earlier. Please accept my apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS will support the proposal for a law on free access to information of public importance, as this law strengthens democratic processes in society and combating corruption, which is the democratic and programming definition of the DSS. In addition, in addition to these consequences that were brought during the discussion, which are public control, the control of the work of the state authorities, it has another consequence – bringing a citizen back to the centre of political developments in Serbia. The fact that a citizen has the ability to obtain information that can at a certain point affect the formation of his political will, thus expressing a clear commitment to the elections, affects that a citizen who is the source of the government comes to the heart of political events and in some way analyzes in the previous period of the apathy shown in the last elections. It is this fact that the citizen is once again the center of political events in some way strengthening democratic processes in our society. There is no doubt that the proposed law on free access to information of public importance is in its good part anti-corruption law, as it prevents state authorities from making decisions and in some ways hide them from the public's eyes, and these decisions can largely be based on violations of regulations and personal wealth. In this situation, an interested citizen who asks for information from a state authority, if he finds it suspicious that corruption has been committed, can at first prevent it. We in this House have passed several regulations, a law on preventing conflicts of interest in public services, amending the Law on Public Procurement, which are on the verge of anti-corruption tendencies in society. In addition to the fact that during the discussion it is pointed out to those positive sides that are passed by the institutes of this law, there is no doubt that there are some parts of this bill that may be relevant, unless they are adequately disabled in practice, to prevent the realisation of access to information of public importance. It has repeatedly been pointed out here that this law is abounding with legal standards. They are good at norming, they can embrace certain things, but here these standards are so set and incorporated into the whole system that the authorised person of the state authority, which ultimately decides on a request for information of public importance, can, in addition to all these restrictions that are stated in the law, extend these restrictions. That's the problem. A huge discretionary law and a large number of legal standards can introduce to a small door a series of restrictions that are not explicitly prescribed by this draft law. This may be an obstacle to accessing information and may in some way put a citizen in the position of subjects again, and give the state authorities the opportunity to hide information they believe can "injure them". There are some provisions here that, of course, if the law is properly implemented, they can prevent this. In particular, I would refer to that part of the proposed law relating to measures to improve the public work of the authorities. I think we will face it in the next period, and last week it was announced from this pay phone that a strategy on the state administration is being adopted, with a co-operative twist in the work of the state authorities, the moment they empower one person to resolve citizens' requests for information of public importance. I think in every state organ, the way we work so far will turn. I think that the public, this transparency that has been stalled so far, must suddenly come out, and in this sense it is very important to move on as soon as possible, after the election of the trustees, with education in the state authorities or authorities, because there is this magic of bureaucracy, that desire to hide from the public, that in some way the citizen, as I said in the opening part of the exhibition, is brought back into the position of subjects. I think that education must be implemented as soon as possible and that, in accordance with the new laws on state administration and other regulations governing the position of civil servants, we come to Serbia in the coming period to receive such an official or official who will be able to rightly respond to the obligations that follow under this law. Of course, the Commissioner, whose position and role here are very debated, plays an extremely large role in adopting and proposing these measures to improve the public work of the authorities. When it comes to the trustee, it is indisputable that he can respond more to the objectivity of the work and the obligations given to him by this law than to any other proposals that have been heard here. If it were an authority of the administration that would be incorporated into the state authorities, we might doubt whether he would respond to these obligations and whether he would want to give information, but I think the trustee could properly satisfy that role if certain assumptions were fulfilled regarding the organisation of the work of the trustee himself. We have seen that, in the opening part of the law, we are talking about which authorities can ask for information; these are listed, in addition to state authorities at the level of the Republic, and the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, and of course legal entities which are mainly funded by the state body. But then we have a situation where the trustee is elected by the National Assembly, as well as his deputy; here a very lapidary mention is made of a professional service that would be formed by the trustees, and we do not know the structure of that professional service and whether it will be able to respond to the obligations. If a local citizen asks for information from a public enterprise, and we can expect citizens to want to get information, a bunch of these unresolved demands can be merged towards the Belgrade trustee. The big question is how this professional service will be organised and whether the trustee can respond to all the obligations given to him unless the professional service disseminating and expanding. I think this is a very important question and that the question of trustee professional service should have been regulated by this law, because we as the National Assembly that chooses it cannot react adequately tomorrow if such a professional service does not properly meet the obligations of this law. As I said in the opening part, in addition to the fact that it is undoubtedly affecting the control of the work of the state authorities, to prevent corruption, one important consequence is that the citizen is put back in the centre of political events, which gives him the opportunity to obtain information that may at some point be decisive to form his political will. It thus leaves the position of subjects in the position of an active political entity in our society. Of course, from the work of the trustees, from how they present to the public, from the education of officials in state authorities, from what kind of manual they will be presented to citizens, from whether the state authorities will respond to the obligation to deliver their informer once a year and from how many citizens will understand their new role as provided by this law depends on how democratic our society will be, how often we avoid this phenomenon that was common in the previous period, in a period of flight from political responsibility. In any case, the DSS will support this law and I urge all MPs to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7306	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Dragore Hiber, he's not here. The last registered speaker is Miroslav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7307	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as last reported for the discussion, I want to do some kind of small recapitulation, because this is certainly a new law and in European legislation, as we have heard, and we have something new to learn, so also on new democratic approaches in Europe. The question arises whether these are the remarks we hear now, especially for this second part of the law on the procedure, the objections that can be removed. If only three countries have not passed such a law, it is obvious that Serbia must have it. It's just a question of how this law is going to work. We see no other way but for those provisions that are essential and essential to this law, which are the provisions of the first 14 members, to be applied in practice. And then let's see how they work in our society, whether something needs to be changed in the Administrative Procedure Act, whether it's good to be a trustee or a ministry. This is how we can conduct these theoretical discussions, say he should be a trustee, be a ministry, but we won't be here for a pay phone and in this room to solve this issue until we get into practice and enforce the law. After all, the trustee is not alone. He has a certain service behind him. It's kind of a small ministry, with it not being with the government, but the Assembly is directly founded. Maybe it's some kind of parallel government, someone's going to say it's unconstitutional, but let's try it. In February, we celebrated 200 years of the new Serbian state. Serbia became then and entered European countries, democratic countries and we are building democracy. In Europe, this democracy is building, progressing, changing. This law is new to Europe. We agreed on the first 14 members that this was it. About the other 36 members who talk about procedures, we don't all agree in this room. Let's see, let's try to make it work. There are representatives of the ministry who have said, frankly, that they don't know how it's going to work, let's see, we're going to change that law and it's good if we need to change it more often, especially in that part. Among the objections that were heard here there were reasonable objections and my predecessor hinted at them. When you look at the procedures conducted in front of these bodies and if the right of citizens, or the media to receive information, all procedures can last 100 days. Now that the information system is modern, when the news goes from minute to minute, you know what 100 days is, because nobody knows something happened 100 days ago, it's forgotten, it's gone into history. So we need to see how the information is available, but not anytime, but sooner. We now have information that someone shot a Belgrade criminal, obviously involved, as journalists say, and a vehicle with military plates burned in some forest around Belgrade. When the press asks the Ministry of Defence for information, the Ministry of Defense can tell them for 15 days, wait, we don't have enough information, we extend the deadline by 40 days, then refuse, and then that there's a 15-day deadline with this trustee, and another 30 days, and that's 100 days. Who needs information after 100 days, and that's all under this law? So that's going to show up in practice, and we've heard here all kinds of objections, that it's courting someone, that it's unnecessary law. Obviously the law is necessary, whether it's courting or not, that's the law we have to have, and that's the law that has to work. When it comes to whether it's a trustee or a ministry, we simply have to keep an eye on it and we have to develop trust in the authority of individuals. So, not the kind as we had in the older systems, the uncut authority, but the authority set up democratically. Finally, one trustee can be completely smart, be like one ministry, if under the control of this Parliament, and ultimately, it's easier to control him than one ministry within the government, where you have to control the entire government to have control of the ministry and where the government's authority won't protect another government body. So it's now for a wide open discussion. When we get back to the beginning, by adopting this law, we essentially adopt the first 14 members, adopt new, democratic behaviour in Serbia, and then we can all go along and change what doesn't work. So what's said here, the practice will show whether it's good in a particular segment or not. I suggest that this law be passed as soon as possible and we choose the trustee and this law starts to apply, and I will be the first to change if it doesn't work well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7308	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word is Mr. Rajko Baralic. He's got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, the SPS will support the information access law; we will also support several amendments submitted by the SRS and DS parliamentary groups. We will support those amendments that, in our opinion, amend the law. At the very end of the debate, I would like to say that by passing the law, ideal conditions will not be created, but there will be better conditions in this area than we had. Serbian citizens will be given a legal tool to allow them to get information that is important to them in a better way, and the state authorities will be obliged to inform Serbian and media citizens in a more correct way than has been prescribed so far. During the debate, several different arguments were heard which are today, each trying to offer a particular argument from the point of view of the political programme of the party represented here. We think it's better if the law is passed for a number of reasons, even though there are a lot of loose ends, because we've already talked about them here. This law will be one of those that will be changed over the time that is before us, because it was not possible to solve everything only by this law and this way. Anyway, at least we're going to break the argument out of the hands of those who keep saying that we're the last country that didn't have a law, etc., which I already said at the beginning of the debate, because it's not true that there was such a darkness here that was talked about; they mentioned colleagues in some other situation, they mentioned the communications bureau, a whole series of abuses in this area. Also, I would like to say that it was remembered that a year and a half ago, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the President of the Belgrade District Court, Mrs Karamarkovic and Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, resigned because politicians, above all, were Mr Vladan Batic and some others, statements about the actions that were under way, by giving information they were not allowed to know and by judging before the court proceedings ended in the most harsh manner possible use of their position and their function. So, if someone's talking about some time, let him take a look at the times he had a responsibility to exercise power. Each government only makes an account in front of voters, and as well as others, it has paid the bill in a way that is usually paid. I also want to say that it doesn't make sense that in a country where the President of the Republic is elected for five years of this trustee, this institution that we're talking about here today we're choosing for seven. It's a weak argument, as far as I'm concerned, that it's because of being independent and that no one can influence him. It's something that's absolutely without a clear argument. I also agree with those colleagues who were here today saying that non-partisan definition simply cannot survive. We know exactly that no matter what anyone gives as an explanation, whenever we choose or appoint a very, very precise party-exposed man, who mostly does certain jobs more in the interest of a political organisation or of a coalition than he is able to withstand independent functioning himself. But like many other things, this is something that will obviously have to be corrected in the coming time. I am finishing this brief address with one message that I am constantly and on committees and here I am trying to place – someone is constantly afraid of parliament in Serbia. When they stop fearing parliament in Serbia, when they stop fearing what parliament decides, when the dignity of MPs and parliament becomes what we will be proud of and when parliament gets what it should have in Serbia, then we will make some decisions like this one today and some laws like this one today. We find different ways to wrap different oblandas into different proposals that need to turn out unbiased, which should in any way provide so-called. It's an independent function. And we see, in fact, also at the Radio-Difusing Council, both in this law and in many other things, that it's not at all about that, but it's about the fear that the National Assembly is going to decide on something that's normal for it to decide in the whole world. That's how it is. Once again, the National Assembly will vote on the law in a decision-making day, the SPS MPs will support it and support several amendments that amend the law, which the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party have tabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7310	Anyone else from the president who hasn't used time wants a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? SRS MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the SRS has had the most trouble with the choice, position and jurisdiction of the trustees, the very function of the trustees and this amendment followed by many amendments afterwards, in fact, has the task of eradicating the role of the trustees. Of course, it will depend on the vote. I wish the old Rules of Procedure were in effect, so that the fate of this amendment would immediately define our behaviour towards the other amendments that are related to this, but I don't think we're going to waste too much time to explain practically the same amendment. I must warn you that the position of the trustee is indeed extremely strong, and I would like the motionary to have predicted that the trustee be a non-partisan figure, rather than be of the opposition. Then I could accept that there is a man with this much authority, with this much authority, even with immunity, for which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not foresee immunity. That's what worries me the most. You are introducing immunity for some trustee, and you know very well that immunity has been introduced in article 77 for MPs, in article 86 for the President of the Republic, in article 94 for the Government, and you have more for judges (101) and prosecutors (Article 106). The constitution no longer foresees immunity for anyone in Serbia. You are now instituting immunity for the trustee as equal to the immunity of constitutional categories. You're suggesting, you're asking for the trustee to be chosen as a face with a recognised reputation. I'd like that linguist to see here, come out for a pay phone and tell me what it means to be a "recognized reputation." The man is either respectable or not. Tell me which group of people will be classified, and that will be the first man in Serbia with a recognised reputation. We haven't had a single man yet we'd say has a recognized reputation. A man can have a reputation, and a reputation means we'll have to have a commission to check if the trustee can be recognized. What else bothers me with the trustee? In Article 34 paragraph 2: "The Commissioner decides independently, in accordance with the law, on the admission of a person to a working relationship in the professional service... "Now I ask you, can ministers decide on the admission of a person to the professional service on their own, can the President of the National Assembly decide who will be employed in the National Assembly and who not? Suddenly, the trustee, who chooses both his deputy and his entire professional service, becomes a man who has much more authority in his domain than a special prosecutor. I don't think copying legislation from developed Western democracies is applicable here. There when people say a special prosecutor knows he's invulnerable, they know he'll let his head investigate the work or appear or root out something and not give up until it's over. When a congregation committee is formed there, meeting the committee is a fear for ministers or for those called by the board. Only in the text that we will have a trustee whose decisions, solutions and conclusions are binding, it will sound nice when they read it to you in the West. But you won't be able to do it here at all. Of course, the legislator has deviated from the constitutional principle that the bill must provide for financial resources, that the funds must be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. He wrote that the funds for his work are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and our budget is so tense that the finance minister has kidnapped NIS six billion to rag the gaps in the budget and thus surpassed even the one we called "God's Derikoza". For this reason, not to spread the story of the trustee, therefore the SRS parliamentary group is of the opinion that this should have been established in another way. Of course...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7312	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7313	I think I have a minimum of 10 minutes, according to my budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7314	Five minutes after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7315	Of course, there's plenty of time. You made it possible for your MP today to speak for two and a half minutes longer, but you were in a good mood, so I would ask you to convey that good mood for another 20 minutes. Of course, it could also be discussed about the justification for the ministry to perform this function in charge of information affairs, because it must also provide some information. The government of the Republic of Serbia has an Administrative Committee, which is for many solutions given by the ministries individually, a second-degree body. It could have been the board of directors, and it could have been the person appointed by the opposition. You would prove that you would like to implement this law if you would entrust the opposition with the role of the trustees, so that he could chase down the ministries and state authorities for the information they did not provide. Like this, a non-party figure that already has a "recognized" reputation and proven expertise in fighting for human rights. Once again, I resent that the face photo didn't come in here and that there's no indication of the age of who's going to be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7316	Thank you, 7.35 minutes. I listened to you as my MP, so I gave you a minute longer than those two minutes. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, Mrs. Snow White-Stojacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7317	The Democratic Party has not accepted the SRS amendment for several reasons. By abandoning the trustees, this law is literally "killing". The trustee is a very important institution of this law and sets out the highest standards according to the Council of Europe's recommendations when establishing and adopting these laws and has the largest number of countries. These major changes that have been made by certain laws in countries that have introduced this new right into their legal system included the fact that many of them have found that the trustee is a much better, much more important institution, in order to meet the needs of all those seeking public information, to receive an adequate response when making the complaint. The institution of the trustees, in accordance with the provisions of this law, is not defined in any member through the fact that it must be an extra-party personality. I will quote the provision of Article 30(4), which says: "The Commissioner cannot be the person performing the function or is employed by another state body or political party. "So it refers exclusively to the fact that the trustee cannot have a thorough working relationship in a political party. I don't see any reason to particularly point out whether the trustee will be a member of some political party, an extra-party person, from a position or opposition. The reputation of the trustee is also created by the way he is appointed. It is proposed by the National Assembly's committee in charge, and elected by the majority of the MPs of the republic's parliament. If you question the majority's decision, in the fact that the man elected by the Serbian parliament will be someone with a reputation in this society, then you question the validity of the republic's parliament, thereby expressing suspicion of the people's will. It is not true that the trustee provision is unconstitutional. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, everything that is not prohibited is allowed. Thus, it is not entirely contrary to the current Constitution that the trustee is appointed by this law as the body to which the appeal will be made. I therefore think that the essence of the amendment relating to the trustee is that this law is unthinkable, because if you would assume that the complaint is being made to the Ministry of Information Affairs, you would in fact come to the conclusion by appeal by the authority which has the obligation to provide public information at the request of any natural person who has the right to know certain information. Simply, you would come to the fact that whoever has an obligation decides by appeal, which is also left to him. Therefore, I think that this member is extremely important, that the trustee of the institution in which we have to trust, that the reputation and trust will be based on the man who is given the authority, who is appointed to be the trustee; it will depend on the reputation of this Parliament, and if we all care that this Parliament has a reputation, there is no reason to doubt the work of the trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7318	Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7319	Since I'm convinced that my colleague has enough intellectual skills, I think she deliberately misread me. I will read to you Article 30, paragraph 4, which you said I did not interpret well: "The Commissioner cannot be a person who performs his duties or is employed by another state body or political party". This means that the trustee cannot be a person who performs his duties in a political party. It's pure interpretation, like the sun. Here, ask one of your coalition partners. This means that even the chairman of a political party's municipal board cannot be trusted. That means you're turning off people who are involved in politics again. Why? Are these infectious people, are they dishonest, immoral people? If the Prime Minister can be a political party official, if your President of the Republic has retained the position of party president, even though the Constitution says that the President of the Republic cannot perform another public function, how can the trustee not be the chairman of the municipal board? The president of the Republic can be party president, and the trustee cannot be president of the local political party committee. Are we all equal? If we're equal, this restriction has to be cast out. You're very prone to limitations. That's where you re-enter human rights and freedoms. Everyone has the right to choose and be chosen, even those who do politics. You could have said that for a certain period of time, he stopped dealing with politics. Otherwise, a man who doesn't do politics for me isn't complete, he's not perfect. You didn't mind when the Constitutional Court judge became vice president of the DS Municipal Committee in Novi Sad. You didn't mind when the President of the Constitutional Court became a member of the G17 plus, then you didn't mind. Suddenly, the trustee can't function in a political party. I understand, the transition is almost over, you're coming up with more and more knowledge, but go back and forth, undo the elections that were not in line with the new knowledge. If the new knowledge is that a politician cannot be trusted, then it is the knowledge that he can't even be the judge of the Constitutional Court and that he can't be President of the Republic. Because we are equal before the Constitution, before the law and before God. (President: Time. I'm done. That is why I have already said that I do not like the amendment (unfortunately, I have not seen it in good time) – that the ministry is deciding, and that you are absolutely right, but also this trustee certainly, in the way you imagine him, will not be able to fulfill this function.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7320	Thank you. There's no replica on the replica, please. I asked if it was in the Rules of Procedure or if it was a replica. It was a replica, please be kind, it's a replica. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment, the Committee on Culture and Information proposes that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7321	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 2 submitted by Zoran Krasic, are required to delete Article 2. For what? In fact, in the first position of this member, it is defined what information is of public importance, and the second position only in a different way, as amended by the order of words in the sentence, processes the exact same thing. So the 1st position in this article begins with: "The information of public importance, in terms of this law, is information... "and so on. And attitude 2 says the same thing, only it starts: "In order for some information to be considered information of public importance... "and so on. Therefore, we do not believe that there is a need for this second position to stand in this article, given that the first position defines what information is, although it is stated in the government's explanation that it is necessary, since the law is first applied, to establish as accurately as possible what information is of public importance. However, this law, like most similar laws that have been before the Serbian Parliament so far, has one major flaw, and I believe that it is being passed in the weather. In fact, if you look at chronologically when such and similar laws were created in European countries, you will see that they were created in periods when these countries had huge economic growth, huge trade surpluses, when they created a rich society, and such a rich and powerful society, with large budgets and large budgets, had the need to enable their executive authorities to work more easily on the basis of the auxiliary bodies they founded. This resulted in a large number of agencies, creating a large number of different institutions and institutions. And here's the trustee, although he practically represents one person, actually an institution that has a large number of employees. The state of Serbia will really not be in a situation and will be able to maintain with its budget a large number of state authorities, which you are hoarding from law to law, and see that Europe has received the laws of this type when it has a strong and powerful economy. That is why it is much better for this assembly to commit itself to passing laws that will improve the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and rich and powerful Serbia will impose itself on such laws to be adopted here in the Assembly. I'm going to take this opportunity and just say that here in an explanation, regardless of what this amendment is about, but it's about the essence of the law, where the reasons for the law are stated, there are very strange sentences that really attract the attention of the average man, and I'm not talking about those other people who are definitely going to be hurt by this. In fact, it is said that free access to information available by state authorities makes citizens better informed, restoring a cycle of democratic rationality. Here, you're from the Ministry, please explain to me how access to information contributes to restoring the cycle of democratic rationality; if it's renewal then it's understood that it's a cycle. Namely, cycles are bound to be restored. Therefore, both words are not necessary. And tell me what democratic rationality is, how that democratic rationality occurs in cycles and what happens in those times when it's not a cycle of democratic rationality. Is this a cycle of democratic irrationality and is the government currently in this cycle of democratic irrationality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7322	I thank you, Mr. Rankic. On the occasion of the same amendment, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting because this position 2 is unnecessary and unnecessarily observable. It should be warned by the one who lectures on the draft laws that come before the National Assembly that each sentence should look like something. First, it is unnecessary because point 1 defines what information is of public importance and how it arises, what it refers to, and then further says below what conditions are not important to consider information of public importance. Well, now it could have been arranged: it doesn't matter if it came from spring, whether it came from the north or the south of the country... You know, when you give a term, then you determine what it is, and not what doesn't matter to something it's going to be. Because you're walking into a trap so you can make up things that don't matter. The law states what is important, what determines the concept. On the other hand, this second attitude, which is made up of one sentence, eight times repeats the word "information" in different declines. Imagine a primary school student who would write a sentence in writing from a Serbian language where an eight-fold word would appear. Could that child lay the Serbian language? Aren't there words that replace that word? That's why the law doesn't lose anything if it runs out of a different attitude. Nothing. They won't feel at all in application. It just eliminates hornacity and what no law has yet contained in Serbia, and that is what is not important for this law. Don't introduce a practice to keep us informed of the law that doesn't matter for that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7324	Here's a word from the People's MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7325	Just as in the previous amendment, and in this SRS, it makes remarks and does not offer a solution. In the previous amendment, an objection shall be made to the trustee. The second-degree body is projected to be the ministry responsible for the field of information, so that we can be told from this speaker that this solution is not good either, but we have come to know the solution too late. Now, that's the difference between the SRS and the DS, between one man and one party and what it offers. When he has a comment on a provision, when he has a remark on a certain law, the Democratic Party knows why he has the objection and offers a solution that will improve the law and that provision. This is why the DS has a vision of how certain things should be changed, certain laws and therefore gives amendments that improve the law, because it knows which way to reach the goal to improve a certain thing. That is why I think the trustee is the right solution, which is proved by a recent and authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, because the solution they offer with the amendment is a solution that is absolutely inadmissible in this legislative proposal ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7326	Replication to mention in the presentation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7327	I didn't hear the election was called and the DS fight against the SRS started. And if you think you're taking him, then let someone from the Democratic Party come out, don't you convince me what DS is offering and what it's going to look like. I experienced it, and all of Serbia experienced it on its back when the Democratic Party was in power. Access to information – e, it was very arranged when you were in power. We had as much information as you'd like, we just didn't know where those 11,000 people you arrested were. The information was to arrest you, but we didn't know why you were arresting them, or where they were, and for your information, out of those 11,000 arrested, 40 indictments were filed. So don't complain to the Serbian Radical Party. I expect this from the legislator to defend the law. I don't expect a new DS member to say this many bad words to the SRS. You still need to catch that democratic party's manners. Nothing's caught you in the DS yet. He's about to catch you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7328	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7329	Article 97, I've been misread. I only found the fact that speaking about the amendment to Article 1st, Mr Nikolic made it clear that the solution proposed by the amendment by the Serbian Radical Party is not a good solution, and nothing else. I also said that all the solutions proposed by the DS for this law and submitted amendments are good solutions because they go towards improving this law. Whether something caught me or not, that's my problem, but it caught me fighting for European Serbia, for democratic Serbia. Are the elections ahead of us? I'm sure they are. Is anyone afraid of these choices? Yeah. Is that DS? Certainly not, because in the last elections this country had, for local self-government, the DS won. In the Serbian president's election, the DS won. In the future elections for the republican parliament, be assured, the DS will win.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7330	Thank you. And now and in the future, Article 97. The Rules of Procedure only explain the right to a replica and ask that you do not abuse it in an attempt to engage in a discussion. I also pray there are no public calls for coalitions, because you see how they end. Be kind, if it's not a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Yes. ) Yes, here's to the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7331	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Every MP has the right to attempt to harm the Rules of Procedure, and the previous MP has done so. I warned you from the bench. The 97th is a straight line, and I've had a replica of the predecessor's exposure. So you couldn't give her a word at all. I'm telling you, she's using the replica, because the 97th is a replica, and you, when she's finished, you're putting down your tiaras, you're now saying that she had no right and that she abused that right. So, since this is indeed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, just to remind those who have not heard that Boris Tadic has urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections and that fewer Serbs have come out than have been killed since KFOR and UNMIK came to Kosovo and Metohija. It's the influence of your president, as you say, the winner in the election, just a few months after winning the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-26-0.u7332	I owe you an explanation, Mr. Nikolic. I have already made a statement about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have found that your call for Mrs Stojacic to be questioned by coalition partners when defending the law caused the debate to be conducted exclusively between these two parties. Time's up, we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
