ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6949	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 144 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from being attended by MP Goran Knezevic, and he will be late for Živodarka Dacin. I would like to inform you that they have been authorized to consider the first item of the agenda: in front of DS Aleksandar Vlahovic; in front of the SPO - NS Sanja Cekovic; in front of the SPS Jovan Todorovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President of the National Assembly has been injured by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Articles 81 and 100, so I would first like to quote Article 81's position. "Employments of the National Assembly to discuss bill proposals, development plans, spatial plans, budgets... They are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18:00 hours. "Article 100: "People's MPs (and I interpret it widely, like all participants in the session) are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." It's 11.05, Mr. President. The National Assembly, the most legislative body, is about an hour late because Mr. Minister was a participant on a radio show in Belgrade. It has not yet happened in the history of the National Assembly, in the multilateral system of the National Assembly, that 126, 250, 84 MPs are waiting for the minister to come from some show he has on some radio station. If one show on the radio station is more important than the National Assembly, let's get us out of here, let them come to you from radio stations here and listen to what the ministers and the government have to tell them, let them decide what the ministers and the government say, let them vote the budget, let them lead Serbia whatever the radio and television owners want, and that the National Assembly no longer exists, that the people no longer choose the MPs. It's unacceptable. If it weren't for such a bad budget and not to be attacked and warned Serbian citizens about what happens if voted, we would have left this session; 82 SRS MPs do not allow the minister to harass them by waiting for him to go to the radio station. I would find an excuse that he really has some family problem that he can't appear at 10.00 hours, but that he spends his political manifestations ignoring the working time of the National Assembly, it's just a sign of who is everything in this government, who are all ministers and how ministers understand their obligations to the people. For you, Mr. President, and for you, Mr. Minister, this is the people in this room. Imagine that nine million of us are in this room, except Serbia doesn't have that much room, so it had to choose 250 of its representatives. Otherwise, those 250 represent all those millions who have the right to vote. This must never happen again and this must not go unpunished. As a punishment, I also accept the rebuke that the president of the National Assembly would direct to the minister, and the self-problem that would direct himself here, publicly, in front of all of us to say - sorry, the minister who belongs to my political party, insulted the MPs, for ignoring them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6951	Of course I'm obliged to give an explanation. Fortunately, not because we do not have such an O.R., but because such a law and the Constitution makes 250 MPs. Also, within the article you advertised - 81, where the Assembly is said to work from 10.00 to 1800 hours, and now we are in the time between 10.00 and 18.00. The assembly starts, because this isn't the only member, you know, the moment there's a quorum. Control of whether there is a quorum is seen thanks to the electronic voting system. As you know, as president of the SRS parliamentary group, you came in with me, I walked in this door, and you sat on this door, and the minister was already sitting here. The condition is fulfilled when 84 MPs appeared. So, the minister was before the assembly began. I thank him for that. I can't keep track of what I'm doing, until the National Assembly is ambushed, someone's doing. That would be incorrect. I hope you're satisfied with the explanation. You didn't? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6952	Mr. President, you have been re-injured by Article 100(1). I'm not a stupid man at all, and don't talk to me like that. Your argument might be that a child, who was taken by a parent's hand and taken to the first grade of elementary school, would pass. I ask you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, did the minister contact you at 10.00 hours, did he enter the Assembly building at 10.00 hours, so you were waiting for the quorum? I'm asking you, did he participate in a radio show, and that's why he didn't come to the O.R.? What would it be worth if you had a quorum here, and you didn't even have it, when it's known there's no minister, what it would be worth when the minister has to submit an opening statement. Don't play with us, Mr. Markovic. You're starting to do what the presidents did before you, except you, perhaps because of your physical constitution, have a slight tone. What you are doing is undemocratic and disrespecting the dignity of the National Assembly. The session didn't begin because Mr. Minister wasn't in the National Assembly building, he was a participant in Radio B-92's "Cagefinger". If that's your radio, tell me, somehow I'll find an excuse. The minister knew at what time the National Assembly session began and was not allowed to schedule that show at the radio station at the time of the National Assembly session. If the session starts at 10.00, don't tell me it's 11.00 a.m. where the session begins. I'm really asking you, if I haven't been involved in politics in these 14 years, I've proven that you can't just translate me thirsty across the water, please don't play with it. You will create a very bad relationship in this congregation. I understand, when the star falls, everyone's afraid. Your political star and political star of your party have fallen into elections and it would be moral for the minister to say - I am resigning because we are not with the citizens of Serbia, and not - I will resign if the budget falls, and before that, he has agreed with the strikers, with those who support him, that he will survive his budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6953	Since you are not satisfied with the answer, the Assembly will declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs that there is no need to express admiration for my constitution. In this individual case, Mr. Nikolic, you asked me if I heard from Mr. Secretary. Of course, I informed Mr. Minister that, because of the meeting of the Assembly delegation with the President of the Slovak Parliament and because there is no quorum, the session will certainly not begin until 10:30. Thank you for letting me know. The assembly will plead. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2004. THE YEAR(principles) Consent to Article 136(1) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. As part of this point, we are considering proposals for decisions to give consent to decisions on changes to the financial plans of compulsory social insurance organisations for 2004: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (g) the Republic Health Insurance Office, (d) the National Employment Service. The government of the Republic of Serbia has put up with everything. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the time to discuss this item of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6955	I'm sorry, Mr. Vlahovic, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I know it's under the Rules of Procedure, but if that's the proposal, we already went through it yesterday. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6956	Since we haven't started a principle debate yet, I suggest just because of the seriousness of the subject. I think this is the most important document that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted in this year and so far, because this will, among other things, be the basis for the adoption of a new budget for 2005, where I also expect a very serious debate from all MPs, and I would suggest that, since we have not yet started the debate, that the time for the debate should be doubled.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6957	I ask the MPs to concentrate a little and listen to what's going on. We'll make a stenographic note available to you, if you weren't there personally, because the principle search is already open, Mr. Vlahovicu. I tried to explain, but you didn't hear. We work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. After the opening of the principled search, of course, the parliamentary groups had previously delivered all the lists for discussion and we opened a search in principle. Be kind and consult the stenographic notes. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Financial Regulation, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 136(1) of the Financial Regulation. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly opened a principled search before Mr Vlahovic's discussion. And now for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6958	Since you have already adopted the Angolan legislation, the precedent has already been in this assembly. It happened, Mr. President, that at eleven o'clock at night, you would extend to twelve at night, to extend to twelve at night, to two at night, until it was over. So the letter on the paper is one thing, and the will of the Assembly is another. Please allow the Assembly to express its will for how long it wants this debate to last and it is simply put to the vote. National MP Vlahovic asked to vote on it. If the majority is in favour of having a debate under the Rules of Procedure, it will be by the Rules of Procedure, and if the majority is in favour of a longer debate, it will be longer, in accordance with the proposal, if it is voted. I'd like to ask you not to throw it away. The fact that we're in opposition right now doesn't put us in the same ranks at all. So, Mr. President, respect democracy. People's MPs ask to make a statement, and you give them that statement, and then you will have a decision before you. Why are you afraid of how long the debate will take, and don't say that handing over discussions by representatives of parliamentary groups is the opening of a debate. The opening of the debate is when the minister comes out here and starts talking about his draft budget law. All the way up to that point are procedural activities in the National Assembly. One of the procedures is to set the time for discussion. So I'm asking that we vote on MP Vlahovic's proposal. If you make a different decision, you from that chair, I ask that we vote immediately on whether or not you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6959	It is my duty to follow the Rules of Procedure and not the exceptions. I believe in the word that in 1998, 1999, or when it was that, but since I've been here, there have been no exceptions. I really don't know. So I wasn't in a position to extend my hours to twelve or make such an exception. I wasn't in a situation. So, I will also stick to the strict, as I have so far, and I hope for the satisfaction of all MPs, Rules of Procedure and the Law. The initial search has begun, and the National Assembly, just after what the National Assembly itself voted for, declares the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6960	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use this introductory right to explain to you the draft budget rebalance for 2004. As you know, in March of this year, when a new government was formed, the budget had temporary funding. Then it was necessary to bring the budget in a very short time. We made the 2004 budget within two weeks, as it was necessary to maintain the stability of the state at that time, as the country's temporary financing was due at the end of March of this year. As you know, last year's budget deficit amounted to 43 billion dinars. Starting with that deficit level, our intention was to keep it at a nominally similar level of 45 billion. We had two weeks to plan that budget, however, it has proved time that this deficit is beyond the potential of our economy. Today we propose budget rebalancing down and it has never happened that the Ministry of Finance goes with reducing public spending when it requires budget rebalancing. We, however, have a responsibility to our society. We ask that public spending be reduced by this budget by 12.6 billion dinars. It's a reduction in public spending by about 1% of this year's social gross product. As you know, regular rebalancing is where public spending increases. This rebalancing, however, does not introduce any new burdens. On the contrary, it is designed to strengthen macroeconomic stability and not to burden the economy. If we're cutting costs, maybe if someone were wondering why the rebalance at all, we could save and not make the budget. However, there are some expenditures that suddenly appeared during this year, such as the need to pay the first tranche towards the London Trustees Club. As you know, we voted the basic budget in March of the month, and in July, the government of the Republic of Serbia successfully concluded negotiations with the London Club of Trustees, so our country was granted a write-off of 62% of the original debt, i.e. $1.7 billion was then written off. With most votes in July, the assembly ratified the agreement, however, the obligation in the agreement, which has been ratified, insists that by the end of October of this year the first tranche to the London Club of Trustees be paid to begin replacing the old debt for new euro bonds in November and December. Of course, it is very important that we now lead the ratified agreement to implementation, implementation in practice, and therefore it is necessary to further allocate funds for this purpose. Also, I will explain in detail, there are other items that are increasing in this budget, but in general, spending is more and more reduced compared to the increase in some others so that we have a reduction in public spending. We have worked very hard to give you this opportunity as detailed as possible of each item in the budget and, as you can see, in relation to the budget that was submitted to this assembly over the previous years, we wanted you to have full insight into each item, how planned it was and how reduced it was. Thus, the budget rebalances total revenues are determined at 329.3 billion dinars, while expenditures are determined at 362 billion dinars. As you can see, income remained unchanged. So, 329.3 billion dinars is the original plan that we have already adopted in this year's budget law, and these revenues will be realised with the dynamics that are planned, with revenue structure, if you noticed, making tax revenues significantly better, but total revenues will be made in the amount of 329.3 billion dinars. This way, the deficit comes down from the previously planned 45.3 billion dinars to 32.7 billion dinars. If we refuse this payment to the London Club of Trustees, it's some amount of about 30 billion dinars. I would like to say that according to international classifications, the payment of the principal debt does not go into the account of the deficit, so we could say that the actual deficit of this budget for this year is about 30 billion dinars, which makes up 2.3% of this year's social gross product. Why does it matter? Because last year the deficit was far higher, 43 billion dinars, and that was then 4% of the social gross product. I'd like to give you comparisons with some other countries in transition. You all know that the criteria for entering the European Monetary Union are the budget deficit below 3% of the social gross product. We will be able to meet this criterion this year, and I must say that many countries in transition are still unable to achieve that criterion. For example, this year the Czech Republic will have a budget deficit of 12% of the social gross product, in Hungary over 6%, in Poland 5%, in Slovakia 3.3%, only Bulgaria has a balanced budget. As for this one-third deficit reduction, it is solely the result of a reduction in public spending, not the possible new growth of income. There will be no additional tax or imposition, on the contrary, the urgency is that they are further reduced in the future. This is exclusively the result of a reduction in public spending. I have to say that this is how the projected budget is real, because if you look at the realization in the first nine months of this year, Serbia had a 19.2 billion dinar deficit in the budget. So up to 32.7 there's a significant space for the last quarter. Income in the first nine months was 235.6 billion and expenditure was 254.8. I must point out that in the third quarter, expenditure, i.e. that in the last quarter, the budget deficit amounted to only two billion dinars, which is a record low budget deficit. Of course, this deficit this year is financed exclusively from real resources. Also, I would like to point out, unlike last year, the finance ministry did not take a single dinar from the primary show of the National Bank of Serbia, not a single dinar from business banks, which was the case in the previous year. So we mostly financed our own income budget, from tax revenues that, due to far more efficient work of the tax administration, increased 21.2% in 9 months this year compared to the same period last year. I want to say that this budget deficit in the third quarter of this year is only two billion, even nine times lower than the deficit achieved in the previous year in the fourth quarter, when there was a sudden expansion of public spending, which is why we feel the consequences in the economy and today. The expansion of public spending in the last quarter last year, when the deficit recorded as much as 18 billion dinars, led to a sharp deterioration in the external trade deficit, primarily in the first quarter of this year due to excessive public sector wages growth in the last quarter. This year, it was translated well into imports of foreign goods, leading to an increase in the external trade deficit. The increase in the external trade deficit in this year was also affected by the fall in customs rates in August of last year, following the adoption of the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Two Markets, Serbia-Montenegro. The external trade deficit, which is higher than last year, is also affected by social factors, which is insufficiently large and high quality domestic goods for export. We have good goods, but we don't have enough of these goods to export. Although exports this year, expressed in euros, have grown to a real 10%, I think it's clear that we have to go far enough to increase that amount. Why are structural changes needed? Structural changes require time. As for tax revenues, I have already noted, they are about 21% higher this year compared to the previous year. The biggest growth was made in the charge of excise duties, primarily excise tobacco. There has been a 30% growth compared to the same period last year and the black cigarette market is now reduced to a minimum, only 5% to 7% of the market currently represents illegal cigarette traffic. Everything else is legal, which is a drastic difference compared to the period of the 1990s. Also, sales tax has been increased. Sales tax has been increased by 22%. One part is the result of the introduction of fiscal registers, over 80,000 fiscal till the end of the year there will be over 100,000. The tax on property was increased by 20% compared to the same period last year, and these are items in tax revenues that had the highest growth. The target of the 2004 budget was and remains unchanged. So, the goal I explained in March of this year, one of the important objectives is the indirect incentive to economic growth, the second goal is to maintain macroeconomic stability and the third objective is to regularly pay salaries in all public services, pensions, unemployment benefits and all social benefits. As for the first goal, I can say that this year there has been a slight recovery of the economy. If you remember, when we projected this year's budget, we started assuming that the social gross product would grow at a rate of 4.3% this year. However, it will be twice as big as it was designed and we will end this year with the growth of the social gross product between 7% and 9%. It is the highest rate of economic growth achieved in Serbia in the last 26 years. Although I will always say, the starting point is very low, given that industrial production dropped by about 3% last year and agricultural production by about 6%. This year we have growth in industrial production, which will be between 6% and 7%. In the first 8 months, it is 7%, with 10% in the processing industry. We'll have a growth in agricultural production of at least 12.5%. Of course, we've had a birth year, and that's a good part of the result of natural circumstances. As for other sectors, this year in traffic, construction and trade, we will achieve two-digit growth rates, which will make this year's social gross product grow by this very high amount between 7% and 9%. As for macroeconomic stability, as you know, we had a slight breakthrough in the sector price, because inflation was projected at 8.5%. In the first nine months, however, it is 9.2%. What I'm saying is that about 3% of this inflation is a direct impact of an increase in oil prices on the world market, so these are factors that no government in the world, which has any oil sources, we don't have to some extent, can affect. If we refused those three percent, inflation would be about 6% in those nine months, which is within what we projected at the beginning of this year. In mid-2004, and seeing these developments in the price field, we were forced to react to restrictive monetary policy measures and to introduce a tough budgetary limit in the public finances system. As for the monetary policy measure, they led to the growth of foreign reserves in August and September for about $350m and to the full establishment of macroeconomic stability at domestic prices. As for the budgetary limit, it has already resulted in a record low deficit in the third quarter of only two billion dinars. It is now quite clear that this rebalancing brings public consumption into real terms and that this also affects the consolidation of macroeconomic stability, as well as the mitigation of the external trade deficit. The problem of the external trade deficit cannot be solved by fiscal measures, nor by monetary measures. Structural measures are needed which have not been sufficiently implemented in previous years. It's started this year. However, the process is short for structural measures, it takes time. As for the source of funding for the deficit, the privatisation revenues will take part this year in funding the deficit of 5.5 billion dinars, from donations and loans, are projected to cover the deficits of 8.9 billion and the net domestic financing of 18.3 billion dinars. I'd like to say something about all three sources of deficit financing. As you know, in the budget plan, privatisation revenues were planned on as many as 16 billion dinars. However, the biggest abortion was also reached. 1,700,000 dinars of privatisation revenues were realised. However, most of these revenues have been achieved in the last two months. In September alone, 780 million, in August 260 million. So, a billion dinars in the previous two months, which means that the privatisation process, and since Mr. Bubalo took over the coordination of this sector, has come to life, and we're going to have about 140 auction privatisations and 15 tenders scheduled by the end of this year. As far as privatisation is concerned, it does not have as much importance for the budget as it has in speeding up the restructuring of the economy and the change in the structure I was talking about, in order to reduce the external trade deficit and increase exports to the medium term. As for donations and loans, no dollar donations went into the budget this year. As for the loan, we've withdrawn 2.5 billion dinars so far and that's the World Bank's loan. We expect two more World Bank loans: one this month and the last in December. With the European Union's macro-financial assistance, we planned together for donations and loans to participate in funding the deficits of 8.9 billion dinars. The net domestic funding accounts for three sources. First, these are the privatisation revenues of the previous year, which amounted to over 10 billion dinars. Then, the broadcasting of charters from the value of the Treasury's Treasury, therefore, of borrowings on the capital market. The third potential source, which has not yet been used, is bank loans. The 18.3 billion deficit cover is planned to go from net domestic funding. As for the World Bank loan that was made in July of this year, so far we haven't spent that loan until September of the month, so we left it to cover the deficits in the next quarter. I want to say one more thing about privatisation. As you know, there are currently three privatisation tenders in the banking sector. One tender will end by the end of this year, and we expect far greater revenue than that indicated in the budget. We intend to save one part of the funds and transfer to cover the deficit in 2005, given that the sales tax has been abolished since 1 January and is replaced by a value added tax, at a rate that is 2% lower. The first payment of value added tax will only reach February 10th. To fund the budget regularly in the first month and a half of the following year, we will leave one reserve aside so that, as so far, we can regularly settle all our obligations. As for economic growth, several factors have affected this economic growth. The first factor is to improve the business climate, which began in the previous period. This year it's been passed a whole series of laws. You know for a fact that this assembly has passed over 30 laws, a good part of which improves the business climate. In addition to improving the business climate, privatisation from the previous year has affected greater economic growth this year, as well as foreign direct investment, because they mean not only the inflow of money into the country, but the opening and opening of new markets that these investors bring with them. As for the tax policy measures that have contributed to improving the business climate this year, which this assembly voted on, I would only mention some. We've abolished the fund tax on July 1st, which is 3.5% on gross earnings. Also, on our proposal, the Assembly abolished the financial transaction tax. The tax ceases to apply from 1 January 2005. Taxes on the use of mobile phones have been abolished, and since 1 January 2005, no fees will be paid even when buying credit cards for prepaid users. The tax for the use of boats, hunting weapons has been abolished, excise duties on lye oil, motor oil and oil, jet fuel and jet fuel, on lighting oil, methyl-alcohol, on domestic refreshing non-alcoholic beverages and, most importantly, reduced the profit tax to 10%, and the lowest profit tax rate in Europe. We already have a lot of investors who, precisely because of the reduction in profit taxes, will move some of their production from Eastern European countries, which entered the European Union on 1 May, to Serbia. As for fiscal adjustment, i.e. reduction of public spending, we have some items that are increased by the rebalancing of this budget, but a significantly greater reduction in other items. First of all, I'm going to talk to you about these items we're up against. So we have an increase in one group of expenditures by 12.1 billion dinars, and on the other hand, the other group of expenditure is reduced by 24.7 billion dinars. The net reduction is 12.6 billion dinars, as I said before. As for expenditure on rebalancing, transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations are the first priority. These transfers are increasing by 8.4 billion dinars. This is about increased pension transfers, both for PIO employees and for farmers' pensions, and for unemployment benefits. The budget rebalance envisions an increase in the transfer of the PIO fund to the employees of 3.1 billion dinars, up from the original budget of 3.3 billion dinars. Total transfers to mandatory social security organisations this year will reach 88 billion dinars, accounting for one quarter of this year's budget. Translated from the gross social product, it is as much as 6.7% of the social gross product, and here we see where to work in the coming years. We therefore have a deficit of 2.3% of the social gross product, and only covering pension fund deficits and the National Employment Service is 6.7%. That's two and a half times that. So, reforming the pension system is something we'll be working on, or any government has to work on in the coming years. We have already prepared the Law on Voluntary Pension Insurance, which will be the second pillar in the reform of the pension system, and it will be before you very soon for consideration. Why do we need additional transfers to the Pension Fund? This year we will deliver 71 billion dinars to the Pension Fund. So the total transfer to the Pension Fund is 71 billion dinars, and if we compare that to the subsidies in the economy, which are 6.5 billion dinars this year, we'll see that it's ten times higher, or ten times more is set aside to transfer and cover the pension fund deficit. This year, the Pension Fund planned to receive five billion dinars in the name of the transfer from privatisation. But only a billion and a half have been achieved. That's the difference we make up for through this increased transfer, through budget rebalance. As far as farmers' pensions are concerned, it's a simple matter. We have a small collection of contributions from the farmer. The Agricultural Pensions Fund plans to charge 4.1 billion in contribution, with only 700 million dinars charged. The difference now needs to be compensated through an increased budget transfer to the Pension Fund of Farmers. When it comes to the National Employment Service, smaller contributions have also been made in the first ten months than planned and then it is necessary to make up for it by an additional transfer of two billion dinars. The situation has been improved since the first of September by a new law on contributions, when the rate is i.e. The unemployment benefits rose from 1.1% to 1.5%, and I must say that this is one of the two lowest unemployment rates in Europe. So, objectively, the contribution for the unemployed is low compared to all other countries. That totals 8.8 billion. The second major item is the first payment of debt to the London Trust Club. We planned 2.4 billion more for this budget than was planned to pay off our country's total foreign debt. Gentlemen, I would like to present to you the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, so that you have a complete picture of the state of our country's responsibility, as it is the subject of many speculations in the public. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to $13.8 billion on 31 December 2003. On August 31st 2004, therefore a month ago, public debt was reduced to $11.8 billion, and the total now accounts for 56% of the social gross product. Four years ago, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 150% of the social gross product, and now we managed to bring it down to below 60%, which is also one of the criteria for entering the European Monetary Union, so-called master criteria. This is the result, above all, of the write-offs we received from the London Trustees Club of 1,700,000 dollars, as well as this year's payments of old foreign exchange savings, which reduced our domestic public debt. Out of the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which is $11.8 billion at the moment, the internal debt is $4.9 billion, and the external debt is $6.9 billion. So the internal debt accounts for 40% of the total public debt, while the external debt account for 60% of the total public debt. When we talk about public debt, we're talking about that debt guaranteed by the state, either directly or through guarantees to public enterprises, that's what directly falls on the burden of the state and the actual taxpayers. It is obvious that public debt is 2.5 times smaller this year than in December 2000, and as far as this rebalancing is concerned, you know that an agreement has been reached on this rebalance, among other things, with the IMF, and since the completion of the three-year arrangement with this international financial institution depends on an additional 15 per cent write-off to the Paris Club of Trustees. As for the Paris Club, before the write-off, the debt to the Paris Club was $4.5 billion, and today, after a 51% write-off, it is $2.6 billion, and in the middle of next year, which I hope, when we finish the three-year arrangement, an additional amount of funds will be written off, so that the debt will come down to only $1.9 billion. So, we're about 700 million dollars away from the Paris Trustees Club in the middle of next year. In this way, public debt will be reduced to about 50 per cent. It is a realistically sustainable public debt, if every year we record the growth of the social product between four and five percent. This year, as you can see, we're going to have between 7% and 9%. However, it is important for this country to serve external and internal debt neatly because of credibility and domestically. You know that this year 440,000 savings were paid to pay off the old foreign currency savings. About $290m has already been paid by the states by September 30th to those owed on the basis of old foreign savings, so public debt is not a small item. The domestic public debt accounts for 40% of the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is necessary, among other things, to adopt a rebalancing system, so that this obligation to the London Club, which is favourable to us, is settled. As for the old foreign savings, that's the third item that we increase by the rebalance of this budget. We have suggested that the split for the payment of old foreign savings for this year increase by 600 million dinars, so the total amount for the payment of old foreign exchange savings and this year's liabilities on the basis of loans for economic renaissance will amount to a total of 18 billion dinars. I already said that 250m dollars were paid, 450,000 savings received their money, at 530 euros this year, and, as you know, after 15 years, this government also began to serve the Serbian Economic Revival Loan as of 1 September. The fourth item, which we propose to increase in this year's budget, but by one truly minimal amount compared to the other figures, are salaries, primarily salaries intended for education and culture, based on an agreement reached with education unions on salary increases in November by 2.5%, as well as cultural unions. However, this increase in the budget is only 370m dinars and is a small amount compared to other items. We also propose an increase in the transfer of AP Vojvodina by 420 million dinars, as well as additional funds to municipalities by 375 million dinars. These additional funds provide municipalities with the completion of this year's plans for the development of municipalities in both southern Serbia and UNDP programmes and the international organisation CHF. So 375 million dinars included transfers to all those municipalities that do not have this year in line with the budget plan plus additional funds to assist municipalities in southern Serbia to complete the implementation of this programme. These are expenditures that, according to the government, should be increased. However, on the other hand, we propose a far greater reduction in the second group of expenditure, by 24.6 billion dinars. Now let me tell you something about the expenses we planned to cut. First, the maximum amount of transfers to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro -- six billion dinars. Of which transfers, for an army of 5,650,000 dinars. Well, even though it's a big number, I'd like to give you a detailed explanation. This will not compromise the normal work of the military, for the simple reason that only 29.3 billion dinars were made for this year to 24 September, so there is only one large space left for execution in the third quarter. The rebalancing of the army's budget from 46.8 to 41.2 billion, but the execution so far is about 30 billion. So, the army has another 11 billion for the last quarter and has already been enabled to pay increased salaries in the army since October 1st. 8.5% have increased wages because they did not have an increase as some other groups this year. It's a September salary, which was already paid in early October. The military will also have a larger space in the last quarter for carrying out material expenditure compared to the third quarter, when indeed rigorous austerity measures have been introduced, resulting in a reduction in deficits, there are only two billion in the quarter. This represents a decrease in the total budget from 14.2% of expenditure to 13.06%. So a little more than 1% in total expenditure. However, since it is a large number that is planned, that is why it is an absolutely large amount. The second major item to be reduced is subsidies. Also, 1% of expenditure reduces subsidies and total cuts in rebalancing by five billion dinars, out of which subsidies to public non-financial institutions 3.7 billion dinars and public financial institutions by a billion and 300 million dinars. In fact, with the reduction of subsidies to public financial institutions, the implementation of these subsidies will be only 200 million this year. In fact, these planned subsidies are completely abolished because we felt there was no need for them to be realised, because the situation in the financial sector is far better than the situation in the economy. As for the reduction of subsidies to public non-financial institutions, I would like to say that railway subsidies and mines with underground exploitation have been retained at the same level. There has been a reduction in subsidies in the economy and in agriculture. As for the reduction of subsidies in the economy, total subsidies are a reduction of a billion and 300 million dinars, and in agriculture by a billion and 500 million dinars. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, I must say that no programme that has begun to implement so far will be questioned, but some programmes, whose realization has not begun, will not be realised this year. First of all, it is about measures to improve the quality of milk. It was the idea of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is really good, for free peasants, cattlemen to be divided by devices called lactofrizes. Nine hundred million dinars were allocated this year for the item to improve the quality of milk. However, this year we do not have the money for that measure. This measure was neither published nor implemented. The second item to be reduced is measures to improve the productivity of agricultural holdings. Also, it's a program that's well designed, but simply this year won't be realized. However, this year, we have already paid off eight billion dinars of subsidies in agriculture, out of which the payment of the wheat premiums has been completed, at an amount far greater than planned for the budget. This year's wheat subsidies spent a billion and 700 million dinars, plus the money previously spent on stock reserves, over a billion dinars, before this harvest began. Also, what I'm saying is that the loan scheme in agriculture will be fully implemented. Thus, short-term loans have already been made in the planned amount of billions and 700 million dinars and 28 000 agricultural households this year received these 25m-euro loans. As for long-term loans, about 500 million dinars have been paid so far, 265 credits have been granted so far, and there are still about a billion dinars left to be paid by the end of this year, given that a far more effective procedure has now been put in place in relation to the business bank, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Development Fund, and that the stock does not have to be established immediately, but nine months to one year after the villagers receive the money. Now this process will be much faster. As far as agriculture is concerned, I repeat, all the programmes that have begun will be implemented by the end of this year, but these two programmes that were planned will not even begin this year, but we will leave them for some better time. On the other hand, as far as economic subsidies are concerned, you know that in the meantime the first privatisation of a restructuring company, which has been announced for years, has been completed, but is finally realized only now in September of this year. It's Livnica in Kikinda. They had 500 million dinars of subsidies in the previous three years, so that the company was removed from subsidies. Many companies that are smaller and are privatised at auction privatisation are also being stripped of subsidies. What is certain is that, for the last three months of this year, it has remained in the budget, and thus reduced, another billion and a half dinars to pay off subsidies in the economy, and so far, about five billion have been realised in the first nine months. So there's plenty of money left, according to our estimates, to settle subsidies in the economy. However, the government's strategic commitment is to gently reduce subsidies in the economy, because what subsidies in the economy mean. It is state or social enterprises, which are inefficient in business, have losses and are asking all taxpayers of Serbia through the government for money to cover their losses. It is clear that some companies cannot quickly resolve these losses. These losses came years ago, but simply to motivate management, which in social enterprises has no motive to go into the privatisation process, regardless of the losses being recorded, to move into the process, it is necessary to gently reduce these subsidies, in order for new owners to take care of businesses, not Serbia's taxpayers. So the goal is that one day we don't have any subsidies in the economy, but that we have a completely competitive economic sector. Of course, it's not possible to finish overnight, but we have to go slowly with the reduction of these subsidies. We think this is one of the key structural measures to improve the quality of our economy. I'll give you a few examples for which this government has no merit. I want, indeed, extremely objectively, as the minister responsible for this country's public finances, to speak to you today for the next few days. Here's an example of Sartide. Sartid was the company with the biggest losses in Serbia. One third of Serbia's battery went to cover the loss of Sartide. It was a completely unspective company, because it couldn't find the export market. By taking over from this multinational company U.S. Steel, Sartid has increased 40% this year's production. Export blew up. The price of steel on the world market is also favourable, but the social problem is definitely solved, people are working. We need to find solutions for other companies, such as RTB Bor, such as the flag. They will now be on subsidies, they remain on subsidies, but we need to find strategic partners in a year or two to provide a long-term future for these companies and for the safety of employees, as well as to increase exports from our country. However, some large enterprises remain on subsidies this year, but we want to slow down a large number of small subsidies for small enterprises to motivate them to speed up the restructuring and privatisation process. As for other expenditures whose reduction we are proposing, we have also proposed a reduction in the items - buildings and construction facilities, about five billion dinars in total. I have to say, within the framework of that item in all ministries, it has been reduced as much as possible, proportionately, but yet the biggest reduction has been made in the section of the Roads Directorate. As far as the Road Directorate is concerned, I'd like to introduce this assembly to another piece of information. Only in the middle of this year, not during this year's budget-making, was it found that the previous Ministry of Traffic carried out the ministry's borrowing last year, higher than the expenditures shown in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In other words, works were carried out in 2003, and on a copy of these papers were written notes of 4.4 billion dinars. It wasn't paid, it didn't go into expenditure for last year. So, last year's deficit of 43 billion dinars was not 43 billion dinars, it was higher by at least 4.4 billion dinars. This has come to pay the new government, the new Ministry of Capital Investment. Of those 4.4 billion, three billion have already been paid this year, but from the funds planned in the budget this year. What had to be done this year is to raise tolls, to increase its own revenue from the Road Directorate, to settle, on the one hand, the debts of the previous government towards the builders and to keep the road construction dynamics at the planned level this year. As a finance minister, I think it's done a lot to pave the way this year. After a long time, there is also part of Corridor 10 on the Grdelička gorge and in the coming years, through co-operation with international financial organisations and through concessions, we will further speed up the work on the revitalisation of the road network. The next item that has been reduced is the budget reserve. It has been cut by 2.7 billion dinars compared to originally planned. Item - machines and equipment for a billion dinars, proportional to all ministries. All other items are reduced below a billion dinars, between 100 million and 500 million dinars: fixed costs, material costs, current repairs and maintenance, specialized services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to conclude that reducing budget deficits by one-third will help maintain this year's economic growth, will allow us to continue this economic growth next year. It will also allow us to maintain macroeconomic stability. It will also alleviate the problem of the external trade deficit, whose permanent solution is only possible through structural measures. And this budget shows that it also has a structural character and structural changes are something that is due to the adoption of this budget rebalancing. However, what is the basic conclusion, as regards the finance ministry, is that smaller public spending represents a larger framework for private investment. With the reduction of public spending, for which the maltenes have all stood for in previous years, finally happens for the first time in this year's rebalancing -- a space for the spread of private investment is being opened. The reduction of public spending actually means that the state will no longer increase taxes but will, on the contrary, lower them and that there is room for greater economic growth through savings in public finances. I expect, as finance minister of the Republic of Serbia, the support of all parties to vote on budget rebalances, all those parties in the interest of Serbia's stability. This isn't the finance ministry's budget, this isn't even the government's budget, this is the national budget. This is the budget that enables our agreed commitments, which this assembly has ratified, with the London Trustees Club, and which allow pensions and benefits for the unemployed to be regularly serviced as they have been financed so far. In the end, I would say that those who do not vote, despite this exhaustive argument that I have tried to give you, because you have the right to know every detail about Serbia's public finances, because this is the largest home and the largest democratic body of Serbia, all those who do not vote for budget rebalancing, must know what they are doing. Those who do not vote for this rebalancing, in fact, are indirectly voting to end the contract with the London Club of Trustees and deprive our country of $1,700,000, and we spent three years negotiating it. Those who do not vote in favour of this rebalancing also question a three-year arrangement with the IMF, as this rebalancing is fully in line with the government's economic policy programme, which also received approval from the IMF. I remember when we adopted the 2004 budget, that some MPs criticised that he would not receive IMF support. However, after a year of rest, it was this government that restored relations with the IMF. We reached an agreement in June with them, resulting in the payment of two $150m loan tranches aimed at strengthening the National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves. Unless a rebalancing vote is passed, a three-year arrangement with this most important international financial institution is in question, and thus an additional write-off from the Paris Club of Trustees. Finally, unless this rebalancing is passed, except that Serbia will not be able to meet its international obligations, one half of the pension in December, one benefit for the unemployed, as well as payment of agricultural pensions are also at stake. I mean, this isn't the kind of thing that political differences are supposed to be about. This is about fulfilling the state's obligations to the citizens of Serbia. So I urge you, in the end, to all support this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6961	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the government of the Republic of Serbia today, so all the ministers in the government, because this budget rebalances equally all the positions of individual ministers, and we would have a lot to ask the Minister of Capital Investments, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economy, who, however, is not there, but we have the Coordinator of the Minister of Economy. That, I suppose, speaks enough about how much the government respects the Serbian Parliament and I thank Minister Dinkic for his presence here, and of course the Minister of Faith, who is also present, but it seems to me that this budget will not pass even with the presence of the Minister of Faith. I will explain the reasons why I believe that by adopting budget rebalancing, our country will have even greater problems in the field of economic policymaking. So, firstly, the minister said this is the first time the National Assembly has adopted budget rebalances where expenditures are shrinking and this seems to me to be the first such case observed in relation to the entire environment, countries in transition. Why? Because there is one simpler instrument, which is to reduce the level of implementation of budget commitments, and then we MPs wouldn't have to spend hours and days discussing rebalancing, and the government could continue to realise its economic policy. He didn't say two things that are essentially the reason for the budget rebalancing debate. First, it is that pensions, that other rights are unrealized by the March of this year budget, which we pointed to in time and, if you look at the stenographic notes from that session, you will see that we have indicated that there is, in addition to the budget deficit, an additional fund deficit of five billion dinars, which will make it impossible to pay off pensions by the end of the year. And if for nothing else, that's why you're going to have to go with the budget rebalance. Of course, then our criticisms are not well understood, and now this well-intentioned argument arises as a key argument why MPs of the Democratic Party should vote for this budget. Speaking of this message, Mr. Minister, that whoever does not vote for the budget, or budget rebalance, is against the pensioners, the IMF, the London Club, and also beyond, firstly, we are not, Mr. Minister, against the pensioners and against pension payments. It seems to me that you, therefore your government, are actually at risk of paying off your pensions by the end of the year, and that's a fact. As we are not against the IMF, we are absolutely in favour of co-operation with the IMF, and we talked about it in March, when we said that the budget is what it is, populist rather than developmental, and that it will not be able to endure. In March, it was said by IMF experts, and I really don't understand why we didn't then discuss different proportions of budgetary expenditures and budget revenues. As we are not against the agreement with the London Club, this is what we voted on here, and our government has done most of the work from 2001 to 2003, so that this arrangement could be concluded at all in 2004. If we start by not voting for the budget we're against the IMF, then last year, while you were the opposition, not voting for the proposed budget, you were in fact against the IMF. We never used that argument, but, as you know, despite the budget's failure to vote, despite the start of a debate on the government's trust, pensioners regularly received their pensions until March last year, all social rights were regularly paid, because the budget was set realistically. The budget rebalancing mirrored one government's economic policies in the previous period. The budget is a key instrument for the realisation of economic policy, and when we discuss rebalancing then we take down accounts and we say what was done in the previous period. That mirror of economic policy, carried out over the past few months, looks very bad. I will try based on statistical data to say what the results of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are. We were most criticised that we had enormously increased the trade deficit, which in the last year was $4.2 billion. This year's trade deficit will be 6.1 billion dollars and will be 50% higher. It can't be connected to the work of the previous government. That's the result of this government's economic policy. Last year's payment deficit amounted to 2.1 billion dollars, and in this year it will be $3 billion. It's a 50% increase again. That's the result of this government's economic policy. Foreign direct investment this year, in the first eight months, is $380 million, and I'm not going to compare them at all with what was achieved last year, but I want to tell you that 70% of these 380 million dollars is a privatisation payment that was made last year and has nothing to do with the work of this government. Like the direct investment of Greenfield, the famous Beijing, which is scheduled to start working from May next year, is an investment agreed in March 2003. So, when the conditions were obtained, the tape was cut. He didn't cut off whoever was responsible for that investment, but what do we do, that's life. As the rate of total investment, private and public, is no greater for any change this year than it was in last year, although in March there was some kind of development budget that should raise the level of economic activity, etc. What happened to spending? What happened to the pay? Salaries grow faster than gross social product grows. That means the wages don't follow productivity. What is the consequence, or what is causing it? The reason is that today, whenever someone blocks one road, the state acts wastefully and pays off all the demands. This is, among other things, the cause of raised inflation expectations, which took place especially in June and July in our country, and among other things because the government was working on a populist campaign, because the budget was a reflection, picture and mirror of exactly the populist campaign. And then when it started to run, then the problem was to keep inflation in the frameworks that were planned, and then there's an explanation and it's said that inflation has grown in our country because the world's oil price has increased. What difference does the world price of oil have to do with inflation in our country, when we neither increase oil prices nor increase energy prices, because the state treats the oil industry administratively, in light of those great times of the 1990s. So, on the one hand, he runs a policy of rigid prices, and on the other hand, nothing works on NIS restructuring. Tomorrow we'll all pay the price. They will pay taxpayers, as we paid the price in 2001 by restructureing the EPS and re-uplifting NIS's feet. So it's not inflation and it's not inflationary expectations because there's been a shift in international and world environments, it's inflationary expectations that have arisen because the business environment has been violated, because the risk has been raised because a populist policy has been tried to break into economic policy, and these are the results that we have today. In April, there was a lot of talk about how the new government had no intention of firing people, but rather intended to hire them. When we talked about the level of funds that needed to be allocated to the transition fund to continue the restructuring process, let's see what happened to employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6963	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6964	Yeah, I want to use the other 10 minutes. Let's see what happened for employment. You know where she grows up? Only in state institutions. Employment has dropped 2.4% in the last eight months. So this is the result of the employment policy that was promised in the previous period. Then what? What remains of the government, but fortunately not to the government, but to the governor of the central bank, to stop inflationary expectations by raising the minimum reserve rate. Then what's going on? Then there is no such credit fund to finance the economy and then further threatens further economic growth and development. This is the result of the economic policy that has been implemented in the last seven months. Infringed all macroeconomic indicators, of the deficits, so we have to change the budget over those key ones that concern the external trade deficit, the balance deficit, inflation that of 9.5, will be over 12% this year, and primarily thanks to this policy. What's good? Not to be all bad, it's good that the social gross product is growing and it's going to be 8% this year, maybe more, but I have to disappoint you, it's not thanks to the government's economic measures. Agriculture is growing thanks to good weather, and the volume of industrial production is growing thanks to what we did in the previous privatisation period, which you could hear just a moment from Mr. Minister's exposure. But there's always bad behind the good news. The potentials of privatisation growth have exhausted, so since November you can expect a decline in the volume of industrial production thanks to your particular private sector development policy, and this is the policy that creates a stable macroeconomic framework. And what stability we have, they're best at telling you about this foreign investor council statement, which they say -- the state, stop interfering in economic life, let us do business normally in the removed barriers within a stable macroeconomic framework. Therefore, by stopping privatisation, by opening the so-called The affair, you drove investors away from this country and then, with a lack of privatisation income, there was a budget problem, there were inflationary expectations, and that's why we have all these indicators as they are in the previous period. To spend the next seven minutes commenting on the positions given in the budget rebalance. First, budget revenues. If we do a detailed calculation of macroeconomic sizes and we reject all those tax charges that happened under the law, which the minister here explained and add all the additional tax burdens created by the amendments to the Excise Act, above all, because it is not mentioned here that key excise goods have been subject to an increase in excise duties, you will see that the tax burden is at the same level. Then I wonder -- how is it possible that incomes are the same as they were projected? Now I'll explain why. Because income correction was made on the assumption of 9% inflation and 4% of GDP growth. We'll have a 9% growth and a 12% inflation. Just by adding these sizes, we had to have more income than what the budget shows, even in the given rebalancing. What happened? If the tax administration hadn't failed to pay, might the tax administration not be leading a sound tax policy; I don't know, I expect an answer to the questions during the debate. Let's see what happens to the deficit. So, we admit there's no income from privatisation, we've warned you in time, consult the stenographic notes from March, that the plan has been unrealized, and now we're going to go to a 5 billion figure, and that's why we're cutting expenses. What expenses? Cressing investment, reducing investment, and increasing personal consumption. Is that the development budget we talked about in March? Of course not. This is an additional reduction in public investment, which will further affect reduced economic activity in the coming period. I'm asking a question -- if we're so short on privatisation income, why are some obvious odds in the past period not used? We had a month ago the possibility of the action fund simply, without any complications, selling its 42% and taking 40m euros, and the budget getting three billion dinars and with those three billion dinars not to reduce the position defined by the Ministry of Capital Investments. I don't know how the Minister of Capital Investments, I'm sorry he's not here, will explain why there's no such money planned this year, as I don't know how the Minister of Agriculture will explain that there are no subsidies in the agricultural budget planned this year. Privatisation revenue has lagged due to the nascent privatisation policy that was led in the previous period. If you wanted to change the law, you should have done it in March. If you wanted to control all the privatisations, which is your legal obligation, you should have done it under the law of a defined procedure, there's no big jew. Not a political, non-professional way of using a very important area for our country, which means creating a risk of investment that will further endanger all these macroeconomic positions that I spoke of. What's increasing here in the deficit, or in the sources of deficit coverage? There's an increase in net borrowing, domestic government debt. What's the consequence? Additional censorship of free credit funds to go to the economy. What will be the consequence? Even less the source of growth potential. Is that the budget the DS is supposed to support? It will not support the budget, i.e. budget rebalance, which continues to lead to a reduction in economic activity in our country. It will not support a rebalancing that does not show a bold measure of restructuring of public enterprises, but that shows administration of public enterprises, does not support a rebalancing that does not see a reduction in personal consumption in public consumption, rather than a reduction in investments that we need through. It will not support him for the simple reason that he does not believe that further economic policy can benefit our country, for the benefit of those key steps that need to be taken in the economic transition, so that we eventually have a place where we belong, in the European Union. We discussed that declaration a few days ago, voted for it yesterday. Please, give us a budget that will allow us to get closer to the EU, not a step further from the EU. Let's move on, because I don't want to take more time than I have, to those populist promises. How is now going to explain to the unions, with whom you've been so easy to flirt, that there's no money for companies in the deep financial crisis, that there's no free subsidies. I don't want to criticise this, but I want to criticise the populism behind the March budget this year. How not only the reduction of subsidies for the economy will be explained. I know the easiest thing for you to do is cut the military budget, because the military isn't strikein'. No matter how much you give her, the army has to be satisfied, no strikes. But it's not true that the most sensitive positions are shrinking. It reduces the position of material costs, reduces the position of investments, purchases of machinery and equipment. I'm no military expert, but I'm guessing that directly leads to the battle of our army. Is that our goal? Look, gentlemen, MPs, positions, and then discuss it. If it decreases on the material, on the purchase of machinery and equipment, then it decreases on investment. If there are no investments, how can you expect one institution to function in quality. In the end, if I don't take more time than I've been given, we won't vote for budget rebalancing because the redistribution of expenditure reduces them to the burden of investment, not the burden of personal spending, because we don't see any effort made to reduce the costs of the state administration. We will not vote in favour of the budget because we do not want to amneste the government's poor economic policy in the previous period, and not by voting for the budget, we are just going to allow us to be a step closer to the European Union, better co-operation with the IMF and to meet all obligations towards the London Club. And, of course, it will do one far more responsible, much more professional, much more professional government, which, instead of populism, will actually do what needs to be done in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6965	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6966	Just for a little while, so you don't forget to comment on what my predecessor was saying. The reason the DS will not support the budget is because it does not reduce personal consumption in public consumption. I would like to ask one question to the former minister who participated in the work of the last government: why, if the government passed so bravely, did 18 billion deficits in the fourth quarter of the election? Why it affected the growth of that personal consumption, whose reduction now requires a new government. Now you're asking this government to freeze all wages, and you paid 18 billion before the 2003 elections. Is that a real economy? You say there is no effort to restructure public enterprises. What efforts the previous government made over three years to restructure the public enterprises. It's only now that we're going into the process. You're talking about the foreign trade deficit. How is it possible that there is no growth in the external trade deficit if, and I have already mentioned, you increase 18 billion deficits in the fourth quarter, and that money goes into personal incomes. And what people are going to do instead of buying goods from abroad, and in the first quarter, you have a boom external trade deficit. How is it possible that this year there is no growth of the external trade deficit if in August, for example, you halved the customs duties for domestic biscuits and, I don't know, for our conditor industry, so now foreign goods are being imported? You're saying it's justified that one part of foreign direct investment is an indirect effect of direct investment from last year, but you have to be consistent and say that growth is also an external trade deficit, and that personal consumption which is why you now boldly tell us to freeze wages, the result of errors made especially in the last quarter of last year by the previous government, because that's the only truth, nothing else, everything else is demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6967	Mr. Vlahovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6968	First of all, I have to say that my criticisms, a little bit, sent to the government, are the least directed to the finance minister, who objectively in that government has made the most efforts to make such a continuity. But unfortunately, the effort was in vain. Why did we make 18 billion dinars? We've created a deficit that's covered from real sources. That's the difference between you and me. You have a deficit that you don't know how to cover. We had a deficit that we covered from real sources, so as far as, Mr. Minister, consistency, do you remember the strike of health workers in September and October last year, and when we previously had the privatisation of the Duvan industry, and when you and your opposition party taught them to ask for money for bigger salaries, because the government has income from privatisation. That's what you said when you were an opposition, and now you're saying another song. Of course, we did not give in to strikes, in front of blockades, because no matter how unpopular that may be, and these unpopular moves reduce political points, we are a responsible political party who is willing to sacrifice its political credibility for the interests of the state. That's what we showed. I agree with you that you have made efforts to restructure public enterprises, but in the opposite direction. And you put back what we did before, and it's best seen at the EPS: we just had a deal with the unions, you started the process of detaching underground mines, you put it back, and now we're starting over. As you know, and you were at the time as governor of the NBJ involved in the restructuring of public enterprises, we had completed projects to start working on restructuring public enterprises, but we had an unstable political situation. What I've always told you, if in the first year of government, a new government that by definition must have the highest credibility, the greatest political power, don't do it, so you start in the second year, because only then will you not be able to do it. That's what I'm saying very well on purpose. This deficit story for the next year of 10 billion, I am very interested in how it will go in this House, not with us, but with your political friends who support you and who today form a political coalition, because I am convinced that it is contrary to political programs... (President: Mr. Vlahovic, time. ) Just one more sentence, I apologize, when it comes to consistency and the appearance of the trade deficit, as you told me to be consistent, I tell you, be consistent in the government, so don't blame the growth of industrial production in the first quarter for your credit, because it has nothing to do with this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6969	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, head of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6970	Let's wait for the appulse to end and bow down to Mr. Vlahovic for the rest of his MPs. When we talk about the budget in the National Assembly, we can always talk about two reasons. Political parties supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia will always try to represent the defence of the budget proposal, the draft budget rebalancing, with extremely rational foundations. That was the speech of the finance minister that we heard here, and he pointed to certain things that are necessary and necessary to defend, which is why this rebalancing is actually being brought. We could not carry out the budget the way it was designed, but simply by not implementing the budget the way it was designed we would then do exactly what Mr. Minister was talking about, we would deny those who in this part of the implementation of the budget necessary, which is social funds, these are pensions, and these are our obligations to the old foreign savings. Everything else we talked about is about preserving those categories, those economic macroeconomic categories, which rest on how the budget was projected. What were the objectives of the budget? We have spoken and heard today that the objectives of the budget were, above all, an impact on indirect economic growth, maintaining macroeconomic policy, stability and ultimately, on the regular payment of pensions and other social contributions. Beyond these budget objectives, we did not set other objectives, and the budgetary development goal was linked to the revenue side, and this rebalancing would not have been made if the revenues had been projected could have been realised. When we speak in order to defend budget rebalances, we should always talk about the need to bring about budget rebalances so that certain policy objectives of this country can be achieved. What's a lack of budget rebalancing? It is now leading to political instability, to crisis and automatically to the unrealisation of the basic macroeconomic objectives set here. It is the legitimate political right of the opposition in every parliament and it is the right place for the government to attack. So that's very clear, and from that point of view we have two ways of speaking, we have a political speech and we have a speech from a rational point of view. We will always hear, when we defend the budget, rational explanations, and, when we hear those who attack the budget, we will hear all those explanations that are basically political. But if we go back to those political explanations, so we can figure out the following -- it's not good and it's not grateful that someone who's been criminally leading this country's policy for the past three years, it's not good for him, first of all, to make any comparisons with this government. Because if we're talking about the environment in which we now work and live, as citizens of this country, we still live in the environment of so-called. relative political stability, and the previous period has been marked by political instability, and for this political instability was not the opposition's fault in the country, but was the authority's fault and it was the government of the Republic of Serbia's fault, the former one. And this same government of the Republic of Serbia was responsible for what it left to this government and for this kind of economic instability and external trade deficit, which was left to this government. If we're talking about the roots of an external trade deficit, it's enough to just remember "sugar affair." Well, that's why we were suspended. She's the reason we came under sanctions. Could that have affected the foreign trade deficit? Well, of course it is. So when we speak politically and when we make that kind of comparison, we can always conclude something like that. What were we talking about here? We talked about the need to preserve certain macroeconomic elements, which apparently proved successful over the course of these years, and I'm going to say very briefly who they are. It's, first of all, reduced public debt by 2.5 times. It's a reduced deficit, which currently stands at 2.3%. We know that the criteria of the European Union are put at 3%, therefore we are below that. The absolute increase in social gross product should be indicated. And it's expected to be between 7% and 9%. I hope it'll be 9%. To the perseverance of the budget objectives, which I was just talking about, up to the rise of foreign reserves. And they need to be talked about -- the increase in foreign exchange reserves by about 350 million in the last quarter. Of course, for the sustainability of paying off that part of the public debt that is indicated here, especially the sustainability of paying off old foreign savings, pensions and social benefits. So, this is what is necessary to do in order to ultimately, according to the memorandum, design a good budget for next year, and if some mistakes have been made, if some low calculation has been made in the projecting of expenditure, the expenditure sides compared to what we have badly searched for on the revenue side, first of all this refers to privatisation, which is what the minister was saying, so this can help us in a more peaceful way to make a budget for the next financial year, and that these few months of this financial year we simply end up within these indicators. So that's a rational argument. If we speak from the point of view of the raids, this budget needs to be adopted and there is no other reason, but politically, that this budget rebalance is not voted on. That is why I call on all MPs of the National Assembly to vote in favour of this budget rebalance on behalf of the protection of these categories I have spoken of and on behalf of the protection of political stability in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6971	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Please, the word has the head of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I belong to a group of MPs who, before the end of their presentation, directly called some mini-cosovic curse in terms of -- who doesn't vote for the budget will be responsible for many of the problems that will affect the poorest people in Serbia, so I would like to remind you that you talk about radicals as a populist party and that you should be devoid of such expressions. We, unfortunately, in March, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the Budget Act, was adopted, were not in the National Assembly Hall, because the National Assembly refused, most of its votes, to open a debate on terrorist acts in Kosovo and Metohija, which Albanian terrorists were conducting towards Serbs, in a difficult tragedy, of which we will no longer be able to recover. At that time, the Assembly was more important to the budget. It didn't matter to us. You've adopted the budget, with opposition to part of the opposition. Of course, the government never listens to the opposition when it gives her objections to the laws, especially when it gives her objections to the budget, and that's where I agree. If you have imagined your policy and you want to implement it, it means nothing to you that you are adapting to the demands of the opposition. You want to implement the policy until the end, but now that you've implemented it and we've entered October, and when we're due at the end of October, we need to see whether your policy was good or not. She wasn't good. If it were good, you wouldn't put this item on the agenda, we wouldn't be discussing today, let's call it, budget rebalancing, although he doesn't deserve to be called that. Indeed, there has been imbalances and there is a need to balance the budget, but this should rather be called some other name, although under the general name -- budget rebalances line up any changes to the budget. But if the minister is right and says - that we are adopting this law because there is a reduction in commitments from the budget, that would never be the reason for a session of the National Assembly, if the government reduces budget commitments by austerity measures. No, I don't. This session was called in because for some users a greater budget exemption is foreseen than is provided for in the law. That's the only reason. You know the items for which this session is held today. Of course, it's nice to hide it under a story about an increase in pensions, but I don't know what disabled pensioners think about it in Vojvodina, who's turned to the Fund to pay back two pensions. Or perhaps you don't know, ministers, that disabled pensioners in Vojvodina are panicking because they all got a notice from the Republic Fund that they should return two pensions. And they're still calling themselves in 1992. Now, let me say what we think about this budget right now. This is the debtor's budget. This is how debtors adopt the budget. But this is the budget of a debtor who cares about trustees, who doesn't care about his own interests and who doesn't have his own demands. Yes, that's right, at the end of October the first tranche of the great, advertised on all bells, wrote off the debt. But, Minister, that debt write-off led right to payment. You immediately agreed when the interest payment started, the tranche, and by which interest, you never told us. So we actually went into debt repayment, not debt write-off. We're in debt payoffs. We have a lot of money, our economy is doing a great job, and it just took you three years to negotiate when we're going to go into debt payout, when we're going to enter into fulfillment of all our obligations. A few months ago, I was talking here, and of course you -- yesterday's Europeans -- very negatively, about how countries enter the European Union, and I said -- only who doesn't meet the requirements of the IMF, the EU, the World Bank, can count on entering the European Union. Here, yesterday in an interview in some newspapers, the Rector of the University of Ljubljana used those exact words, and he said - we in Slovenia did not perform the orders that we were given and one day we stood before them and said: and now please welcome us, we are now better than many of your members. This is the budget of those who carry out their duties. I would understand that, but where are the obligations of others to us? Why they never asked for a debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about whether anyone has an obligation to us in this white world. I know it would have been difficult in 2000, and if it hadn't won the DOS, and if we had won, in a broken country, to make a budget and go into some kind of production, into investment. But I'm convinced it wouldn't be easy. It wouldn't have been easy, because we would have pointed out our rights, not just our own obligations. This year, after seven months of your reign, let's see what you want, who you want to damage, who you want to give to. You don't even ask questions to those who gave you this budget deficit when it was adopted. Why are they now insisting on reducing the budget deficit, but not reducing their commitments to them? You've even increased the debt to the principal loans, the donations don't have any dinars. This is a government that now that it's charging the budget solely on loans. Now you're including the so-called so-called. Domestic banks, they're foreign banks. You don't have a domestic bank to lend loans to, and with which it will be possible to owe the budget, it's just a party bank, a fictitious domestic bank, and you ministers know it very well. You're cutting military spending, you're justifying that the military has so far not spent the funds it was intended to use. You've ruined the Yugoslav Army. It started with Minister Boris Tadic, completed by Minister Davinic and you all participate, and you who whistle, and you who know what's going on there, and you who don't know. We don't have an army anymore. Our children in barracks are chasing a grain of beans in a plate and you know it well. At the time when I served the army, we were afraid of what the duty officer would be on that day, when the exit to the city, because half of us did not let us into the city, looking for a button that wasn't well sewn up, and now you give your children – Friday, Saturday, Sunday home, necessarily home, because they have nothing to eat in the barracks of the Yugoslav Army. You've destroyed a defense weapon and the question is, what's that? Why don't you make a decision that there's no army anymore? You've introduced a civilian military service, in a place of residence, in a school, in a hospital, is no longer a soldier at all, what a civilian service of the military. Why didn't you at least bring him into the barracks without a rifle to serve a military term? He doesn't want a gun. He doesn't have to, but he's got something to do. Who's been harassing the Department of Defense? The NGO, the Atlantic Alliance, some unknown people are harassing the Yugoslav Army and you know it well. I guess G17 plus knows that. Who are you, across from the Star Stadium, where they report to our generals? From Boris Tadic, generals began reporting to kids from 22, 23, 24 years old in jeans. Goran Vesic began the material-financed collapse of the Yugoslav Army, because he decided the bottom to pay the bill and not to pay. Now it's easy to say – for an army of six billion less. For the army with which you want to enter the NATO Pact, you have six billion more each year to secure. It's like with Serbia. We want to join the European Union, and we're getting poorer. The minister says the government was surprised by the expenditures for the unemployed. There are increased expenditures for the unemployed. You know why? There's been an increase in the number of unemployed. The figure is not increased by every unemployed person, but is increasing, there is no investment, there is no production, there is nothing in Serbia. What are you charging your budget with? Taxes? Here, you increase the income from taxes and from excise duties. Nine billion cuts in income from non-tax revenues. Taxes and excise duties increase, but therefore decreases from customs duties. Isn't that indicative of you, Mr. Minister? You have 900 million, almost a billion less income for customs than you planned, and the import is terrible. Is it a good measure to limit the age of a used car? You have made the citizens of Serbia bitter. I'm from Kragujevac, and I'd like it to work, but you closed it down first, and now you're saying this is a measure for car production in Kragujevac. Who are you talking to? Or you say, for component manufacturers to produce, a car has to be imported up to three years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6973	Excuse me, are you using for the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6974	Yeah. Someone from your ministry has even made a statement, and you're supposed to be chasing him at the same time, and he says, "He who doesn't have a decent man's car doesn't deserve to have a car." So now there are people who are worthy of being people and people who aren't worthy. Those who have no money to buy a car up to three years old are not worthy of being human and this is told by a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government coming to defend its budget, to vote for its budget. The government that says -- the one who doesn't vote for the budget, he wants evil for our parents and children. Whoever wants to vote for this government wants evil both for our parents and for our children, and you know it very well. What about agriculture? You've been over it. Very quickly and very easily you've gone over agricultural expenses. This is where you found the reserves. Where exactly do you find reserves at the farm? She's just made us happy for years, they've just produced something, and you right now, what do you say, as always, whoever she's got, take it off that she doesn't have as much as she does. What does that mean, no more regression? What does it mean in the wind that there's no more protection? How could this budget go in or open the budget law? Let's see how far that's gone: a billion and 300 million. Who are you going to explain that to? To protect 900 million, to the Ministry of Agriculture a billion and 300 million. Who can you explain that to? The peasants? If they hadn't become rich in these years, they wouldn't have started making money on milk, on meat, on wheat? What can a peasant earn today, if there is no subsidy, if there is no grant, if there is no agrarian budget? So, how do you find two billion reserves right there? I don't know who could normally vote for this budget of yours. You even have for buying out the wheat, just to find that too. And that's where you predicted a smaller sentence. A small sum of 780 million for the ransom of wheat. All right, Minister, let's see if we speak Serbian both. In Article 16(3), the amount of "two billion" is replaced by "billion and 220". What's bigger now? What was it or what was going to be? You'll explain that later. Privatization revenues, indeed, this government has made a terrible stalemate in privatisation. She also told him in public a story about thefts under privatisation. It is true, out of 1,300, 1,400 privatisations, I suppose that in more than a thousand broken laws or not a respected contract, but that's why privatisation doesn't stop, which is why a contract can be annulled, so a fraud can be hired to get to the factory, but privatisation can't be stopped. You haven't passed a law on stopping privatisation. You did not accept that an SRS proposal on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act was entered into the agenda sometime in March, April, following an urgent procedure. No, you just said-- there's nothing to do anymore. You're counting on huge revenues, more than ten billion in this year's budget, on privatisation revenues, and now there's no income. Privatisation must be completed, but you must examine all the privatisations so far. I used to use the word revision, so you used it against the radicals and said -- foreign investors won't come, you're reviewing the legislation. No, let's say the checks, to conduct an inspection of all the privatisations done so far. And the privatisation that Minister Bubalo participated in, and those subsidies that went to the factory he later sold. Let's see everything, to remove any doubt, to know if the factory was worth one euro, if it went to the euro, if it's now producing, and if it doesn't produce, something's wrong. You need to look at every privatisation. Don't wait for us to come. We're gonna do it, it's gotta be done, because it's not a foreign investor, the one who came, so he made a deal outside the law. It's not the foreign investor who made the deal by law, and then didn't execute it. It's a fraud, and whether it's from America or from Seattle, or from Serbia, it doesn't matter to me. At the very end, several times, Minister, you used the word "air conditioning," and you say, "We have passed thirty laws that have created a favourable climate for this, for that. These are not climate laws and are not this congregation of meteorological congregations. What kind of climate, Mr. Minister? What is the climate in Serbia, do you even know, among businessmen, among taxpayers, merchants, unemployed, farmers at the market? Do you even know what kind of climate is created in Serbia, if we are already talking about climate change since 2000? I confess that you came to power in 2000 with the number of votes. You had an open field, you had benefits the SRS would never have. No one touches you, no matter what you do. We got the resolution yesterday from Mrs. Komic, I just don't know if it's the final text of the resolution, which was adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the state of democracy in Serbia-Montenegro. I don't know if you've read that resolution. There the authorities attack in every paragraph, but it is the last sentence: they still need to be helped to rule, not to win the radicals. There, you have the world's fondness to do whatever you want. Then tell us why exactly in the monetary sphere, why don't you have their support in the economic sphere? That's where your blackmails are the biggest. They forgive you if you don't hand over the Hague indictee, they won't forgive you if you don't pay off the loan at the end of October, they won't forgive your budget deficit. Tell us honestly, did they tell you to cut military spending? Last one: oil. The whole world changes fuel prices every 15 days. What are you doing? What is it, who are you saving with these prices? Whose substance is being spent because we are currently driving cars or using oil and oil derivatives at prices of three months ago? Who's gonna pay in the end? I repeat, if you want to stop inflation for the price of fuel, make a mess at the pumps. No fuel, no inflation. If there's fuel, I can't figure out that all developed countries are following the price of fuel, and $100 will soon be a barrel of oil, the Americans say. Where did Serbia get those reserves so they wouldn't increase the price of oil derivatives? Is that perhaps the way this imports of Syrian oil? Don't, when I beg you, don't let the thieves buy something that's seemingly cheap on the market. When it reaches a direct consumer, it will be peppered expensive, and it will carry two or three million dollars in its pocket, satisfied to rub its hands. In this country, everything doesn't work exactly as you promised. In this country, only thieves changed suits, and some don't change suits. That lobby, the rich lobby, sort of, runs all DOS parties. Whoever gets rid of him before he gets the voter's votes. You know that. That is why we will not vote in favour of this draft budget law. We risk you calling us murderers, those who don't care about anything in this Serbia, just worry about coming to power. We're taking that risk in the long run. I call on the other MPs to take their views on the government or their views on what voters think through the vote on this budget. The government, in elections for the president of the Republic and in local self-government elections, is fighting for censorship by 12 to 14%. It is the government's foothold in Serbia's electoral body. You know what, I don't want to be offered by such large system laws by those who don't have 15% of the electoral body in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6975	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Here you are, authorized representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here are a few views on behalf of our parliamentary group. You'll see that, basically, this isn't about a capital document, because we're not talking about the budget today. We are talking about balancing some of the budgetary positions of the existing budget. A much more important debate will be, and it will certainly be the basis for today's and the one to be led in the coming days, which will be guided by the 2005 budget. The basic question is whether each of us, if he were a minister or a government, would be going to propose such a document in the National Assembly or not. If things are viewed domestically, then it is logical that when changes in the structure of income and expenditure are made in the budget, we go to the National Assembly and ask for appropriate changes and additions to that law. I guess there's no slow going on here. I couldn't agree with the conclusion that it's up to this so-called. the rebalancing only came because some expenditures were reduced. The rebalancing has occurred because some expenditures have been reduced, but some revenues have been increased, and also because some expenditures, at least in this proposal, have been increased as well. We have, if I have well summed up, a total budget reduction of around 24 billion dinars, while at the same time we have an increase in some other positions in the budget by around 12 billion. Now, when the accountants think about it and when you beat those two things up, then you basically have a budget expenditure reduction of 12 billion, which allows us to come up with a budget deficit, instead of the current 45 billion dinars, to be projected 32.7 billion dinars for 2004. Only two and a half months left until 2004. If the exact figure that the budget deficit, at the end of the ninth month of this year, was around 19 billion dinars, then it is a good sign that the budget deficit will remain within these projected frameworks. You know that the SPS never agrees that there is any budget deficit, no matter how that budget deficit is financed. This economic reality, which has been present for the past three years, and even in this year 2004, has somehow been accepted as such by the majority in this congregation. I am somewhat surprised by those who are now criticising the government that is proposing to reduce the budget deficit, and it was they who were the biggest opponents of such a budget deficit that was projected in the 2004 budget, which we discussed in March. I think it's one inconsistencies, not only economic, but also political, because you can't go against something afterwards. How do you cover this budget deficit? The draft budget planned to cover revenues based on privatisation with 16.4 billion dinars. Today we have a proposal to cover the budget deficit with the privatisation revenues of 5.5 billion dinars. As for our Socialists, it shouldn't take a single dinar of the budget deficit to cover the funds achieved on the basis of the sale of the privatisation company. These are the conceptual differences that we had and the government that ruled until March of this year, and if you will, this one. I'm undermining, not a single penny. This would mean that privatisation takes place in a way that those who become owners of these companies invest funds in these companies, which is the concept of capitalisation that the previous government would not accept. All experience from the Socialist rule over the past 10 years is that these companies, which have been privatised in this way, are the most attractive and successful, according to laws that ruled during the SPS government. Of course it's not good when we realize that there's been a disturbance in privatisation, but I see the reasons for the delay in privatisation, first of all, in three things, in three facts. The government sold the best companies, leaving this government the worst. That's true. The government has had a privatisation that is controversial, and today you are witnesses, fellow MPs, are the sessions of the Privatisation Committee most visited. They discuss the government's previous privatisations. I don't want to go into how many violations of the privatisation legislation, whether it was crime or not, but it's obvious that the climate was created that those privatisations were concluded on 31 December 2003 and how controversial they were. The third reason for the delay in privatisation, according to us socialists, lies within the legal framework for privatisation, because we have a law that simply does not stimulate privatisation. I'll tell you why. A single company contract is concluded only between two persons. On the one hand is the Privatisation Agency, which acts as the owner of a privatisation company and on the other side of the customer. There is no participation of workers, there is no participation of unions, there is no participation of management that is now at the head of these companies to be privatised. How do you expect someone who has absolutely nothing to ask about privatisation to be motivated to implement this privatisation in a way that will provide good revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget? This is simply impossible to expect from those who are in such a situation, because they are simply not motivated. They are not motivated by the provisions of the Privatisation Act, which says that 70% of capital is necessarily sold, and only about 30% can theoretically become owned by workers who have worked or worked in these companies. So, up to 30% maximum, and as a rule, as previously calculated, workers can't become shareholders or those 30% capital. Then you think privatisation can take place in a way that fills the budget and the fundamental strategic difference that has always distinguished us from other political parties in this assembly was that you can't get the funds from privatisation into the budget, and then spend it on who's willing to do a variety of budget positions and items. I have a problem, and I believe you as MPs. We keep getting some kind of dictatorship from the so-called. international communities, and most often those who stick to the so-called financial spheres and most of the IMF, as they will say from America. I don't have any dilemmas here, that sometimes we or most often have to accept such dictatorships, but didn't the IMF know in March this year that there was a project budget deficit of 45 billion dinars, and isn't it true that the IMF accepted such a budget deficit when we in the Assembly voted in the 2004 budget? And that's right for those of you who talk about it -- can we or do we always have to perform some kind of warrants, or we'll have a contradiction now, and I'll tell you which one. Searching for our business banks and business entities from America was captured 14 years ago and that was about 300 million dollars. That's 18 billion dinars. The government would not have any problem with reducing the budget deficit if in the past three years, and in this 2004, something more serious was made on the plan to charge the 300m dollars back to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6977	Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6978	Yeah, I'll use it. Eighteen billion dinars is big money for Serbia, and it would be better for Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic, who often goes to America to discuss the subject in America, rather than on the topic – to go to the post-poto elections, etc. It would be better for the president of our republic, Boris Tadic, who is also going to America several times to open the issue with Mr Bush and other people from the United States, not to talk about how the US Congress will also deny the promised aid of about $70m or $80m unless we co-operate with The Hague tribunal unless we catch Karadzic and Mladic. One day they can make a request to catch Bin Laden. There would be a responsible policy, both foreign and state policy. Why should we forgive America for our money, and look forward to the promised aid of $70 million or $80 million? It's not just a political issue, it's an economic and financial issue, and we have to open it up sometime, no matter who, because the London Club didn't want to forgive us for everything. He forgave two-thirds of what he may not have had in that amount of reckoning, because during the sanctions, as you know, he was calculating interest on the level of our debt, and then there was some amount, and then the people of the government and the finance ministry managed to regulate that debt, 62% to write off, 38% to be owed this year, and one war that dinarly means 2.4 billion dinars and must be found in these budget expenditures. I can only admit that as an objective factor for changing the budget or for the purpose of entering this document into a congregation debate. Anything else the government could have done in some way and otherwise, but then some people would have appeared who would have said – the government was now not working transparently but, within certain budgetary positions, being transferred there or here, etc. It is also said what other reasons have led to a relative increase in budget revenues in certain positions. I have to admit, I'm a little worried about some data here, and I'll tell you who's most concerned with me. It's not worrying if we're growing traffic, and based on the growth in traffic in trade, we have increased revenue in the budget based on sales tax by about 6-7%. If you look at the structure of that traffic that is happening in trade, then that is the problem, because the increase in traffic has been reflected precisely on the basis of increased imports of goods of broad consumption, and thus below the increased external trade deficit. So the problem is in the structure of that traffic. The government left about $12 billion to this government in the foreign trade deficit, and such a trend was continued in 2004 and I simply do not know what would be an administrative measure that would prevent the further growth of the foreign trade deficit, unless one of the segments written in this document was realized, to make appropriate investments in an export-oriented economy and thus to secure a larger foreign exchange inflow, i.e. to reduce the external trade deficit. No matter how much you resist that tendency, we'll get into a debt crisis very quickly, she's getting closer. Recently, the governor of the National Bank, Mr. Jelasic, said there was a debt crisis on our hands. It's kind of silently denied from the government, but if the external trade deficit can essentially be treated as a debt in some situations, then we have no choice but to do everything to increase export-oriented economic activity, which will provide some kind of balance in the external trade balance with the world. Without that, we have no chance of serving existing debts and of serving future debts that we will have on the basis of, hopefully, favourable loans to invest in direct investments to start production in our Republic. When, based on such increased imports, you have a growth in traffic, it is a data that concerns you. If there was a reduction in imports of goods of general consumption, growth in production, and therefore domestic turnover, then that fact would be encouraging, especially because I look at it relatively, because it is affected by other factors, such as the rise in prices on small oil derivatives, and these oil shocks that are happening on the oil market that we certainly cannot affect. Look, say, customs and duties. Customs and duties are one of the highest state revenues. We have a fact that this year they will be smaller by 2.7% or 800 million dinars. There are two reasons. One minister mentioned - a bad agreement in August last year that the previous government made with the international community, which concerns liberalisation, i.e. reduction of customs rates and so on. Harmonizations with Montenegro. We had a three-time reduction in customs rates in a year, so now our customs rate is about 7 to 7.5%, and it was 15%. We thus put our Serbian economy on the wind, exposed it to unprecedented competition at once and without a preparation period, thus removing the prices of import products and suffocating what was doing here. That's the problem. That's why I'm talking about, when it comes to the 2005 budget, a memorandum on economic policy that will reflect what the government is going to do in 2005, we have to exhaust ourselves on this subject and see if there's any way to start what can be exported, whether there's any way to start domestic production. When socialists look at this proposal for budget rebalancing, then in the nature of things, given our programming position, we first look at what's called the social part of the budget, so we ask, are the payments to PIO reduced? When we get an answer and we make sure the document doesn't, then we say it's good. When we see if there's a reduction in fees for the National Employment Service, we see -- they're not, but they're even increased, as well as the pension fund. When we look at the health fund -- whether the rebalances are reduced -- have not, on the contrary, been increased. This is the reason for the socialists who have it in the programme, firstly, to say that these changes can pass from the point of view of budgetary constraints and implementation of commitments. We must not forget that even after these changes, it will remain a debt to the farmers of 20.5 full pensions. If these changes don't happen, they'll be owed 26. That even during these changes, the Health Fund remains in debt with a lack of income compared to expenditures of around 4 billion 200 million, and that on 31 August this year there are total unsettled commitments of around 6 billion 200 million dinars. We have the fact that the level of health care over the last four years has been significantly reduced, because now citizens are forced to pay a lot of things because the beauty of prescription drugs has been reduced from 300 to 100, because of that 100 you can find in pharmacies only 30, but that is, among other things, because the factories of our domestic medicines are owed from a health fund of about 700, 800, maybe even 900 million dinars at this point. It's a story from the point of view of the Socialists and those social components in this budget rebalance. Since you're going to listen to me, I'm going to finish the story now, because I've run out of 20 minutes. I will continue in that part of the debate concerning the time that belongs to the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6979	Anyone else want a word? Please, the representative of the SPO-New Serbia group, MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6980	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget rebalance today in front of the Serbian Parliament is a serious issue, there is no more important and serious issue in the economy. But the first conclusion after all the speeches today in the Assembly is that we did not get rid of politics when it comes to economics. We are very concerned with politics and a little economy, and we need to look at what our country is in the economic situation, what the consequences of the past are, and what are the consequences of this budget rebalance, which is presented today by the minister in the Serbian Parliament, not by the vote, and especially by those who voted for the budget, and especially by us who are the authorities in this country. In his presentation, the minister, the exposé, in an extremely high-quality way, met the MPs with all the problems, with everything the finance ministry has encountered over the past six months. We won the government in March of the month, in just two weeks' time the budget was formed, as it could with the positions we took at that moment. Budget, as you all know, has an income and expenditure side. Incomes often cannot be planned, and expenditures are always certain and we always know that expenditure may be higher. In our case, in these six months, the revenues have not been realised in the amount planned by the budget, because the minister said, and you all know well, that the missing revenues from the privatisation were not as planned for that period, which does not mean that by the end of the year we will not replace that income, but such income and expenditure ratios in the period of 6 months are directly reflected in the budget. You saw for yourself that tax revenues were significant, and that means that our entrepreneurs, our businessmen, are ready to work and when they work, they're ready to pay their taxes. What hasn't shown its effect at this point, these are the laws we've passed, about thirty laws, because not everyone has even entered into force. As of January 1st, we expect that the tax code will replace the tax on financial transactions, apply the value added tax and that, hopefully, in the next year, we will have a more stable economic situation, and talk about the revenue side of the budget with much more optimism, that Serbia will have more real revenues and revenues to be achieved. A special accent today, in front of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, would focus precisely on what led to the work of budget rebalances, on those four basic items that emerged as a serious reason for the budget to have a rebalance. There has been an objective increase in expenditure in the work - transfer and organisation of PIO, transfer and organisation of agricultural insurance and organisations of the unemployed. The second item that we couldn't run and which appeared is obligations to the London Club, and this same assembly, so we're the ones who voted the London Club and closed the deal. It's our responsibility, and the obligations expire at the end of October. The third item that caused this situation is old foreign currency savings and, as a fourth, salaries of education and culture. If we start to analyze each of these four items in particular, you will objectively see that neither the Government, nor the finance minister, nor the parliamentary majority in this assembly have affected these events and that we simply, by our own knowledge, nor by our ability to avoid these four categories of expenditures that have occurred. Why do I say that? You all know that in the past period, PIO funds, health insurance, unemployment, etc. were empty. These were funds that were unintendedly used, these were funds that the previous governments had in one longer period, unlike all the funds in the world that are sacred, which are not touched, used for their current business, for the immediate calming of some economic situation in the country, and the next government that was coming kept those funds empty. And now from the current business, we have to finance from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is also natural, which is the responsibility of one government, and farmers, and the unemployed it has, and there are a lot of people who survive from that compensation and PIO. The inflow of funds from agriculture is very low, and farmers' pensions are small, so the state reacts in this way, precisely from that fund, and pays out pensions. It is an economic circumstance that neither this government nor this assembly, it is a state that has been found and that will put a long pressure on every government, however it was in the Republic of Serbia, whether it was the government of Mr Dinkic or one of the next ministers in the elections. The second item is the payment of the London debt, it's inevitable. I sincerely hope that no one can say that we shouldn't pay the debt, especially if we know that this payment provides funding for the next period. And you'll agree with me, we're a country where and how they need loans, we're in such an economic situation that we need as much credit as we can and for as long a period of payment as possible, so that at some point we can start the economy and then we can finance from our resources. The third item is old foreign currency savings. What is it, gentlemen MPs, has this government taken away the old foreign currency savings, has this government and this finance ministry taken away citizens' old foreign currency savings? Of course not, but this government, as a government holding morals and its words, has decided to pay back the money our citizens have earned in a very good way during a certain period, as budget funds allow, to pay back to people's foreign currency savings, to make it up to them. I think we're one of the few countries where some people who left money in old-day banks took away their own plan. So it's inevitability. The old foreign savings must be returned to all those who have left it in banks and to all those who have been deceived in this way. The fourth category is the salaries of education and culture. Education and culture are covered by this rebalancing. I'm quite sure there's a lot more work to do, a lot more in Serbia that receive small salaries, but if it starts with education and culture, I'm quite certain that health and all other categories will be reached. We at SPO-NS had a little dilemma when it comes to economic subsidies. However, the minister explained this today, because these subsidies could not be suspended, and precisely because of people in extremely difficult situations, we are satisfied with the finance minister's response. I think voting on the budget is a matter of morals for the coalition that forms power. If, gentlemen, we voted in favour of the budget, if we were behind the budget in March, both politically and morally, and economically, we have to stand behind budget rebalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6981	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, DSS, DS, G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to Parliamentarian Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6982	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman, here, before the break, I will try to be brief and honor the appointed time. It's very easy to attack this unpopular measure that's necessary, and that's budget rebalance. I will try to justify it by relying on rational reasons, not going into politics. I was not a member of the previous government, I was not a minister in the past government, and I cannot speak from those positions about the 2004 budget rebalancing, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Resort Ministry of Finance. I'll repeat the numbers, which I hope you've all looked at and read. The deficit has been reduced from the planned 45.3 billion dinars to 32.7 billion. The planned budget revenues we adopted in March remain the same, i.e. 329.3 billion dinars, but expenditures decrease to 362 billion, i.e. by 12.6 billion dinars. This deficit reduction in percentages is 2.3% of gross social product. I would like to remind you that last year the budget deficit was 4% of gross social product, and this year it was achieved by reducing the allocation from Serbia's budget to finance the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and six billion dinars. This refers to a 5.6 billion dinar reduction for the Serbia-Montenegro Army, but the minister has already explained that there will certainly not be a reduction in the country's security capacity. It's certain the army won't starve, etc. We've heard these parolees several times, especially from former ministers in public information. The issue is that the Serbia-Montenegro Army has managed to make a lot of savings and that there is room to pay employees in Serbia-Montenegro's military this year to increase 8.5%. On the other hand, increases in individual donations have been made, and above all, additional 3.1 billion dinars will be paid to the PIO Fund for pensions, 3.3 billion dinars for agricultural pensions, and two billion dinars for unemployment benefits. Otherwise, the PIO deficit accounts for about 6% of the social gross product, and 71 billion dinars for these purposes, and it is absolutely unsustainable. What is necessary and what is ahead of us is a serious reform of the pension system, but it certainly does not question the regular payment of pensions at the moment, and for which the funds are already provided in the budget and in this budget rebalancing. The foreign debt payment item is also increasing, which is paid to the London Club of Trustees, which amounts to 2.4 billion dinars and could not be foreseen when we adopted the budget in March of this year, because the write-off arrangement is 62% of the debt concluded in July. Otherwise, if it wasn't for that payment, the war that was coming would be a real deficit of 30 billion dinars this year. What resources will be used to cover the budget deficit? On the domestic market, 18.3 billion were secured. 10 billion. Since the privatisation of the previous year, then there is the issue of securities of value, i.e. debt on the capital market and the acquisition of credit with business banks, there are foreign donations and loans of 8.9 billion. and the planned privatisation revenues of 5.5 billion, which will be transferred to the 2005 budget in part, according to the same system as last year's budget. What's certain is that the deficit has to be financed from real resources. The question is, why the budget rebalance and why is it down? Like I said, it's an unpopular measure, but it's necessary to maintain price stability. Without stable prices, not only are citizens' standards at risk, but there are no grounds for maintaining economic growth. This year, economic growth will be between 7% and 9%, the largest in the last twenty years. Industrial production growth will also be between 7% and 9%, and agricultural growth about 12%. What caused this many deficits, and why did he have to shrink? It's, first of all, a high level of public spending. Although a 1.3% decline in real wages was recorded in August this year compared to July, the existing level of consumption, or fiscal burden of the economy, remains very high and poses a potential risk of maintaining macroeconomic stability. But I'll just remind you that since 2000, earnings have increased by 114.5%, and productivity has only increased by 16%. So this government cannot, which has only been there for six months, be accused of enormously increasing profits in the real sector. So there had to be a radical reduction in public spending. There is simply no money in the government's register to raise wages in the real sector, and they will not be able to increase above the planned level of 8.5% this year. The increase in earnings will only be discussed if the gross social product is increased. And by the way, this year he'll be between 7% and 9%. Secondly, the deficit reduction is not just an IMF request. It's in our interest, too. It's imperative, if you want to continue reforms, that the government doesn't have all the resources to cover the deficits that the previous government could use. Here, first of all, I mean what Mr. Minister said that this year there was not a single dollar of credit from the business banks; this government was not in charge of the NBS. In the first half, in the first six months, no money from privatisation or foreign loans was added to the government's register. Only in the second half of the year, when we here in the National Assembly voted on a set of economic laws, came $40 million in budget assistance from the World Bank. The aim of the adoption of these laws was to reduce the share of the grey economy in the gross domestic product, through the introduction of an additional value tax, to make the debt and the uncertain bankruptcy process more efficient and faster, to regulate the area of gambling, simply a system of contributions for mandatory social security. The effect of these legal solutions should be achieved by reducing the profit tax rate from 14% to 10%. The regulation of the gambling area should result in the transfer from gray to legal flows of about 100m euros annually. There is then the licensing and improvement of the bankruptcy process, the elimination of one complex system of eight minimum bases based on the degree of expertise and the improvement of the material position of the most endangered layers of the population by equating social protection levels for all users. On the other hand, it's not just salaries in the real sector that cause deficits. A serious reduction in public expenditure will be impossible without restructuring large public enterprises and reducing the subsidies the state gives to losers. That's the problem the previous government had. There's this one, too, and there'll probably be another one. Because restructuring necessarily leads to redundancies of workers, whether we want to admit it or not. In the case of the EPS and the NIS, we can see that the previous government has made certain plans for their restructuring, but that it has not done any strategy for the development of the energy sector and that the strategy is now under way, and that the Ministry should deliver us to see which direction the energy sector is going to develop, and that it will then depend on the restructuring of EPS and NIS as large state-owned enterprises. These measures also reduce the external trade deficit. But, of course, it's not even this government's invention. It's a structural problem. It turns out that Serbia does not have enough competitive products to export. On the other hand, domestic conjuncture always stimulates import growth. New investments and changes in the structure of production are needed. But it can't even be achieved through devaluation. Devaluation would only stimulate inflation and do nothing positive. In this respect, the same factors affect both inflation and the growth of the external trade deficit. We cannot act on foreign prices, and inflationary expectations are affected by wage policy, fiscal and monetary policy, which is what this government does. What we need today is to maintain price stability, with bearable inflation, which is unfortunately bigger this year than originally planned; then new investments in export-oriented activity. So we can't influence the policy of course and remove the structural causes of the external trade deficit, but we can reduce it by certain measures of savings and spending cuts. In this sense, the proposed budget rebalance for 2004 follows this direction of action that I have talked about so far, and therefore the G17 parliamentary group will vote for the adoption of rebalancing. I hope that other parliamentary groups will join us in this, not only from the ruling coalition but also those who call themselves a constructive opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6983	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Jovan Todorovic, but since we are close to the break, I will give a notice before I set a break. The session of the Legislative Committee is at 15.00 hours on the ground floor. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6984	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue to work on this agenda. Please, before the sequel begins, we'll determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the MPs' cards into the units of the electronic system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a sufficient number of MPs for the quorum. The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, and let the MP Slavoljub Matic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6985	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, continue this principle debate several issues which are more or less controversial for the SPS parliamentary group and which may require some clarifications or clarifications. The first issue is the financing of functions and institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. If I have collected well, the total resources for the state community will be reduced by about six billion dinars in this budget rebalance. However, total reductions are in individual positions of about seven billion, and there have been some increases, so when all of this is added together, then we have about six billion smaller financial allocations from the republican budget for the financing of the community of the state or state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which is approximately 11.2% compared to the total planned funds for the community. When he carefully read the Bill amending the Budget Law, he saw that these reductions were mainly related to two things. One is, at least, said in the document, the temporary disposal of investment in investment funds, and above all capital investments, in the purchase of machinery and equipment. On that basis, the reduction to three billion and 300 million dinars is. The second refers to a reduction in the use of services and goods of four billion dinars. It is now important to ask the question, whether there is room for claims made in the document that all functions of the Serbia-Montenegro state union will be covered in these two and a half months, and how much is left by the end of the year. Will all institutions be able to carry out their duties and duties? That's the question of the army. This is a serious issue, not just from the point of view of political options, which are different both in this Parliament and in society in general, the Partnership for Peace, the entry into NATO Pact, etc. But real life tells us how we should survive these two-and-a-half months in the military and possibly go on some other roads as of January 1st, which will be financed accordingly. It has been said that the salaries of soldiers, or officers, will not be compromised by this reduction, and moreover, an increase of up to 8.5% compared to current incomes will be made possible. Here, Minister Dinkic is obliged to explain, if we are to deny the partial financing of goods, whether this will endanger the basic functions of the supply, in terms of the feeding of soldiers. Those who have soldiers, parents who have children in the military, know that the military is very serious about the problem of eating. I want to put that story in the context of the growth of agricultural production of over 12.5% in this year 2004 and the need for all those who decide to provide at least that minimum for the military, because at least food, now, at this point we have. It is one of the key issues that will break the decision of many MPs, whether to vote or not to vote in favour of this draft budget rebalance. It may seem to some in Serbia, which is rich in food, even produces surpluses of food, unreal, but out of my knowledge, it is a concern of whether it has been resolved to the end. The minister left, but now I ask him, what does a reduction of 93 billion dinars mean, and it was planned 785 in the position – social protection benefits, and it is said in a statement that it refers to a reduction in the compensation for the housing and life of employees in the military and diplomatic and consular offices abroad. Whether this applies to officers who are abroad or abroad only to people working in diplomatic and consular representations and using part of these fees, the total of 93 million will be denied in this two and a half months by the end of the year. Whether this foreign policy function will be able to be performed in a manner similar to the serious state, and if it applies only to soldiers and officers in the country, will it make it impossible for some of the functions of the military, that is, officers and people in charge of the security of the state community. What else could be the problem? I was just talking about things that are important for the Socialists from the point of view of the party's programme, which takes care of the widest circles of the poor and, above all, the poor pensioners, etc. And there's a few data that I can't explain to the end without being consistent with the development function of the budget. Now to satisfy some social functions, you have the fact that the subsidies will be reduced by 1,300,000 dinars. You have a general economic environment and the fact that the economy de facto is not working. Unfortunately, in these billions and 300 million dinars there are also four hundred million related to the Development Fund. And if we start from the basic assumption that the Development Fund should rightly encourage production growth through favourable loans or by investing in some investment in the economy, then the question is, how will the Fund function without these four hundred million. There is also a more beautiful side of the story about this Fund, and it refers to the fact that between the Institute of Health and the Development Fund, so-called. a foreign exchange loan of about seven, which has now increased to about ten billion dinars due to exchange rates, which has financed the contributions of those companies that have failed to connect their employment experience to their employees over the past few years. So the tripartite agreement between the Fund -- the Institute -- was concluded. The company settles its obligations to the Health Fund, and the Health Fund is in charge of the Development Fund at the appropriate amount, and on the other hand, the Development Fund approves the corresponding amount of money to undertakings that connect the work experience, which is good. But, please, when you go further, then you get information that in the Ministry of Economy, despite this reduction of funds, a billion and five hundred million dinars have not been spent. Now the fundamental question is -- how in the absence of funds, which is objective, present, some people run by the Ministry were unable to spend a billion and five hundred million dinars, in a way that would contribute to the growth of the economy. It all looks like the story of the last term, when the Minister of Agriculture failed to spend the funds for agriculture precisely in the same amount of a billion and five hundred million, and then the government decided to finance RTS from those funds instead of agricultural activities. And I also point out the problem of the lack of a minister. Please, at the presidential campaign, we don't have a minister for agriculture. With all due respect to Mr. Bubal, who is the coordinator of two ministries, one for economic relations with abroad and the other for economy, I simply cannot accept it as a fact that it takes us this long to find a man who will work on the business of the Minister of Economy. In the last government, we had a minister of privatisation, but for the economy we didn't. Now we don't have a minister for the economy again, and that's something that can't be good at all. It can't be good at all, and the SPS insists that in the shortest possible time there is a topic -- the election of the Minister for Agriculture, and here we now have the Minister of Education who also resigned, etc. If we move on, then we see that it is controversial, I just don't know how to solve it, the issue of agricultural donations, the reduction of subsidies by a billion and 200 million dinars. In which I remind you that the funds that were planned for certain subsidies, including the regressed fuel for the spring sowing, were spent in the first nine months. And that we will now have a sow that will be organized so that the peasants won't be able to get a liter of regressed oil. And then the question arises -- is that now part of some long-term policy? It can't be. Because everywhere in the world, there are certain subsidies for agriculture, which in no way or under any circumstances should not be reduced, especially to be abolished, as regressed oil for the autumn sowing is lifted. It probably started from the assumption -- well, we're not going to motivate peasants this fall to sow so much wheat, because we have market surpluses, etc. But, please, just a reminder, just a year ago, we had a situation that Serbia had to import wheat because it wasn't domestic enough. Well, we are not going to experience such a situation again unless we have one long-term strategy in the area of agriculture and we are unable to endure the implementation of the agrarian budget and all the incentives involved in the growth of agricultural production, which, as you can see, contribute to this overall rate of GDP growth in the first nine months of this year. Of course this is easier said than done. But so many reserves in this budget were to provide regressed oil for the autumn too. Especially since we have the fact of these oil strikes. Some would say that's exactly why there's no more regression, but I think the opposite. Whatever major disturbances in the world's oil market are, it is so much more necessary to ensure the safe supply of farmers and farmers to this type of energy required for sowing. And I guess there's no dilemma -- is that where the whole future story should go? I noticed two more important things. This budget rebalance contains one part of the text that, like this, resembles the Ministry of Economy and Finance, because it kind of speaks about what we are going to do in the future, as a government and as an economic part of the government, or finance, to do. Two tasks are: one in terms of restructuring the economy in order to prepare for privatisation; another in terms of public enterprise reform. Privatisation plans 15 large companies to go to the tender and 170 to go to the auction. And if that's what I mean, then it's good. And what I mean is, you can't sell companies that have stopped working. They're not attractive. You can't sell companies that don't stand a state in what's called the so-called "state" part. Social program. If at least in this period of two and a half months by the end of the year, and first of all, the need to create a basis for 2005, we're going to help run these companies for a better sale, then I'm up for that variant. But I'm afraid we don't have the strength to do something like that, because the workers in these companies, who aren't privatized, are impatient and because they haven't been receiving any profits for months, or at their houses and waiting, here, to have some buyer show up to buy them. It is the social dimension of the story, which can grow into something else, and that -- something else, today I would not particularly apostrophe, although I point to its danger. And, finally, a reform of public enterprises. It is not said exactly what is meant by the reform of public enterprises, other than a provision that is acceptable to all, that it is going to rationalise costs in these public enterprises. And about that, I'd like to remind you of something else. It also said in the document, and the minister insisted on it -- that public spending on this budget rebalancing will essentially be reduced by 1.1%. That would be true if only a republican budget were observed. If local self-government budgets were to be included in the republican budget, in terms of income and expenditure balances, then you would see that there is probably no point in reducing public spending. On the contrary, because of their lack of rationality at the level of local self-government and because of their work, I am confident that we might be able to get some information that we're about to zero here. So there's no reduction or increase, and with the danger that the data shows us that actually public consumption has increased. This is what should be kept in mind, when all of these local authorities are conceived in municipalities and when the parameters for the financing of municipalities are determined in 2005. Without that, we will not be able to see the overall economic and financial situation of the Republic as such, because only fragmentally looking at the republican budget will always be in the illusion that we have done something in the Republic Government and that something can be corrupted at the level of local self-government. It starts from the level of public spending, to the issue of borrowing local self-government, and also to the question of meeting the basic needs of citizens at the level of these municipal infrastructure and other facilities. We abolished, for example, the fund, or 3.5% of the income allocation for the Residential Solidarity Building Fund, which, as you know, was one of the major revenues of the municipalities. Now, in the absence of such a safe income, municipalities had to resort to certain things concerning the increase of taxis for certain locations, which concern some other charges for city building land, etc. And all of this, in essence, produces a short-term benefit for the local self-government budget, causes long-term damage, as it collects every story about the start-up of the economy, about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, about providing appropriate favourable locations for a job, about some business activity, which would essentially have to raise all of this at the level of local self-government, and, in addition, at the level of the republic. I think that when we discuss the 2005 budget just these few moments, we need to seriously consider, so that we don't get to the point that no one is actually satisfied. Local self-government is not satisfied that they cannot provide original functions and perform them. The budget is not satisfied because we have a situation that due to stagnation of economic activity or growth that is not enough we are not filling up the Republic register enough. The pension fund can't be filled, the health fund can't be charged, the welfare is compromised, and the development is gone. Now someone here has to be an artist financially and to reconcile the development and social component in the budget, to make everyone sieve and all the goats in number. I believe there are few MPs who could round that story to the end, but that's exactly what it is, that the competent ministries are doing their job. Not only do they do it, but to raise efficiency in this work to the limits that will be acceptable to the majority and to this assembly, and especially to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6986	The People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic has the word, and let the MP Dusan Petrovic be prepared. I'll only ask for a moment, Mr. Matić, just to read something. You received notice from the SRS parliamentary group president Tomislav Nikolic that an MP in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly Dragan Ljubojevic passed away on 2 September 2004 and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 19, paragraph 6 and Article 2. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly notes the end of the term of office of MP in the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament, Dragan Ljubojevic. In accordance with Article 19(1), point 6 and Article 2. The law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the election of an MP in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, Dragan Ljubojevic, elected on a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group, on the day of his death, on 2 September 2004. A new MP in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly will be elected in accordance with the Law on the Election of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and on a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you. Now go ahead, Mr. Matić, and get Dusan Petrovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6987	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS will vote for this bill. We believe it is necessary to make changes in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which will allow stability, financing of those layers of the population who expect to get enough money from the budget to live their own, especially pension days, and I am particularly pleased that the item in that section that determines agricultural pensions is increased. They've been neglected for years, they've been dropped from all previous governments, and it's a good thing we have that item in this rebalancing right now that we're increasing. Of course, it is also good that the state, because it is necessary to regain the reputation of both domestic banks and, above all, state institutions, part of the funds that we increase are being recovered from old foreign exchange savings. And even if we add to that for the return of the reputation that this country needs, and I mean the reputation of the international community itself, in the international financial market, the agreement with the London Club certainly requires this rebalancing. That's what's good about it, and that's why we're going to unnecessarily support this budget rebalance proposal. We also heard critics and I will be one of the critics of the Republic government. What part? In the part that was certainly necessary for the Republic government to be present in the work so far in public, which is that the Republic Government comes out to you loud and clearly to state the first appearance of the Republic government and, in particular, the first 15 days, when the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia was drafted. And to remind ourselves of 2002, 2003, stealing the mandate, reminding ourselves of how it was done here, stealing votes in parliament, one general state instability. The darkest days we had during 2003, the murder of the prime minister, an absolutely unstable political situation, a moment that unfortunately lasted long, the moment when the maltenes of all the institutions of the system in this country were broken down. This was what awaited the first appearance of the new Republic government and it was an environment that was worth repairing. Of course this rebalancing depends exactly on those ambiences that preceded the work in this republican government. These are ambiences from the 1990s, from the time of isolation, and this is the environment after October 5th, especially during 2002 and 2003, an environment where the institutions of the system were destroyed. It's not a real business environment. It's an environment that's not a magnet for investors, it's not an environment for a fair, efficient and fast privatisation. It's an ambiance where, if you're planning 16 million from privatisation, you're going to have 1,300, 1,400 privatisations at least 500 that have a problem, and of course it's caused that one part of the budget deficit, which is one of our acute problems today, we have to solve it this way. When critics, who and how they took part in the privatisation in our Republic, say that in time they had been anticipated. objecting to propose that the Republic Government does not enter such amounts in the budget-filled divisions, especially in the privatisation income divisions, let's remind ourselves who made such a plan. Such a plan of rules is the previous government, the government in 15 days, the new government. In March, she didn't have enough time to see what was waiting for her in the privatisation sector and what are the real revenues she can expect. That's the truth. The truth is also that in Serbia, what was worth selling was sold. The truth is, too, that there is nothing left that cannot be sold or can be very difficult to sell. However, we have the opportunity to sell one part of the public sector, and I think this will happen after the restructuring of public enterprises. It takes time, but it takes a general political agreement. Let us only remember how restructuring is carried out in the EPS, where obstructions are being made by any attempt to restructure the EPS and who does all this. They make those to whom the previous government before the New Year's Eve, I guess as a New Year's present, has paid two billion and 100 million dinars. In the name of what? On behalf of returning the extra-profit to the money and waiting for a powerful medium to break it from day one, obstruct and, of course, show roadblocks when the restructuring is launched and describe the figures that will multiply by 100, and not to talk about what has been happening in the last few months. This rebalance has a task, which is one of the priorities, to just reduce the budget deficit, so that the reduced budget deficit at the level of 2.3% of the gross social product, so at that level, introduces us to the order of normal countries, which are completely compatible with the world we want to work with. Another significant part of our macroeconomic policy is certainly a reduction in the external trade deficit. We all know that our customs barriers are almost non-existent and we all know that in this sector our financial experts, especially those involved in the work of the high state authorities, must think carefully about how this part of our policy will focus on production, on what will reduce this deficit to bring our economy back to life. That's the problem, and that's the problem that awaits all of us. I think there must also be a general agreement about that. I know that many, when we put this to the vote, will vote in accordance with their political commitment and I know that many in this House are in the mood for extraordinary parliamentary elections. However, there are fewer of them than those who think this is the time it takes to stabilise the institutions in our Republic. I suggest that if you are already willing to have an emergency election as soon as possible, we agree on the most important act, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then we will have elections at all levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6988	The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Jaksic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6989	Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party is against the budget rebalancing law and it is important that we fully clarify our position. The Democratic Party is against the law because the law on budget rebalancing represents a picture and a final expression of the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The democratic party deeply disagrees with the economic policy that, according to our assessment, has stopped reforms in the country, stopped Serbia's approach to the European Union and has managed to demand the good results that the government of the Republic of Serbia, under the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and during the government of Zoran Zivkovic, has done. Just a few illustrations stemming from a change in individual budget divisions. The division of the economy ministry, as it is said here, is shrinking by 1.2 billion, and out of that 800 million dinars will be less subsidies than anticipated. In principle, the Democratic Party has nothing against this if it were to be an expression of consolidation of 67 or 70 major systems in Serbia in restructuring. However, six, seven or eight months ago nothing was done seriously to restructure these large patients of the Serbian economy. I also want to give an illustration of the restructuring, which took place well between 2001 and 2004. Sabačka "Zorka" has managed to launch several very important companies, such as the mineral fertilizer production company, the zinc production company, enterprises that haven't worked back in ten years, but for seven months we can't get an adviser for the Sabbath "Zorka" at the Privatisation Agency, at the Centre for Reconstruction, because there is no Minister of Economy, because the directors of the Privatisation Agency change every few months because there is no consistent policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this area. Also, a few times here has been expressed the view that restructuring public enterprises is going very badly or is practically not happening and I want to underline it one more time. It is necessary to reach a consensus, at least among the pro-democracy bloc parties, on the need to restructure the entire public sector, especially public enterprises, because it is the most severe disease of Serbian society. It is incorrect here to transfer responsibility for the fact that seven or eight months does nothing in public enterprises to the previous government. The government took office in March of this year and could, if there were political will, take seriously the EPS, NIS, Telekom, ZTP and other public enterprises, but did not because there is no political will to do so. I would like to stress the need for very strict control of the availability of budgetary resources and to take very sharp steps towards budgetary users who are non-intentionally spending taxpayers' money in Serbia. Yesterday, several hundred Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were in front of the building across the street. I would like to introduce you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the public to how the costs of the people who were in front of the Serbian presidency were paid yesterday. They were paid by the University of Pristina by paying for buses by the Health Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica, by paying for buses by the Executive Board of the Zvecan Municipality, by paying for the primary school in Kosovo Mitrovica by paying for the buses and by paying for all around 400,000 dinars by Zubin Potok's authority. This is an accidental spending of taxpayers' money in the Republic of Serbia, and this kind of spending of money is a crime of abuse of the official position. The Democratic Party expects the finance minister, within the authority of the budgetary inspection, to immediately control the data I have provided here, and also to have the health minister and the minister of education enforce under the inspection authority of its ministries the control of budget users. It is unacceptable to conduct politics in this way, and it is unacceptable to spend the money of the Serbian citizens' taxpayers in this way. The Democratic Party will vote against budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6990	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6991	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office of the Presidency, G17 plus, as said by previous speakers from our group, will support the draft budget rebalancing law and we have good arguments for that, stemming from the bill itself and what the minister said in the opening statement. The implementation of the budget in the previous nine months has been quite high and the budget rebalance proposal will only apply to the last quarter, the last three months of this year. The Rebalance did not practically violate the development concept it had at its beginning, it was announced, it was also formed, but also, as it was given, this budget rebalance protects, or retains all those obligations of the state to those categories of citizens, i.e. society, which the state needs to protect economically and what the state must do, which are pensioners, socially endangered persons and unemployed. These are the basic reasons why G17 plus will support this budget rebalance, and all that is given in the proposal is the essence for which we will vote. The budget rebalance decreases the budget deficit from 45.3 billion dinars to 32.7 billion, which will practically give a budget deficit that is lower than the one that was in 2003. What is important is that the deficit reduction will not be realised by increasing taxes, i.e. it will not reduce the budget deficit by new burdens on taxpayers, but will go towards a reduction in public spending. But even if there is a reduction in military isolation as one of the biggest users, the army will have an 8.5% salary increase in the coming period. This rebalancing envisions an increase in some of the items in the budget for those categories of population that the state is economically protecting, by 3.1 billion dinars for the PIO Fund, which is very important for our citizens - 3.3 billion dinars of increasing the Fund for Agricultural Pensions, which are also delayed; the delay did not occur in the period that this government is in Serbia, but in earlier periods; and two billion dinars of increasing unemployment benefits in Serbia. Also, in addition to reducing public spending through this budget rebalancing proposal, we will have an increase in those transferred funds that the government, or the state from the budget, transfers to local self-governments, i.e. municipalities and cities, amounting to 375 million dinars. One of the more important reasons why this proposal for budget rebalancing was the service of external debt, for which, when the budget was adopted, it could not be foreseen whether or not it would be in what amount. It is a service of debt that is often mentioned at $6.9 billion, and this year the budget will rebalance the funds of 2.4 billion. If we don't accept budget rebalancing, if we refuse this item, we'll practically go according to that people's -- if you don't pay on the bridge, you'll pay at the keg -- lose $1.7 billion of what's supposed to be written off under the London Agreement. It's to make a comparative, or 6.9 billion total foreign debt that we have, about 25%. Of course, by introducing this item, the savings and benefits that the state will have by adopting this bill in the Serbian Parliament, and as it is evident, not only on this deadline that awaits us in the next three months, but much longer term. There have been talks about how the increase in gross social product, which is not so small this year, is about 8%, as is industrial production moving in relations between 6% and 7%, the result of the previous government's engagement in the period while privatisation was carried out in Serbia. I've got to do a little compression, or a little replacement for thesis. It is certain that privatisation has affected the increase in gross social product and the increase in industrial production. But given how many complaints we have only on the Privatisation Committee, about how many bad privatisations have been made, privatisations in which there have been criminal actions or where there is no respect for the obligations of those who have emerged as buyers, we can assume that this privatisation has been carried out differently. How much would the funds be, and how much, in that case, would be the growth of social income and the increase of industrial production? We can look at things from one angle or another, it all depends on what our interest is. If privatisation was better, we'd have much better results now. As for the restructuring of companies, of course we can speak from different aspects of those who have participated so far until the end of 2003 in this business. Of course they'll declare it a good activity for a good government job. But if we look at it now from this aspect, how many problems are there and how many unrealised jobs are in the restructuring of businesses, and how much is done, then of course it looks a little different. I come from Pirot, from the city and municipality where there was once a strong industrial centre, in which there were many large or large enterprises, manufacturing companies, in which none of the restructuring was done, none of the privatisation was done until the end of 2003. Short on one subject that has been mentioned, interpreted in different ways, to the point that this rebalancing will now be a reduction in some subsidies, to the fact that there will be virtually no more subsidies. Things are a little different in the area of agriculture. It will decrease with this rebalance of the subsidy budget by one billion and 200 million dinars, but it will remain 11 billion dinars. From now on, 7 billion dinars have been realised in this item. That's how much the government has focused on agricultural subsidies. The 11 billion dinars will be more than the government has allocated in the previous term by 2003 for agricultural subsidies. Let's just add the 2.9 billion dinars that the government has allocated from the budget to buy this year's wheat. The consequences of adoption in this home of this kind of budget rebalancing are not only for the 2004 period, but also further. I expect the MPs to understand the importance of adopting such an act and to vote in favour, as G17 plus will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6992	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let the People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's kind of common for the government and the opposition to argue and persecute whether we needed a rebalancing, whether at the beginning of the year or at the end of the previous year we indicated that we would need what kind of budget we needed, the most important law. I think at this point we have a more significant question that we don't have an answer to, which is the strategic direction of Serbia, what is what we are doing, what is what we are going to do in the future to make our people live better. If we stop with empty stories and pointless explanations, to attack one of the political opponents, we listen every day - tomorrow we will be in the European Union, the day after 2007, in 2010. Now they, the European Commission, which is a kind of European government, are telling us publicly -- I say this because of the citizens of Serbia, of whom it is hidden, and those you finance under the direct order of Gordana Suša - the European Commission said that by 2012, there will be no admission to the European Union, neither Croatia nor many other countries, let alone Serbia or Serbia-Montenegro. It's another eight years that I'm sure it won't be, and then it's a question. So for the next ten years, we need to watch how we're going to live, how we survive, how we're going to improve production and what it is that we can do to an ordinary man, a worker, a farmer, a pensioner, a clerk, to improve our standard of living, above all. Through that we have to look at every budget, through which we have to look at what is the most important law. There will always be - the opposition is against it, because the vote on the budget shows who is the government and who is the opposition. This is the most important thing, with the government's election, with the choice of executive authority. So, voting on the budget is what defines you whether you're the government or the opposition. I don't want to talk about whether someone bought someone, whether someone gave someone money, whether some oilers got involved in the whole game or not. Some others explain and speak to their voters about it. We are the opposition political party, we have numerous objections, we have them on the budget, we have them on budget rebalance. Of course we'll be against this kind of budget. This time, if it weren't for every time we criticized the government just to criticize it, I would criticise it for its relationship with the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, you can't have "The Fist" on your favorite radio or television station, anyway, to be more important than the MPs. So it must not happen to you, to anyone. It must not happen that there is no one from the government, except you, in the benches of the National Assembly. Do they have better things to do today? Do they have anything else to do today? Today we are making a decision, today we are discussing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Is there anything more important? What will they be present for, what will they do in life? Does this mean that they are not interested in the National Assembly? We've secured the machinery, someone's paid somewhere, someone's been trading with this or that, and we don't care. Whether it is a relationship, not with the MPs, it is a relationship with the citizens of Serbia. Now I want to say something, since we have a buffalo executive power. We have the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't want to react earlier to the ugly, creepy words that were spoken here about people who protested yesterday in front of the Serbian presidency. They say there's a school, some administration paid for the buses. The poor woman came to Belgrade, people who care about the future of their children, whose head is in a bag every day in Kosovo and Metohija, who worry about how they will survive, what they will do for their families and families. They came to the People's Office to see their president, and they were welcomed by the gendarmes and the special police. Is that what budget money's all about? Is that the People's Office we're talking about? Is that why these contracts need an increase, that some might pay a lot more, so the problem is that people came to protest? You bet they are. What are you going to do, ban the demonstration against the president? Comrade Tito was born again, so no one can say anything. Well, laugh and talk. They'll talk because there's no higher salary, no higher pensions, and because people live worse and worse. These salaries, pensions and new jobs were not promised only by Dinkic and he did not promise us only Kostunica, they were promised by Tadic in the election campaign. He literally said, "I'll do anything and I guarantee I'll make sure everyone travels freely around the world and they don't have visas." What we got -- a visa for Romania, and we'll get for Bulgaria. All the others stayed on the same level as we had before. He said, "Dear friends, I want to get you higher wages, you have to live off your work." Serbs are worth it. All citizens of Serbia are worthy, hardworking, real hosts. Do they have bigger salaries? What he did, except he was a psychotherapist to our players at the Olympics, when they lost 6-0, so after psychotherapy, they lost 5-1 to the "great power" that Australia is. Is that the job of the President of the Republic? When the people come to him, the poor people, when the hungry people come, the people who don't even have a house, who care about how they will survive on their land, then you will wave bills and that 400,000 is spent. You're waving bills, which you've been embezzling in every photocopier you've ever bought. I expect that in the next period, that's the main thing we have to do and then we'll have a better budget, and that's what we have to do -- fight corruption at all levels. Now I'm telling you, the reports we get from local self-government, reports of where they ruled you, and people just scratched the surface. The reports are terrible. Serbian citizens will soon be able to see it. No fax machine, no photocopiers that didn't fit in with 10%, 20%, 50%, somewhere and 100%. It's the money of Serbian citizens. That's what we need to talk about, how we can use that money and invest it in agriculture, in our factories, in development projects, to start working and building in Serbia, not how Serbia can be robbed. That's the difference between you and me. I'll cut to the chase. It is said in the budget's rebalance: we are going to two billion increases to pay off foreign loans. We have to serve our obligations, but I ask the government -- people, do you think that not all citizens can take these loans, lisings, without participation, miracles offered to them in all newspapers, billboards, means of information? I can, but every man thinks whether or not I'm going to take some of it, whether or not I'm going to do something, because how I'm going to pay back, how much I'm going to owe my family, how much I'm going to owe those who help me, how and how I'm going to do it. Did we change anything about that? No, we're all the same. We have 8.9 billion debts from international financial institutions, according to budget rebalancing. Is that what we should always brag about? I think we should take favourable loans, get into favourable arrangements, but every time we think about it three times before we cut, because we'd better not be in debt. It's better if we go on as little as possible, not as big. Of the 3.7 billion donations, there's nothing. No one's going to invest in a corrupt country. No, because corruption has become a global problem. We have five billion dinars less for the army. Everyone's going to say, we know -- there's going to be reforms, everything's going to be much better, it's going to be much easier. We've heard that story a hundred times, and the army's going down more and more every day. Let's not talk about the pride and dignity of these people, talk about what they live on. These men have nothing to live on, first of all officers, but also soldiers. Worse and worse is the standard of living for those who go into the army, those who are not professionals, and for professionals not to talk. We have a reduction for agriculture, directly, of 1.5 billion dinars, and 900 million taken from the Veterinary Administration. Of course, the minister had to make the balance, other ministers did it, there was not one that has never done it before, and I don't want to be the one to say, all the worst has come with Dinkic, it's never happened before. Yes, it is. Everyone did something like that and did it. But I remind him that he boasted six months ago here that this is essentially an agrarian budget, that it's an incomparably better attitude towards agriculture than he's ever been before, that agriculture will flourish, that we'll be incomparably better off. And thanks, first of all, to the industriousness of the peasants, to their value, but also to the good conditions that have followed them all and for which the government is not responsible and responsible, we have an increase in production. So, not because of these measures, but something else entirely. I want to talk about what is the essential problem of this government, but also the previous and many others. We have some NGOs and some living wonders that are funded by Serbian citizens, and I'm sure they don't even know how to fund them. This is how Serbian citizens finance the European Union's accession office with 13 million and I welcome Mr Dinkic's decision to cut it by 43 million. I have to ask you, is that someone messing with the people, if it's someone who's distracting the citizens of Serbia in the worst way and trying to tell them, you citizens don't understand anything, and we're just gonna take your money. The European Commission has told us that by 2012 it will not even think about us. We will spend on an annual basis who knows how many millions to wait for 2012 and then to hear a new decision by 2015 or 2020. Who knows what will happen in the world by then. We've got the Lustration Commission that got the 1,400,000. What Commission is that? What are you doing? Who are these people? What do they do? It's an amazing miracle in this country, so it's important that there's someone that's on the state budget and that money's being spent, it's some of them come up with what they really did in this congregation, and this congregation didn't look like a congregation. Today, when I see them, I hope and I am confident that they will never be elected by the citizens of Serbia again. But I am also one who hopes, and I have never feared them and whatever they have done and whatever fear they have carried out, I hope that because of the citizens of Serbia, such phantom ideas will never occur to them again, that their political opponents are removed from political life. Since they can't do otherwise, they can't scare them, they can't go to jail, they can't do anything, they can't beat them, then, come on, we'll bring our commission to kick them out of parliament, which will kick them out of the government or anywhere else. I hope that time's over. That's why I'd ask you no longer to fund this kind of nonsense, Mr. Dinkic, because I'm confident that everyone here is your colleagues, and I'm sure even you yourself, you find that notorious nonsense. Listen to this, please. We have an Agency to improve the state administration, which we pay out of the budget. We have the Diaspora Relations Agency, we have the Ministry, I don't know what we need with the Diaspora Relations Agency. We have an Energy Efficiency Agency, believe it or not. We have, listen to this, the Ministry of Environmental Protection – 4.120,000,000, then we have the Environment Protection Authority with 306,000,000, and then we have the Environment Protection Agency – 2.7 million. Don't, please, so if we also have a recycling agency – 16,000,000. This is someone playing with the citizens of Serbia. The existence of such agencies and such miracles, such and such NGOs supporting Serbian citizens can only be a reason for corruption and nothing more, and that is clear to everyone. Corruption is the most severe disease that has made society sick and we all have to win together. This has nothing to do with political parties, it has nothing to do with whether you belong to that or this party, this is what everyone has to do, and we all have to win together, and all people want it. We have in the budget, rebalance RTS 3,200,000, for Gordan Susha. I'm not sorry that the workers are receiving, the cameramen, that the journalists are receiving, that people who honor themselves are doing their job, but I'm very sorry that the big money receives Gordan Suša, because it doesn't run both national and national television, but it runs the Democratic Party's television and it acts that way. She's been acting like that, and she's acting like it today, and I don't know what you're doing. You, Mr. Aligrudic, come out and say something about it. You're the one sitting in government, you're the head of a parliamentary group representing most. Do you know what she did with that TV? We went to the duel Mr. Bogdanovic and I, and I don't want to talk about anything else, it ended up a duel. Since she couldn't do anything at the duel, then they waited for the Dnevnik behind it, so Gordana Suša is anyone she called on the phone, and whoever's in the Democratic Party, to show up and say a sentence against me. And let me ask you, is that somewhere, is it possible to let Oliver Ivanovic go last night, as if he were some kind of factor, if he was involved in some protests. Who is this man? Who's he representing, Mr. Aligruditch? Is that the one who took the big state money, the 1,650,000, that's what his share is there, Mr. Aligrudic, is that it, so it should be asked because he defends Boris Tadic. Is that why, Mr. Aligrudic, because no one is allowed to say anything against another Tito in this country, because he thinks he should, it's a miracle that he now doesn't calm all the sides of the world, that he doesn't bring peace into all the African countries, Asian countries and everywhere, so Gordan Suša will also be helping him in this peace project around the world. Not the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Aligrudic, that they pay. Ladies and gentlemen, you say, budget rebalancing is something we have to bring, because we will be much better off, and all those who vote against them are actually voting against the citizens of Serbia, and especially against the pensioners. They especially vote against those who are the most endangered. We have heard this every time here, from those who wanted to explain to us at all costs that only they are good and good enough to manage this country, because they are Europeans, because they are for the future of Serbia in the European Union, so we have heard that by 2012, we cannot even hear about the European Union, they are big Democrats, so they voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. (Dusan Petrovic: Who's this about? This is about criminals from the Democratic Party, Mr Petrovic. I'm not hiding anything, I'm telling you in your face, Mr. Petrovic. Since they always think that someone will be afraid of them, they count on them to be a great force, and I see that in certain municipalities people threaten, not against them, just a democratic block. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They want people against corruption and crime, and that's why you're losing power everywhere, slowly but surely, in all places, in all municipalities. It's not for those who've been embezzling in photocopiers, at the cost of fax machines, at the cost of every fixed phone, they're not going to. These are changes that Serbia needs, and it needs different budgets, it needs a different government, different government, but not one that will be much worse, worse, but one that will bring changes in the interests of Serbian citizens, one that can tell them, that, people, we have a difficult situation and we have to make such cuts, difficult cuts, in all areas of the economy, our economy, we go into privatisation, but there is no law for seven months, the laws on changes and additions to the Privatisation Act, to put it on the agenda. Because it improves control of the very course of the privatisation process. There's no thieving, there's no tendering. That's what's changing. Well, that's the kind of change we need. Fighting corruption, change in economy, fast, efficient, clear, recognizable, transparent and above all fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6994	The replica is wanted by Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6995	Mr. Wolf, if someone on state television is doing what you say you've been done, it's certainly not good, and if you've called me to say it, I'll repeat it here. I'll say it like that. There will be some changes in RTS. Already yesterday they were announced by the accession of the Third Channel to state television again, and the reasons why the Third Channel was returned to state television, the director of these same televisions said. And as for the editorial concept, it's subject to change. So if what you told me is true, even though I can't verify it, then it's definitely something that's subject to any change. And, in that sense, I can support you. But on the other hand, you've had a good speech a little while, where you've talked about everything and everything, and you've mentioned Mr. Tadic. Of course, the fact that you mentioned it, and especially what concerns these people who protested yesterday, it's not just your privilege. It's something we can get out of here, too, to support. Thus, it is not directed and not polite to wave any paper in this congregation, which speaks of the source of any means, which they supported or did not support the coming of someone to protest. And, indeed, in that sense, I can join you in this attitude. It's just that what's said here is not good. It's not good at all. Because, in the end, and that someone unintended, from sources of local self-government, paid for such a visit, it is because it has caused some suffering to do so, not because someone purposely wanted to spend non-intentional funds, or to damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, it's clear what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6996	Thank you. The base of communication, Mr. Petrovic? Replica? You have no right to a replica, you are neither president nor vice president, only if you have personally felt called, please. So, you can't on behalf of the MPs' group, for your own sake, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6997	So, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is very interesting. I'm touched, Mr. Aligrudic, by your support for the Wolf, and these are the signs we're following and we'll see where it ends. Mr. Wolfie, it's tragic how difficult it is to endure defeats. You'd better not run any more, you'll lose every time. Because a lie is the basic instrument of your policy and that you use lies wherever you appear, and from this pay phone, and when you perform on the media. But there's another problem. You, Mr. Wolfie, are a professional patriot. When there was a war in this country in 1999, you didn't mind moving into an apartment of, what was, the aris you got. So, when the bombs fell in Serbia, you got the apartment, you professional patriot. You have no right, Mr. Wolfie, professional loser, to inform you that the election is over, to comment on anyone. Besides, it's no one else in Serbia and I don't care. I'd be very happy to have you running again, because you're going to lose whatever race you're running, and, Mr. Aligrudic, if someone's tormented to break the law, I didn't know you supported it. No pain, no abuse of position is unforgivable, no matter what pain it is, and certainly no pain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6998	Thank you. Are you answering the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, it was a replica of your presentation (receives to MP Vukic). Please, just wait a minute. Please, Mr. Vlahovic... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please give me a moment, I've received a different notice, you can be patient. You want a replica because you claim that it was according to the Rules of Procedure (receives to MP Vukic), and you want to be an authorised representative of the parliamentary group (receives to MP Vlahovic). Replication to Mr. Wolf's presentation? Okay, just a minute. Mr. Vukic, I'm getting confirmation from the Vice President of the Assembly that it was a replica of your exposure. You can't get a replica. You can, of course, replica on exposure... (both MPs insist on getting a word.)... Please, of course, report to the Rules of Procedure as soon as Mr Vlahović is finished (to MP Vukic). Please, I asked you and you told me you were answering for a replica. I'll give you my word right now. ( Addresses MP Vukic) Here you are, Mr. Vlahovic, if you are an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Just a moment, at this point, is an authorised representative. Please, there is no reason, please welcome as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, a replica to Mr. Vukic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u6999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word and by respecting the Rules of Procedure, I have come forward as a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group for the presentation of Mr. Vukic. So it seems to me that the Radical Party believes that our people have experienced collective amnesia and has forgotten the period of great SRS rule in Serbia, along with their coalition partner. He forgot the famous red-and-black coalition, as the people called it, forgot the period when we found it most difficult, when bombs fell in Belgrade, when bombs fell all over Serbia, when the Kuman agreement was signed, or rather -- Kumanovska capitulation, in which you participated, not the Democratic Party, and not the other parties. He forgot the period when you were, right, chasing in the front lines, but the new squares of living space, when you were chasing at the freedom and independence of the media, when you were chasing free words, when you were leading the fear. If you're going to offer that again to the citizens of Serbia, I'm afraid you won't have a chance, because as my predecessor said, you've become truly professional losers together. I told you after the presidential election - in the next election you go down, in the elections after you're quiet down. And that, now, in these local elections, has shown itself, where the Democratic Party has won the most convincing votes and has become Serbia's first political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7000	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Angelkovic. Mr. Vlahovic, just a moment, please, I haven't interrupted you, although you have abused Article 97. Please, I am warning all MPs - in the future, if the replica is taken, and in no way is invited, in response, to what the replica is given, I will apply Article 97(3) and interrupt the speaker. Now, Mr. Vukic's replica of Mr. Dusan Petrovic's exposure, if I understand correctly, or Mr. Vlahovic's exposure? To Mr. Vlahovic; then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7001	So, I have to admit, I'm very pleased. I expected the entire Democratic Party Parliament Club to report, to feel called, because I talked all the time about corruption and crime. I knew they'd all be recognized and answered. And let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7002	Now I'm warning you, Mr. Wolfie. If you continue to insult the MPs, I will be forced to take away the word. Be kind, no offensive expressions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7003	Mr. Markovic, you've allowed them to present the worst personal insults and lies. They even said words that don't like politicians. As for my score in the Belgrade mayoral election, I had 48.46% in the second election round. I congratulated you before the final results were released, it was done honorably, as all citizens of Serbia saw, not only Belgrade. I went against everyone, no one supported me except the citizens of Belgrade on a huge scale. I'm happy about it, and I'm sure next time it'll be even better. It's good that you underestimate that result and underestimate those people. Now, what can I tell you? Maybe I'll lose next time. What you've mentioned for the fifth time, I have to tell them in a nice way, because I don't want to sound like them, so I got 63 square meters from the state, I gave my rest, I don't have any more than property anywhere, but you, you thieves, who stole hectares and took from citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7004	Please, I warned you the second time, I warned you now. Be kind, no expressions like this, or I'll take your word for it. Here you go. You've got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7005	You, who robbed Serbia for four years, robbed and kidnapped factories from the people and put money in your pockets, you who have 10 houses...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7006	I take away your word, I keep my promise, for insulting the MPs of the people. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7007	Why didn't you take his word? Don't play hard on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7008	Be nice. I'm not strict. Because I didn't lead the Assembly before, led by Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7009	Let me finish by the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7010	Please, I warned you not to insult the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7011	You want to let me finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7012	I asked you to step away from the pay phone. Be kind, extremely correct. Mr. Wolfie, be nice. Mr. Wolf, I warned you twice, and I said I would take your word from you if you continue to insult the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7013	You don't have to hear the transmission, you criminals, you'll end up where you belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7014	Be kind and stay away from the pay phone. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zoran Angelkovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7015	First, I apologize to Mr. President, because I didn't just go out for a pay phone, but I think we should make some kind of order here in Parliament, and we shouldn't fight after the microphone, everyone will come in line. I see no reason for the president to be angry about it. Of course, I was forced to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Vlahovic has an obsession with the Socialist Party of Serbia. I understand him. When you have 130 municipality presidents by yesterday, and now you only have 23 and the Socialist Party of Serbia 25, you have a problem. I get that. That's your problem, not the problem of this assembly. Secondly, you're actually the main losers of this local election, and you know it, you should accept it. You had four mayors, and now you've got one in Belgrade with six thousand, forced. It's your right to brag about it, but the citizens know the result. Don't bring us up to this, it's not our fault, it's your fault. Thirdly, when you mention the Kumanski Agreement, I remind you that for three years in this Parliament and in the public, you have embraced Resolution 1244 and only through Resolution 1244 have you defended Kosovo and Metohija, and in every other sentence you have spoken -- Resolution 1244 must be implemented, Resolution 1244 defends Serbs in Kosovo, Resolution 1244 defends Serbia. Resolution 1244 is, in fact, the basis of the Kumanovo Agreement. The Kumanian deal is only part of the resolution. There would be no Kumanovo Agreement if it hadn't been for a resolution, and if it hadn't been for a resolution, it would have been accepted by the ultimatum that you now want, along with your president, to be independent of Kosovo within three years. We didn't give it, we're proud of it, and let your president do it, it's your right, but I know that the citizens of Serbia and this assembly will never accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7016	Thank you. You're reporting as well? (Alexander Vlahovic, from the place: Replica. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7017	This is a replica of what Mr. Dusan Petrovic was saying. Mr. Petrovic, you didn't have a line on me, you had a Mr. Wolf. So this is a replica of what you brought out. I responded to Mr. Wolfich's replica for two reasons. First because he mentioned RTS's editorial policy, because RTS was mentioned. Then I had this presentation and what Mr. Vucic considers to be the right of certain things, which he presents here, to be the privilege of the SRS, and I know that here most of the MPs are behind the single position, behind everything we have adopted after the March events in the Serbian Parliament, behind the single position, most of the MPs. He says, some have changed their mind about how the cosmetic question should be addressed. It was a pain in the ass, and that was the reason I mentioned that pain when I was talking about people who came here to protest. It's her pain. And I don't just know, if you're talking about crime and illegality, which tormented the assembly majority in these past three years to steal parliamentary mandates, which tormented the government of the Republic of Serbia to produce affairs, the former government of the Republic of Serbia, and the sugar affair in this country, which made them suffer for such a kind of crime. That's what I'm asking tonight. There's something else I want to ask you. If you are so willing to claim that there are criminal acts in what you call financing arrivals at such a rally, to such a protest, well, go ahead and publicly file criminal charges against people and thus make your move towards Kosovo's problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7018	Mr. Vlahovic, a replica of Mr. Angelkovic's presentation, which spoke according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7019	This is what I'm saying to the public, not because of you, you already know it, but you won't say it, because the numbers don't add up. In the past local elections, DS won 461,000 votes. The first one won 390,000, and those who are reportedly returning won only 180,000 votes. So much for the deployment of political forces on the political scene in Serbia. And that's the continuation of that trend we've had in previous elections. As for the crime, which, Mr. President, was spoken of before I asked for a replica and I didn't make a mistake in my replica, please look at the stenographic notes, so you'll see. As far as crime is concerned, as far as the sugar affair is concerned, consult a small ruling coalition, you will find whoever is directly responsible for the sugar affair there. As for these calls, see how these affairs ended, how the courts ruled in all these affairs. Is there any valid solution to the courts that came out and confirmed -- yes, it was a robbery, yes, it was a crime. Don't let us talk about this box of hard words. The people of Serbia are over the heads of heavy words, heavy accusations, and are unargued. Indeed, because, most often, there is actually a gap in politics, in a political strategy, in a political programme. When you have nothing to offer, then hit everyone in crime and in affairs they don't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7020	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Replic on? (Alexander Vukic, from the site: At the exhibition of Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7021	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that you are, Mr. President, but I won't waste any time on that, incorrectly treating me, compared to your relationship with your coalition partners this morning, and perhaps today, it doesn't matter, you just took my word, you didn't, even though I was telling the truth, and they didn't. Now I'm going to prove it to you. Namely, one of the speakers said that at the time of the war I was moving in somewhere, etc. As you said those words about lies, so verbs, I won't say it, but you didn't tell the truth. Secondly, you were talking about the red-and-black coalition. I don't know what that means. I don't know who your black man is, who your red man is. I know that all citizens are black from torment and misery because of your reign, which you have done to them and made for them. Citizens, I've heard you talk about colors, only God is asking not to be ruled by the yellow-green coalition, Suljo, Tadic and Kasa. The people of God pray that this yellow-green coalition never wins. Speaking of crime and corruption, you're talking about the void or the filling, I don't know what, but I have to say that I don't think there's a more important topic for the citizens of Serbia right now. We can't go forward. To us, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank says we are at the top of countries that have major problems with corruption. This is a big problem, and we cannot economically recover the country until we solve the problem and the issue of corruption. Then the key problem comes to us how and how we will treat citizens. They promise the people's office, they say, "Come, peoples, come, we will receive you." The people come before their president's building and the people can't come anymore. He can't get into the building, he can't talk to his president, because they're waiting for him with visors, bats, helmets and say, "You can't go on." The people are thinking about how they're gonna survive the next night, how they're gonna get the kids a better tomorrow. What I hear from you, that story, come out and start yelling every time – you've been chasing squares. Let's measure the squares, change the property. You've had all sorts of thievings coming in, all the municipalities taking people, not letting you out, because everything you've come to steal, everything you've arrived you've taken from the citizens, and now you're going to see it. After four years of your government in local self-government, people will see that you have been embezzling on photocopier machines, because the only thing you knew you were doing was taking it from the citizens. The citizens have come to return theirs. Since the time has come for the citizens to return, you will go elsewhere, and in this assembly some other people will sit down after the next election. Change is what is most important for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7022	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7023	I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, paragraph 1, which reads: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, that is to say, incorrectly interprets his presentation, etc." I'm also advocating an injury to article 100. Rules of Procedure. What I'm saying is that the Democratic Party has always grown European values towards national minorities in this country and thus differed from most other parties, while being no less patriotic, no less party that will contribute to the development of its country, and that will remain the Democratic Party. I am sorry that national minorities do not want to co-operate with some other parties, in which they do not recognise the values recognised in the European Union that we are seeking. As for the replacement of property or the offer to replace the property that was given here, I am personally not ready to share my property with anyone, because my property has been created for 14 years by doing professionally my job in which I have built my name, unlike many MPs who do not have one day's work, but are professional politicians, without any profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7024	You have been given the right to speak on the basis of Article 100, since Article 97 is not injured, he is only talking about the right to replication, and at the same time, I remind you, that we should not deceive the public, all the parties present in this assembly among their members have representatives of national minorities and it is not correct to express ourselves correctly any party on this basis. Do you want a replica to be displayed by the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7025	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must say I am not well interpreted. We have a vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party, which is Bulgarian by nationality. Now, after these elections, if you are not informed, we have power in Vienna with Hungarian parties. In Temerin, the president of the municipal assembly is Hungarian, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, who won the Temerin elections. I didn't mention the Sulja Ugljanin and Joseph Kasu because they are other nationalities, but because you have one common feature. They're hectares, that's a question. When you enter Serbia, you enter Casa's country, because everything he could steal, he stole. When you're talking about the Sulja Ugljanin, not because of its nationality or religious commitment, because it can happen with other people of the same, its religious commitment and its national belongings right in Pazar and in some other places we make a coalition. There we received four councilors, and all the other parties, including your party who went into the Serb party alliance, that was a difference between those political parties you're talking about and you got two mandates. Mr. Vlahovic, you seem to be not well informed and I must note that we want to cooperate with all Serbian citizens without any difference, and we do not mind a Serbian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Romanian or Slovak. We respect them equally, respect them, and love them all, but what we do differ is honest people from thieves. There are thieves in Serbs, in Hungarians, in Muslims, in all others, and it is honorable and fair to tell the thief in the mustache that he is a thief, a criminal, because they are good Serbian words. I don't know what other word to come up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7026	The word has a People's MP Dusan Prorokovic, and let the MP Slobodan Mihajlovic be prepared. Dusan Prorokovic is not there, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlovic. Let the People's Messenger Nadika Momirov be prepared. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that crime is not a Serbian word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7027	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our turn to return to the subject tonight. Obviously, the local elections are over, so we don't talk about it anymore, let's get back to the subject of the budget. I'm sorry I couldn't say hello to the finance minister, if it was the afternoon, the prime minister or one of the ministers from the government, since we still have half an hour until the end. First of all, I think it was necessary for the Minister of Agriculture, or the Coordinator of the Ministry of Agriculture, to appear and the Minister of Capital Investment, given that these ministries are the largest items that have been reduced, budget expenditures, and therefore we should have explained to our citizens what is practically involved. After the presentation of the parliamentary club DS - Boris Tadic, in which the authorised representative explained in detail why DS would not support this draft law on changes and additions to budgets, I will only pay attention to a few drastic cuts in expenditure items. First of all, in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the agrarian complex has already been said that when the budget was adopted in March this year, one of the components of the new budget was that agrarian part. But here we have the spending side cut by 9.88% or 2.2 billion dinars. I think 1.2 billion dinars for agriculture are reduced in budget expenditure, that's a pretty big item, and by erasing some of the items in the budget, which contributed to 2.2 billion figures, we can freely say that the important items have disappeared through the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. It should be said that this amendment shows that there is no component, that the budget was agrarian. A second significant decrease occurred in the Ministry of Capital Investments, where the spending side was cut by 3.5 billion dinars, of 10.97%, of which most in the Roads Directorate 2.6 billion dinars. You are witnessing writing in the press that construction companies are asking this ministry for about 2.5 billion dinars. In what way will the government, or state, settle those debts? So I think the Minister of Capital Investments should have been here and explained to our citizens how this will be done, if the promises were made by the Minister of Capital Investments, and the papers have several times written about it. The third is the Ministry of Economy, with the largest reduction in these budget expenditures of 17.53% or 1,633 billion dinars. The largest decrease within the ministry itself was in subsidies, around 1.1 billion dinars, and within that, 400 million dinars in the Development Fund. A brief analysis of this reduction tells us that it prevents the establishment of institutions, such as License agencies of bankruptcy managers. It cannot be founded because of this reduction, and it is therefore difficult to apply the Bank's Law, and we are talking about a small segment, that this proposal is not reformal, or that the budget itself does not have that character. In the end, one of the major cuts was due to military financing, at the defence ministry. It has already been said for this speaker that it is about 5.5, or 5,650,000, and that the largest items are reductions in that part, materials, machines and equipment, or buildings. For materials 2.3 billion, for machines and equipment about 2 billion and a building 1.1 billion dinars. I wouldn't comment on this, it's already said enough, but I think you should point out for the public to see where this kind of budget cuts come from. In the end, I would like to comment on the inflation part, which is caused by the rise in oil prices, as said by the finance minister, and that this is the cause of such phenomena. At the same time, however, there is at the same time the destruction of NIS by disrespecting last year's regulation that the price of oil, i.e. oil derivatives, is corrected in line with the purchase of oil on the world market. As soon as that collection exceeds a percentage of 2.5, the price correction follows. Which is why domestic oil counts at $22.5 per barrel, while the world price is twice as high, which is why, under the government's promise at the start of the government's mandate, that the restructuring of EPS and NIS in this part will be done, the NIS is left aside and benefits for some other goals, and the loss in 4.5 months alone on this basis alone amounts to $120m, to total 300m. If something doesn't change at this point, if this trend continues, a billion dinars will come out. Why NIS, i.e. Naftagas, or Jugopetrol, does not enter into restructuring and why this is not approached, but even different causes of inflation are interpreted, which are linked to the rise in oil prices on the foreign market, and domestic oil is used at twice the price. Finally, for the sake of our citizens and the public, the voted Budget Act of March this year is neither realistic nor economic, which is witnessed by this draft law amending and supplementing the Budget Act, which is on the agenda today, but is primarily based on some unreal pre-election promises of the ruling coalition or, as one has already said, on a populist basis, that this, when the proposal is on the agenda, is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7028	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7029	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honored Presidency, G17 Plus will vote for this law, not because it is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, headed by Mr. Dinkic, but because the draft law on budget rebalancing contributes to citizens. I am not talking from a professional point of view, but from a public perspective, because Minister Dinkic has already spoken to us from a professional point of view and will talk if necessary. If you want to improve the economic situation of one household, you can do it in three ways - by increasing the income of that household or reducing expenditure, or both. The question is, what do you get by saving, how do you improve the economic situation? In this particular case, you get a better redistribution of expenditure in favour of the Social, Health and Pension Insurance Fund, you get a repayment of old foreign exchange savings, macroeconomic stability, halts the growth of the external trade deficit. The biggest benefit from budget rebalancing will be the Republic PIO Fund. The income goes up by as much as three billion dinars. All that says is it makes sense that all MPs are voting for this budget rebalance proposal. However, we have heard some criticism here. We've heard that's not good, and the reason for that is because I say so. Gentlemen, we don't have time to listen to DS praises about what they did and what they said. It's known what they were doing. When we compare the work of the previous and these governments, we can easily see one thing, which is that the previous government had a great, favourable situation, a great affection for the international community, donations, loans, etc. It is unfair to compare three years of work by the previous government with the work of the nine-month government. What we were saying were findings without arguments. We heard in March that the draft budget was not good because it was not well-designed. For me, that's no argument, that finding that the budget is not well-designed. Will that kind of statement bring in pensions tomorrow? He won't. The matter is very simple: if we do not vote this budget rebalance proposal, there will be no pension, there will be no pension for farmers and all that is stated to happen. If we vote, it will be. It's very simple. DS and SRS MPs won't vote, and they don't have to. That's what they'll answer to their constituents. However, there is a majority in this assembly who will vote for this proposal. It's good and goes in favor of all citizens. As far as saving for the military is concerned, it is clear that the SRS is against it, because they are known as the party representing, among other things, the war interests. As far as DS is concerned, and the story of the army, that it's not a good budget cut for the military, it's pure demagogy for me. You take care of military reform, you don't worry about the state of social health insurance, for example. This budget rebalance improves the state of social and health insurance. But who cares? We're still interested in political points, we're interested in raising the party's ratings. That's what we see here and that's what Serbian citizens see. The SRS's not voting for this budget rebalance, it's understandable. However, it is a big surprise for me that the DS will not vote for this budget rebalance proposal. You have no reason not to vote and you haven't given a single argument in favor of it. I appeal to all present MPs to vote in favour of this budget rebalancing proposal because it contributes to all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7030	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and may the MP Radojko Obradovic be prepared if there is time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard in the opening statement of Mr. Minister that this rebalancing is necessary for several reasons. One of these reasons is the revenue side of the budget, because it allegedly makes a certain tax relief, so it had to redistribute funds to the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that there was an increase in gross national income, products, etc., so that, according to it, income increases in one part, when it comes to taxes, and that this rebalance should be regulated. However, when I look at the Budget Law and the Bill on Amendments and Law Supplements, I do not see that logic with this argument. It is true that the item - general taxes on goods and services, by law124. 425,000, and according to Bill 132,794,000. You can see a certain increase. However, as the minister wants to say this is due to an increase in production, I do not agree, this is the result of inflation, which is already breaking through the estimated amounts and which is certainly affecting the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the other hand, there is one consequence directly affected by the government, which is amendments and additions to the Excise Act, when excise duties on motor gasoline and other oil derivatives have been increased. Now you claim that the biggest reason for such a drastic increase in oil and oil derivatives is the rise of the world's oil price. However, in any case, there are also merits for this government by increasing excise duties, so that those excise duties, which participate as a basis for taxation, are ultimately shown in the part where the items of income are based on taxes and other taxes. I'm not clear -- profit tax and capital gains, which are paid by companies and other legal entities, by law - 6.661.194,000, and according to the bill, by this rebalancing -- 6,864,000, if we know that this assembly recently reduced the corporate tax from 14 to 10%. Now the question is how accurate this item is and how realistically and realistically possible it is. From this revenue side, regarding a part of the budget that is not in the deficit, it's actually a kind of mathematics, a kind of political propaganda, to show that the state is something better than it is. This is especially seen in these items -- mixed and undefined incomes and non-tax revenue, where that, I say, permutation of the amount, harmonisation, so that the real part of the budget remained at 329,325,000 dinars. The budget deficit, which is decreasing, shows, and this is already explained, that one reason is the deficit and a reduced inflow of funds from privatisation. However, I do not see a budget rebalance of 3,700,000 on the basis of foreign donations. I see it says that loans and donations from international financial institutions amount to 8,600,000 dinars. If the Budget Law is looked at, that amount is 9,500,000 dinars, which says only one fact, that the state should be in debt, according to the budget's rebalancing, for 8,600,000 dinars and that donations have nothing. I am now asking the minister why there are no such donations, because the threat of these donations was the possible choice of Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Republic of Serbia, so both the minister and other members of the G17 party ran around Serbia and claimed that if Tomislav Nikolic wins, he has nothing to help us. Boris Tadic won, and in this budget rebalancing, there is still nothing we can do to help. When it comes to the story of agriculture and the increase in the amount of premiums for the purchase of wheat, it is true that Mr. Minister predicted 900,000 dinars more for the purchase of wheat, but from where he got the funds, he made it out of the budget, so that the spending party would remain the same. He has been pampered by the Veterinary Authority, where he has taken down 900,000 dinars from the projected amount - 2,800,000 dinars and transferred to wheat premiums. However, despite this transfer to the premiums for wheat, donations or donations, whatever you want to call them, subsidies in agriculture have been reduced by 1,400,000 dinars, counting these 900, which means somewhere around 2,300,000 dinars. Some of the items set up by the Budget Law have been completely deleted or reduced, so we do not now have in the budget, when it comes to agriculture, for example, the item - milk subsidies and industrial plants - 5,912,000,000; measures for improving and productivity of land - 660,800,000; measures to regulate agricultural land - 374.000; measures to encourage agricultural exports - 608,00.000. It's only increased, from two billion to 2,900,000, a premium for the purchase of wheat. Regretted fertilizer and fuel - they do not have 1,200,000; professional agricultural services - there are no 240,000,000 dinars; measures and actions in agriculture - there are no 74,000; subsidies for improving the village - there are no 70,000,000; measures for increasing the quality of milk - 450.000. Furthermore, agriculture and the Ministry of Trade were abolished the amount planned by two billion dinars for the purchase of wheat for the stocks, down to 1.220,000,000, which means that, according to the budget's rebalancing, agriculture was underprivileged, i.e. the amount of 3,300,000 dinars was taken away. The money was probably used to pay off those two billion to pay off the loan, or interest to the London Club. I agree that there is a need to be smartly available budget funds and savings, but let's see how this government, which inherited certain characteristics of the previous one, saves money. The Office for Association of the European Union needs 13.550,000 proposals to amend and supplement the Budget Law, i.e. rebalancing. The Office for Media Cooperation – 21,947,000 dinars, which is an item higher by about 1,300,000 dinars than is foreseen by the Budget Law. Council for Combating Corruption – 9.850,000. We have already heard analyses of certain international organisations dealing with corruption and claim that Serbia is at the top of the countries that are corrupt, so the question is where and how money of 9.850,000 is spent, whether to curb corruption or to increase it. The Commission for the Study of Human Rights - 1,400,000 dinars, and a law that was pointless and when the Budget Law was passed for 2004, we asked the question, what about this commission and whether it should work. The SRS submitted a request for amendments to the Lustration Act and for the law to finally be abolished, and for such pointless items, which can eventually be spent from the budget, to simply be abolished in the budget itself. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and then the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration – 2,588.000, Public Payments Administration – 1,700,835,210. It is one of the few authorities of the state administration whose only dinar of this rebalancing has not been taken away, and we believe that it is the work of the competent ministry, or the Ministry of Finance, and not of some parallel ministries that are constantly formed, both by the last government and by this government. We have a tobacco agency - 12,322,000, which needs to spend that money just because it's going to issue a license for a tobacco store on one sales facility, and it seems to me that it's 5,000 dinars per year, or one team of people who types such reports and that types such a solution, and it charges it and still draws out of the budget 12,000,000. We also have the Public Procurement Administration – 16.738,000 dinars, Diaspora Relations Agency – 1,903,000 and we have the Ministry of Diaspora Relations. We have the Energy Efficiency Agency – 2.226,000, and we also have the Ministry of Energy and Shadow Ministers when it comes to energy, Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, so I can say that one of the merits of G17 is that they are not still where they belong, and that is in prison. We have the Department for the Protection of the Environment 306,447,000, and we have the Environment Protection Agency 2,742,000 dinars, and we have the Recycling Agency, which also falls under that area, 16.697,000, and we have the competent Ministry of Ecology and Environmental Protection – 4.126,045,000 dinars. We have the Agency for Culture Development and the Ministry of Culture, and the Agency spends 1,430,000 dinars, and the Ministry of Culture spends 4.283,426,000 dinars, and of which it is intended for RTS 3,200,000 dinars. We have the Agency for the Development of Local Infrastructure and Local Self-Government – 2.278.000 and the Ministry of Local Self-Government. We have the Agency to promote exports, something is not going well with these exports and foreign investments here, but it is important that they spend 20,362,000 dinars, and we have for Nebojsa Covic and Oliver Ivanovic 1,650,000 dinars. Mr. Minister, you'd better get all this off the budget lines than you did to the military. We all know what the military is in, and I don't want to repeat this after this pay phone, I just wanted to show you that if there's a little bit of goodwill, if someone wants to make an effective and cheap state administration, they can do it by eradicating these items, and making a rebalancing and making up for all the commitments you've made with this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-14-0.u7032	Thank you very much. Time for today's work is up. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the urgency of this law that the Serbian Government has pointed to and because of its special importance, and which the president of the SRS parliamentary group and the mandated representative of the DS have been very keenly insisting on, on the basis of Article 81(4). Rules of Procedure, work tomorrow, resume from 10.00 hours. Thank you.
